A corrected inspection certificate may be issued by the inspector who issued the original certificate after distribution of a certificate if errors, such as incorrect dates, grade statements, lot or car numbers, identification marks, types of containers, sizes, weights, quantities, or errors in any other pertinent information require the issuance of a corrected certificate. Whenever a corrected certificate is issued, such certificate shall supersede the inspection certificate which was issued in error and the superseded certificate shall become null and void after the issuance of the corrected certificate.
§ 51.21
Disposition of inspection certificates.
(a) The original certificate, and not to exceed four copies (if requested by applicant prior to issuance), shall be delivered or mailed promptly to the applicant or to a person designated by him. One copy shall be delivered or mailed to the shipper of the inspected product. One copy shall be filed in the office of the inspector when the inspection is made by a Federal Government employee, otherwise, it shall be filed in the appropriate office of the cooperating Federal-State Inspection Agency. Unless otherwise directed by the Administrator, two copies of each official certificate issued on products received in destination markets shall be forwarded to the Administrator to be kept on file in Washington and no copies of official certificates issued at shipping point need be so forwarded. In the case of any product covered by a marketing agreement and/or order effective pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7
U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), at least one copy of each certificate covering the inspection of such product shall, on request, be delivered to the administrative agency established thereunder, subject to such terms and conditions as the Administrator may prescribe. Copies may be furnished to other interested parties as outlined in § 51.41.
(b) [Reserved]
[63 FR 15277, Mar. 31, 1998]
§ 51.22
Disposition of samples.
If it is necessary to take samples of the product to the inspection office for further examination, the inspector, after completion of inspection of such samples shall dispose of them or any usable portion as follows: (a) Ascertain from the applicant if the owner wants the samples returned to him at his expense, (b) if he does not want them returned at his expense, give them to a nonsectarian charitable organization or, (c) if they have a substantial monetary value, sell them and remit the proceeds to the Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250, or if applicable, to the cooperating State Agency. Such proceeds shall be deposited to the credit of the Inspection Trust Fund, Federal or cooperating agency, whichever is applicable.
§ 51.23
Report of inspection results prior to issuance of formal report.
Upon request of an applicant, all or any part of the contents of a certificate covering an inspection requested by him may be telegraphed or telephoned to him, or to any person designated by him, at his expense. If the application for such information is received after the certificate has been issued, it will be considered as an application for an extra copy of the certificate, and the fees prescribed in § 51.41 shall apply.

# Appeal Inspection
§ 51.24
When appeal inspection may be requested.
An application for appeal inspection may be made by any financially interested person who is dissatisfied with the results of an inspection as stated in an inspection certificate, if the lot can be positively identified by the Inspection Service as the lot which was previously inspected.
§ 51.25
Where to file for an appeal inspection and information required.
An appeal inspection may be obtained by the applicant, or other person financially interested in the product, by filing a request (a) with the Inspection Office nearest the point where the product is located, or (b) with the inspector who made the original inspection, or (c) with any district supervisory inspection office, or (d) with the Administrator. The application for the appeal inspection shall state the reasons therefor, and shall be accompanied by a copy of any previous inspection certificate or inspection report, and any other information which the applicant received regarding the quality or condition of the product at the time of the original inspection. Such application may be made orally (in person or by telephone), in writing, or by telegraph. If made orally, written confirmation shall be made promptly.
§ 51.26
Record of filing time.
A record showing the date and time of filing an application for appeal inspection shall be made promptly by the receiving office.
§ 51.27
When appeal inspection may be refused.
An application for an appeal inspection may be refused if: (a) The reasons for the appeal inspection are frivolous or not substantial; (b) the quality or condition of the product has undergone a material change since the inspection covering the product on which the appeal inspection is requested; (c) the lot in question is not, or cannot be, made accessible for the inspection; (d) the lot relative to which appeal inspection is requested cannot be identified positively by the inspector as the lot which was previously inspected; or (e) there is noncompliance with the regulations in this part. Such an applicant shall be notified promptly of the reason for refusal.
§ 51.28
When an application for an appeal inspection may be withdrawn.
An application for appeal inspection may be withdrawn by the applicant at
any time before the appeal inspection is performed:
Provided,
That the applicant shall pay any travel expenses, telephone, telegraph or other expenses which have been incurred by the Inspection Service in connection with such application.
§ 51.29
Order in which made.
Appeal inspections shall be made, as soon as practicable, following the time requested by the applicant and in the order in which applications are received. They shall take precedence over all other pending applications, except applications for inspections covering lots involved in complaints filed pursuant to the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, 1930 as amended (7 U.S.C. 499a
et seq.
).
§ 51.30
Who shall perform appeal inspections.
Appeal inspections shall be performed by an inspector or inspectors authorized for this purpose by the Administrator and whenever practical, such appeal inspections shall be made by two inspectors.
§ 51.31
Appeal inspection certificate.
After an appeal inspection has been completed, an appeal inspection certificate shall be issued showing the results of such appeal inspection; and such certificate shall supersede the inspection certificate previously issued for the product involved. Each appeal inspection certificate shall clearly identify the number and date of the inspection certificate which it supersedes. The superseded certificate shall become null and void upon the issuance of the appeal inspection certificate and shall no longer represent the quality described therein. The inspector or inspectors issuing an appeal inspection certificate shall sign the certificate and forward notice of such issuance to such persons as considered necessary to prevent misuse of the superseded certificate if the original and all copies of such superseded certificate have not previously been delivered to the inspector or inspectors issuing the appeal inspection certificate. The provisions in the regulations in this part concerning forms of certificates and issuance of certificates, shall apply to appeal inspection certificates, except that copies of such appeal inspection certificates shall be furnished all interested parties who receive copies of the superseded certificate.

# Licensing of Inspectors
§ 51.32
Who may be licensed.
Persons who are employed by a cooperative Federal-State Inspection Agency and possess adequate qualifications, as determined by such examinations as the Administrator may consider to be appropriate, may be licensed as inspectors of products which may be inspected under the regulations in this part. Such license shall bear the printed signature of the Secretary and shall be countersigned by an authorized employee of the Department. A licensed inspector shall perform his duties pursuant to the regulations in this subpart as directed by the Administrator.
§ 51.33
Application to become a licensed inspector.
Application to become a licensed inspector shall be made to the Administrator on forms furnished for that purpose. Each such application shall be filled in and signed by the applicant in his own handwriting, and the application shall contain or be accompanied by:
(a) A statement of present address, age, height, and weight of the applicant;
(b) A statement showing education and present and previous occupations, together with names of all employers for whom he has worked with periods of service, during the last 5 years previous to the date of his application;
(c) A statement by the applicant that he agrees to comply with all terms and conditions of the regulations in this part relating to the duties of inspectors; and
(d) Such other information as may be required by the Administrator.
§ 51.34
Suspension or revocation of license of a licensed inspector.
Pending final action by the Secretary, the Administrator may, whenever he deems such action necessary,
suspend the license of any licensed inspector issued pursuant to the regulations in this part by giving notice of such suspension to the respective licensee, accompanied by a statement of the reasons therefor. Within 10 days after the receipt of the aforesaid notice and statement of the reasons by such licensee, he may file an appeal, in writing, with the Secretary, supported by any argument or evidence that he may wish to offer as to why his license should not be suspended or revoked. After the expiration of the aforesaid 10-day period and consideration of such argument and evidence, the Secretary will take such action as he deems appropriate with respect to such suspension or revocation. When no appeal is filed within the prescribed 10 days, the license shall be automatically revoked.
§ 51.35
Surrender of license.
Upon termination of his services as a licensed inspector, or suspension or revocation of his license, a licensee shall surrender his license immediately to the office of inspection serving the area in which he is located. These same provisions shall apply in case of an expired license.
§ 51.36
Expiration and renewal of license.
An inspector's license issued pursuant to the regulations in this subpart shall expire on December 31 of each year in which it is issued. The license of an inspector may be renewed by the issuance of a new license and the renewal shall subject the inspector to the terms and conditions of the regulations of this subpart.
[37 FR 11313, June 7, 1972. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Schedule of Fees and Charges at Destination Markets
§ 51.37
Charges for fees, rates, and expenses.
For each carlot of product inspected, a fee or rate determined in accordance with §§ 51.38 and 51.39, and expenses determined in accordance with § 51.40, shall be paid by the applicant.
[56 FR 55800, Oct. 30, 1991]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.37 was revised, effective Jan. 29, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 51.37
Charges for fees, rates, and expenses.
For each carlot of product inspected, a fee or rate determined in accordance with §§ 51.38, 51.39, and 51.40, and expenses determined in accordance with § 51.41, shall be paid by the applicant.
§ 51.38
Basis for fees and rates.
(a) For each calendar year, AMS will calculate the rate for services, per hour per program employee using the following formulas:
(1)
Regular rate.
The total AMS inspection program personnel direct pay divided by direct hours, which is then multiplied by the next year's percentage of cost of living increase, plus the benefits rate, plus the operating rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate. If applicable, travel expenses may also be added to the cost of providing the service.
(2)
Overtime rate.
The total AMS inspection program personnel direct pay divided by direct hours, which is then multiplied by the next year's percentage of cost of living increase and then multiplied by 1.5 plus the benefits rate, plus the operating rate, plus an allowance for bad debt. If applicable, travel expenses may also be added to the cost of providing the service.
(3)
Holiday rate.
The total AMS inspection program personnel direct pay divided by direct hours which is then multiplied by the next year's percentage of cost of living increase and then multiplied by 2, plus benefits rate, plus the operating rate, plus an allowance for bad debt. If applicable, travel expenses may also be added to the cost of providing the service.
(b)(1) For each calendar year, based on previous fiscal year/historical actual costs, AMS will calculate the benefits, operating, and allowance for bad debt components of the regular, overtime and holiday rates as follows:
(i)
Benefits rate.
The total AMS inspection program direct benefits costs divided by the total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked, which is then multiplied by the next calendar
year's percentage cost of living increase. Some examples of direct benefits are health insurance, retirement, life insurance, and Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) retirement basic and matching contributions.
(ii)
Operating rate.
The total AMS inspection program operating costs divided by total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked, which is then multiplied by the percentage of inflation.
(iii)
Allowance for bad debt rate.
Total allowance for bad debt divided by total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked.
(2) The calendar year cost of living expenses and percentage of inflation factors used in the formulas in this section are based on the most recent Office of Management and Budget's Presidential Economic Assumptions.
(c) When an inspection is delayed because product is not available or readily accessible, a charge for waiting time shall be determined using the formulas in this section.
[79 FR 67320, Nov. 13, 2014]
§ 51.39
Fees for appeal inspections.
The fee to be charged to an applicant, including any Government agency, for appeal inspections on all products shall be at the same rate as those set forth in this part, except that when a material error is found in the determination of the original inspection, no fee will be charged.
[56 FR 55800, Oct. 30, 1991]
§ 51.39, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.39 was redesignated as § 51.40. In the same document, new § 51.39 was added, effective Jan. 29, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 51.39
Charges for fees and rates for 8e import inspection.
(a)
8e import inspection fees charged on a per-pound basis
—(1)
Establishing the per-pound inspection rate.
To compute the per-pound inspection rate, divide the current per-lot inspection fee for a full carlot (whole lot) by 40,000 (the generally accepted weight by pound of a full carlot).
(2)
Applying the per-pound rate.
The per-pound inspection rate shall be applied to the following lot sizes as follows:
(i) For a full carlot, multiply the per-pound rate by the total weight of the full carlot plus any applicable fees for additional lots of the same product as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) For lots less than a full carlot, multiply the per-pound rate by the total weight of the lot with a minimum fee equivalent to a 2-hour charge computed at the current established hourly rate, whichever is greater, plus any applicable fees for additional lots of the same product as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
8e import inspection fees charged on additional lots of the same product.
To compute the inspection fee for additional lots of the same product, multiply each additional lot by one-half of the current non-8e additional lot of the same product inspection fee.
§ 51.40
Traveling and other expenses.
Costs including travel incurred by the Agricultural Marketing Service in providing inspection service or appeal inspections may be charged to the applicant, including any Government agency. These charges shall be included with the fee for inspection on the bill furnished the applicant.
[56 FR 55800, Oct. 30, 1991]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.40 was redesignated as § 51.41, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.41
Fees for additional copies of inspection certificates.
Additional copies of any inspection certificate other than those copies provided for in § 51.21, or copies of official memoranda, may be mailed, faxed, or otherwise provided to any interested party upon payment of a fee of $5.00 for each copy.
[56 FR 55800, Oct. 30, 1991]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.41 was redesignated as § 51.42, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.42
Charges for inspection services on a contract basis.
Irrespective of fees and charges prescribed in the foregoing sections, the Administrator may enter into contracts with applicants to perform inspection services pursuant to the regulations in this part and other requirements as prescribed by the Administrator in such contract, and the charges for such inspection services provided for in such contracts shall be
on such basis as will reimburse the Agricultural Marketing Service of the Department for the full cost of conducting such inspection service, including an appropriate overhead charge to cover as nearly as practicable administrative overhead expenses, as may be determined by the Administrator.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.42 was redesignated as § 51.43, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.43
How fees shall be paid.
Fees shall be paid by the applicant in accordance with the directions on the fee bill furnished him by the billing office, and in advance, if required by the inspector.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.43 was redesignated as § 51.44, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.44
Disposition of fees.
(a) The fees collected for services rendered shall be disposed of as follows:
(1) Fees for inspections made by inspectors acting exclusively for the Agricultural Marketing Service shall be remitted promptly to the Agricultural Marketing Service.
(2) Fees for inspections made by an inspector acting under a cooperative agreement with a State or other organization shall be disposed of in accordance with the terms of such agreement. Such portion of the fees collected under a cooperative agreement with a State or other cooperating bodies as may be due the United States shall be remitted to the Agricultural Marketing Service.
(b) Fees and charges collected pursuant to §§ 51.40 to 51.41 shall be remitted to the Agricultural Marketing Service.
(c) Fees and charges collected pursuant to § 51.42 shall be disposed of in accordance with the terms of the contract.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.44 was redesignated as § 51.45, effective Jan. 29, 2025.

# Schedule of Fees and Charges at Shipping Point Areas
§ 51.45
Fees and charges at shipping point areas.
Fees for inspection performed under cooperative agreements pursuant to authority contained in any Act of Congress shall be those provided by such agreements.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.45 was redesignated as § 51.46, effective Jan. 29, 2025.

# Miscellaneous
§ 51.46
Denial of inspection service.
Any or all benefits of the act may be denied any person for any of the following reasons: (a) Any willful misrepresentation or deceptive or fraudulent practice made or committed by any person in connection with the making or filing of an application for inspection service; (b) any fradulent or unauthorized use, alteration, or imitation of any certificate issued pursuant to the regulations in this subpart; (c) any interference with or obstruction of any inspector or official sampler in the performance of his duties, by intimidation, threat, assault or any other improper means; or (d) any willful violation of the regulations in this subpart may be deemed sufficient cause for debarring the person found guilty thereof from any or all benefits of the acts, after notice and opportunity for hearing has been accorded him. The Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings Instituted by the Secretary Under Various Statutes set forth in §§ 1.130 through 1.151 of this title and the Supplemental Rules of Practice in part 50 of this chapter shall govern proceedings conducted pursuant to this section.
[32 FR 15066, Nov. 1, 1967. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 60 FR 8464, Feb. 14, 1995]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.46 was redesignated as § 51.47, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.47
Political activity.
All inspectors are forbidden, during the period of their respective appointments or while holding a valid inspectors' license to take an active part in political campaigns and a violation by a licensee shall constitute grounds for revocation of his license. All Federal employees are subject to the applicable
provisions of the Department's administrative regulations relating to political activity.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.47 was redesignated as § 51.48, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.48
Inspector's identification.
Each inspector shall have in his possession at all times, and present upon request, while on duty, the means of identification furnished by the Department to such person.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.48 was redesignated as § 51.49, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.49
Approved identifications.
(a)
Grade marks.
The approved shield mark with the appropriate U.S. grade designation may be used on containers, labels or otherwise indicated on the package when: (1) The product has been packed under continuous inspection as provided by the Inspection Service, (2) the plant in which the product is packed is maintained under good commercial sanitary practices, and (3) the product has been certified by an inspector as meeting the requirements of U.S. Grade A, U.S. Grade No. 1, or a higher U.S. grade as shown within the shield. The shields with approved grade designation for use shall be similar in form and design to the examples in figures 1 and 2 of this section.
EC02SE91.039
EC02SE91.040
(b)
Inspection legends.
The approved continuous inspection legends may be used on containers, labels or otherwise indicated on the package when: (1) The product has been packed under continuous inspection provided by the Inspection Service, (2) the plant in which the product is packed is maintained under good commercial sanitary practices, and (3) the product meets the requirements of such quality, grade, or specification as may be approved by the Administrator. The continuous inspection legends approved for use shall be similar in form and design to the examples in figures 3 and 4.
EC02SE91.041
EC02SE91.042
(c)
Combined grade and inspection legends.
The grade marks set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and illustrated by figures 1 and 2 of this section and the inspection legends set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and illustrated by figures 3 and 4 of paragraph (b) of this section may be combined into a consolidated grade and inspection legend for use on products which meet the requirements of both of these paragraphs. See figure 5.
EC02SE91.043
(d)
Packer identification.
The packer's name and address or assigned code number or other mark identifying the packer as may be approved by the Administrator, shall appear on any container bearing grade marks or inspection legends approved under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, as illustrated by the example in figure 6.
EC02SE91.044
(e)
Other identification marks.
Products may be inspected on a lot inspection basis as provided in this part and identified by an official inspection mark similar in form and design to figure 7 of this paragraph. The use of this mark or other comparable identification marks may be required by the Administrator whenever he determines that such identification is necessary in order to maintain the identity of lots which have been inspected and certified.
EC02SE91.045
[38 FR 7448, Mar. 22, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.49 was redesignated as § 51.50, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.50
Custody of official inspection marking devices.
All official inspection marking devices as shown in figure 6 of § 51.49 shall
be kept in the custody of the Agricultural Marketing Service and accurate records shall be kept of these devices. Each inspection office shall keep a record of the devices assigned to it. Such devices shall be distributed only to authorized employees of the Department who shall keep the devices in their official possession or control at all times and keep complete records of such devices.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.50 was redesignated as § 51.51, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.51
Prohibited uses of approved identification.
No label or advertising material used on, or in conjunction with any product, shall bear a brand name, trademark, product name or any other descriptive material that incorporates, resembles, simulates, or alludes to any official U.S. Department of Agriculture grade mark, grade statement, continuous inspection legend, sampling mark or sampling statement, or combination of one or more thereof.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.51 was redesignated as § 51.52, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.52
Licensing and identification of certain official devices.
The Administrator may issue licenses permitting the manufacture, identification, distribution, and sale of any official device designated as a USDA color standard, defect guide or other similar aid under such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Administrator. Licenses shall be available to all persons meeting conditions prescribed by the Administrator, shall be nonexclusive, and shall be revocable for cause. No person shall manufacture, identify, distribute or sell any such official device except at the direction of or under license from the Administrator. Such official devices may be marked, tagged or otherwise designated with the prefix “USDA” together with other identifying words or symbols, as prescribed by the license.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.52 was redesignated as § 51.53, effective Jan. 29, 2025.

# Requirements for Plants Operating Under Continuous Inspection on a Contract Basis
§ 51.53
Continuous inspections.
Continuous inspection service which is associated with the use of the approved shield showing the U.S. grade, the approved continuous inspection legend, or both, on the container may be furnished whenever inspectors are available, the facilities and conditions are satisfactory for the conduct of the service, and there is a signed contract between the applicant and the Department or a cooperative Federal-State Inspection Agency in which it is agreed that such service will be conducted subject to regulations governing the inspection and certification of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other products, contained in this part and any additional and supplemental instructions issued by the Department or such instructions issued by a cooperating agency which are not inconsistent with those issued by the Department.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.53 was redesignated as § 51.54, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.54
Plant survey.
Prior to the inauguration of continuous Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service on a contract basis, the Administrator will make or cause to be made a survey and inspection where such service is to be performed to determine whether the premises, plant and facilities are suitable and adequate for the performance of such service in accordance with the regulations in this part, including, but not limited to requirements contained in §§ 51.54 through 51.59.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.54 was redesignated as § 51.55, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.55
Premises.
The premises shall be free from conditions objectionable to packing operations, including, but not limited to litter, waste and refuse within the immediate vicinity of the plant buildings, excessively dusty roads, yards or parking lots, and poorly drained areas.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.55 was redesignated as § 51.56, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.56
Buildings and structures.
The packing plant buildings shall be properly constructed and maintained in a sanitary condition, including, but not limited to the following requirements:
(a) There shall be sufficient light consistent with the use to which the particular portion of the building is devoted and to permit efficient cleaning. The grading belts and bins shall be provided with sufficient proper nonglaring light to insure adequacy of grading and inspection operations;
(b) If the product is washed there shall be ample supply of water of a safe and sanitary quality with adequate facilities for its distribution throughout the plant and washing machinery;
(c) There shall also be an efficient waste disposal and plumbing system maintained in good repair;
(d) Each room in which the product is graded or stored shall be designed and constructed as to insure operating conditions of a clean and orderly character and shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary manner; and,
(e) Every practical precaution shall be taken to exclude dogs, cats, rodents and other vermin from the rooms in which the products are to be graded or stored.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.56 was redesignated as § 51.57, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.57
Facilities.
Each packing plant shall be equipped with adequate sanitary facilities and accommodations, including but not being limited to the following:
(a) There shall be a sufficient number of adequately lighted toilet rooms, ample in size and conveniently located. Toilet rooms shall be adequately screened and equipped with self-closing doors, and shall have independent outside ventilation;
(b) Adequate lavatory accommodations and supplies shall be placed at such locations in or near toilet rooms as to insure the cleanliness of each person who grades or handles the product to be inspected; and
(c) Suitable facilities for cleaning shall be provided at convenient locations in the plant.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.57 was redesignated as § 51.58, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.58
Equipment.
All equipment used for receiving, washing, grading, packaging or storing shall be of such design, material and construction that it may be kept clean.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.58 was redesignated as § 51.59, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.59
Operations and operating procedures.
(a) The inspector shall refuse to permit the use of the official shield with grade mark or continuous inspection legend on packages if the produce is from a field or orchard having a disease or other condition which may not be apparent on individual specimens at packing time but which may cause the product to materially decrease in quality after packing.
(b) All products which are certified shall be subjected to continuous inspection throughout the packing operations.
(c) The inspectors are available for consultation purposes but shall not become involved in plant operations.
(d) The Inspection Service will not be responsible for damages occurring through any act of commission or omission on the part of its inspectors when engaged in rendering continuous inspection service; for packing errors or misbranding of products; or for failure to supply enough inspectors during any period of service provided under the contract.
(e) The applicant for continuous inspection shall:
(1) Conform to all applicable regulations under which the continuous inspection service is conducted.
(2) Use only raw material which has been handled or stored under conditions which insures its suitability for packing; maintain the plant designated herein in such sanitary condition and to employ such methods of handling raw materials for packing as may be necessary to conform to the sanitary requirements prescribed in this part.
(3) Not permit any of his marks or labels or buyers' and distributors' marks or labels applied by him on which reference is made to continuous inspection to be used on any product not packed under this continuous inspection service; or permit any of his marks or labels or buyers' and distributors' marks or labels applied by him on which reference is made to any U.S. Grade to be used on any product which does not meet the requirements of such grade; or to supply labels bearing reference to continuous inspection service to another plant unless the products to which such labels are to be applied have been packed under continuous inspection.
(4) Furnish any reports of packaging and output of products inspected, as may be requested by the inspection agencies.
(5) Make available to inspectors adequate office space in the designated plant and furnish suitable desks and office equipment for the proper care of inspection records.
(6) Make his laboratory or other facilities and necessary equipment available for the use of inspectors in making inspection of samples.
(7) Furnish if required, such stenographic and clerical assistance as may be necessary in the typing of certificates and reports and the handling of official correspondence, as well as the labor incident to drawing of samples and facilitating adequate inspection procedure when necessary.
(8) Submit to the Chief of the Fresh Products Standardization and Inspection Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, for approval prior to printing, drawings or printers' proofs of each packer's or distributor's label bearing or referring in any manner to official inspection legends or grade marks.
(9) Not make deceptive, fraudulent, or unauthorized use in his advertising, or otherwise, of the continuous inspection service, the inspection certificates or reports issued, or the containers on which the shield of the Department is identified, in connection with the sale of any of the packaged products; and to submit to the Agricultural Marketing Service through the inspector assigned to the plant or other representative of the Inspection Service, for approval to use any proposed advertising in which reference is made to the Inspection Service.
[32 FR 15066, Nov. 1, 1967, as amended at 38 FR 7448, Mar. 22, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.59 was redesignated as § 51.60, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.60
Termination of contracts.
In case the applicant wishes to terminate the contract he agrees either to continue the service until all unused containers, labels and advertising material on hand or in the possession of his supplier bearing the Department shield, or reference to continuous inspection service have been used, or to destroy such containers, labels and advertising material, or to obliterate the Department shield and all other reference to the continuous inspection service on said containers, labels, and advertising material, or otherwise furnish assurance satisfactory to the Agricultural Marketing Service that such containers, labels and advertising material will not be used in violation of the terms and conditions of this agreement. In case the continuous inspection service is terminated for cause by the Agricultural Marketing Service, the applicant agrees to destroy all unused containers, labels and advertising material on hand bearing the Department shield, or reference to continuous inspection service, or to obliterate the Department shield, and all reference to the continuous inspection service on said containers, labels and advertising material or otherwise furnish assurance satisfactory to the Agricultural Marketing Service that such containers, labels and advertising material will not be used in violation of the terms and conditions of the agreement.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.60 was redesignated as § 51.61, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.61
Congressional interest in contracts.
No member of, or delegate to Congress, or Resident Commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or part of any
contract provided for in the regulations in this subpart or to any benefit that may arise therefrom, but this provision shall not be construed to extend to such contract if made with a corporation for its general benefit, and shall not extend to any benefits that may accrue from the contract to a member of, or delegate to Congress, or a Resident Commissioner in his capacity as a farmer.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.61 was redesignated as § 51.62, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 51.62
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB Control No. 0581-0125.
(44 U.S.C. Chap. 35)
[49 FR 23826, June 8, 1984]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106234, Dec. 30, 2024, § 51.62 was redesignated as § 51.63, effective Jan. 29, 2025.

# Subpart B—United States Standards for Grades of Apples

# Source:
67 FR 69663, Nov. 19, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.300
U.S. Extra Fancy.
“U.S. Extra Fancy” consists of apples of one variety (except when more than one variety is printed on the container) which are mature but not overripe, clean, fairly well formed, free from decay, internal browning, internal breakdown, soft scald, scab, freezing injury, visible watercore, and broken skins. The apples are also free from injury caused by bruises, brown surface discoloration, smooth net-like russeting, sunburn or sprayburn, limb rubs, hail, drought spots, scars, disease, insects, or other means. The apples are free from damage caused by bitter pit or Jonathan spot and by smooth solid, slightly rough or rough russeting, or stem or calyx cracks, as well as damage by invisible watercore after January 31st of the year following the year of production except for the Fuji variety of apples. Invisible watercore and smooth net-like russeting shall not be scored against the Fuji variety of apples under any circumstances. For the apple varieties listed in table 1 of § 51.305, each apple of this grade has the amount of color specified for the variety. (See §§ 51.305 and 51.306.)
[84 FR 51941, Oct. 1, 2019]
§ 51.301
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of apples of one variety (except when more than one variety is printed on the container) which are mature but not overripe, clean, fairly well formed, and free from decay, internal browning, internal breakdown, soft scald, freezing injury, visible watercore, and broken skins. The apples are also free from damage caused by bruises, brown surface discoloration, russeting, sunburn or sprayburn, limb rubs, hail, drought spots, scars, stem or calyx cracks, disease, insects, bitter pit, Jonathan spot, or damage by other means, or invisible watercore after January 31st of the year following the year of production, except for the Fuji variety of apples. Invisible watercore and smooth net-like russeting shall not be scored against the Fuji variety of apples under any circumstances. For the apple varieties listed in table 1 of § 51.305, each apple of this grade has the amount of color specified for the variety. (See §§ 51.305 and 51.306.)
[84 FR 51941, Oct. 1, 2019]
§ 51.302
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of apples which meet the requirements of U.S. Fancy grade except for color, russeting, and invisible water core. In this grade, less color is required for all varieties listed in table 1 of § 51.305. Apples of this grade are free from excessive damage caused by russeting which means that apples meet the russeting requirements for U.S. Fancy as defined under the definitions of “damage by russeting,” except the aggregate area of an apple which may be covered by smooth net-like russeting shall not exceed 25 percent; and the aggregate area of an
apple which may be covered by smooth solid russeting shall not exceed 10 percent:
Provided,
That, in the case of the Yellow Newtown or similar varieties, the aggregate area of an apple which may be covered with smooth solid russeting shall not exceed 20 percent; and that smooth net-like russeting shall not be scored against the Fuji variety under any circumstances. Each apple of this grade has the amount of color specified in § 51.305 for the variety. Invisible watercore shall not be scored in this grade. (See §§ 51.305 and 51.306.)
(a)
U.S. No. 1 Hail:
“U.S. No. 1 Hail” consists of apples which meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade except that hail marks where the skin has not been broken and well healed hail marks where the skin has been broken, are permitted, provided the apples are fairly well formed. (
See
§§ 51.305 and 51.306.)
(b) [Reserved]
[67 FR 69663, Nov. 19, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 51941, Oct. 1, 2019]
§ 51.303
U.S. Utility.
“U.S. Utility” consists of apples of one variety (except when more than one variety is printed on the container) which are mature but not overripe, not seriously deformed and free from decay, internal browning, internal breakdown, soft scald, and freezing injury. The apples are also free from serious damage caused by dirt or other foreign matter, broken skins, bruises, brown surface discoloration, russeting, sunburn or sprayburn, limb rubs, hail, drought spots, scars, stem or calyx cracks, visible water core, bitter pit or Jonathan spot, disease, insects, or other means. (
See
§ 51.306.)
§ 51.304
Combination grades.
(a) Combinations of the above grades may be used as follows:
(1) Combination U.S. Extra Fancy and U.S. Fancy;
(2) Combination U.S. Fancy and U.S. No. 1; and
(3) Combination U.S. No. 1 and U.S. Utility.
(b) Combinations other than these are not permitted in connection with the U.S. apple grades. When Combination grades are packed, at least 50 percent of the apples in any lot shall meet the requirements of the higher grade in the combination. (
See
§ 51.306.)

# Color Requirements
§ 51.305
Color requirements.
(a) In addition to the requirements specified for the grades set forth in §§ 51.300 through 51.304, apples of these grades shall have the percentage of color specified for the variety in table 1 of this section. All apple varieties other than those appearing in table 1 of this section shall have no color requirements pertaining to these grades. For the solid red varieties, the percentage stated refers to the area of the surface which must be covered with a good shade of solid red characteristic of the variety:
Provided,
That an apple having color of a lighter shade of solid red or striped red than that considered as a good shade of red characteristic of the variety may be admitted to a grade, provided it has sufficient additional area covered so that the apple has as good an appearance as one with the minimum percentage of good red characteristic of the variety required for the grade. For the striped red varieties, the percentage stated refers to the area of the surface in which the stripes of a good shade of red characteristic of the variety shall predominate over stripes of lighter red, green, or yellow. However, an apple having color of a lighter shade than that considered as a good shade of red characteristic of the variety may be admitted to a grade, provided it has sufficient additional area covered so that the apple has as good an appearance as one with the minimum percentage of stripes of a good red characteristic of the variety required for the grade. Faded brown stripes shall not be considered as color.
(b) Color standards USDA Visual Aid APL-CC-1 (Plates a-e) consists of a folder containing the color requirements for apples set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and five plates illustrating minimum good shade of solid red or striped red color, minimum compensating color and shade not considered color, for the following 12 varieties: Red Delicious, Red Rome, Empire, Idared, Winesap, Jonathan, Stayman, McIntosh, Cortland, Rome Beauty, Delicious, and York. The color
standards are available for purchase at
http://www.ams.usda.gov.
Table 1
1
[Only the varieties listed below shall be required to meet a minimum color requirement]
Variety
U.S. extra fancy
(Percent)
U.S. fancy
(Percent)
U.S. No. 1
(Percent)
Red Delicious
66
40
25
Red Rome
66
40
25
Empire
66
40
25
Idared
66
40
25
Winesap
66
40
25
Jonathan
66
40
25
Stayman
50
33
25
McIntosh
50
33
25
Cortland
50
33
25
Rome Beauty
50
33
25
Delicious
50
33
25
York
50
33
25
1
Variations on varietal designations listed above must meet or exceed those color requirements listed.
[67 FR 69663, Nov. 19, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 51941, Oct. 1, 2019]

# Tolerances
§ 51.306
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the grades in 51.300, 51.301, 51.302, 51.303, and 51.304 the following tolerances are provided as specified:
(a)
Defects:
(1) U.S. Extra Fancy, U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1, and U.S. No. 1 Hail grades: 10 percent of the apples in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade, but not more than one-half of this amount, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for apples which are seriously damaged, including therein not more than 1 percent for apples affected by decay or internal breakdown.
(2)
U.S. Utility grade:
10 percent of the apples in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade, but not more than one-half of this amount, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for apples which are seriously damaged by insects, and including in the total tolerance not more than 1 percent for apples affected by decay or internal breakdown.
(b) When applying the foregoing tolerances to Combination grades, no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce, for the lot as a whole, the 50 percent of apples of the higher grade required in the combination, but individual containers shall have not less than 40 percent of the higher grade.
(c)
Size:
When size is designated by the numerical count for a container, not more than 10 percent of packages in the lot may fail to be fairly uniform.
1
When size is designated by minimum or maximum diameter, not more than 5 percent of the apples in any lot may be smaller than the designated minimum, and not more than 10 percent may be larger than the designated maximum. For Red Delicious or Golden Delicious varieties only, a combination of minimum diameter and/or weight may be used. When this designation is used, an individual apple will be considered to have met the minimum size requirement even if the apple is smaller than the minimum diameter, provided it is equal to or greater than the weight provided in table II of this section. However, not more than 5 percent of the apples in any lot may fail to meet either the minimum diameter or minimum weight when so designated. In addition, when Red Delicious or Golden Delicious apples are designated with diameter/weight combinations, they may only be designated according to the following table:
1
“Fairly uniform” means the size of the fruit within the container does not vary more than
1/2
inch diameter from the smallest to largest fruit.
Table II
Red delicious
Golden delicious
2
1/8
inches or 65 grams
63 grams
2
1/4
inches or 75 grams
70 grams
2
3/8
inches or 84 grams
82 grams
2
1/2
inches or 100 grams
95 grams
2
5/8
inches or 115 grams
109 grams
2
3/4
inches or 139 grams
134 grams

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.307
Application of tolerances.
The contents of individual packages in the lot, are subject to the following limitations:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade:
(a) Packages which contain more than 10 pounds:
(1) Shall have not more than one and one-half times a specified tolerance of 10 percent or more and not more than
double a tolerance of less than 10 percent, except that at least one apple which is seriously damaged by insects or affected by decay or internal breakdown may be permitted in any package.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) Packages which contain 10 pounds or less:
(1) No package may have more than 3 times the tolerance specified, except that at least three defective apples may be permitted in any package:
Provided,
That not more than three apples or more than 18 percent (whichever is the larger amount) may be seriously damaged by insects or affected by decay or internal breakdown.
(2) [Reserved]

# Methods of Sampling and Calculation of Percentages
§ 51.308
Methods of sampling and calculation of percentages.
(a) When the numerical count is marked on the container, containers are packed to weigh ten pounds or less, or in any container where the minimum diameter of the smallest apple does not vary more than
1/2
inch from the minimum diameter of the largest apple, percentages shall be calculated on the basis of count.
(b) In all other cases except those listed in paragraph (a) of this section, they shall be calculated on the basis of weight.

# Condition After Storage or Transit
§ 51.309
Condition after storage or transit.
Decay, scald, or any other deterioration which may have developed on apples after they have been in storage or transit shall be considered as affecting condition and not the grade.

# Packing Requirements
§ 51.310
Packing requirements.
(a) Apples tray packed or cell packed in cartons shall be arranged according to approved and recognized methods. Packs shall be at least fairly tight
2
or fairly well filled.
3
2
“Fairly tight” means that apples are of the proper size for molds or cell compartments in which they are packed, and that molds or cells are filled in such a way that no more than slight movement of apples within molds or cells is possible.
3
“Fairly well filled” means that the net weight of apples in containers ranging from 2,100 to 2,900 cubic inch capacity is not less than 37 pounds for Cortland, Gravenstein, Jonathan, McIntosh and Golden Delicious varieties and not less than 40 pounds for all other varieties.
(b) Closed cartons containing apples not tray or cell packed shall be fairly well filled or the pack shall be sufficiently tight to prevent any appreciable movement of the apples.
(c) Packs in wooden boxes or baskets shall be sufficiently tight to prevent any appreciable movement of apples within containers when the packages are closed. Each wrapped apple shall be completely enclosed by its individual wrapper.
(d) Apples on the shown face of any container shall be reasonably representative in size, color and quality of the contents.
(e) Tolerances: In order to allow for variations incident to proper packing, not more than 10 percent of the containers in any lot may fail to meet these requirements.

# Marking Requirements
§ 51.311
Marking requirements.
Variety (or varieties if more than one is packed in the container), grade, and the numerical count or minimum diameter of apples packed in a closed container shall be indicated on the container. For apple lots utilizing the combined diameter/weight designations for Red Delicious and Golden Delicious varieties, the minimum diameter and minimum weight of apples packed in a closed container shall be indicated on the container.
(a) When the numerical count is not shown, the minimum diameter or, in the case of Red Delicious or Golden Delicious lots where minimum diameter/weight designations have been chosen, the minimum diameter and weight as designated in table II, shall be plainly stamped, stenciled or otherwise
marked on the container in terms of whole inches, or whole inches and not less than eighth inch fractions thereof in the following manner: “A” inches or “B” grams, where “A” corresponds to one of the diameter measurements in terms of inches listed in table II and “B” corresponds to the weight measurement in grams as indicated in table II. Both diameter and weight must be shown using the word “or” between the given measurements.
(b) The word “minimum,” or its abbreviation, when following a diameter size marking, means that the apples are of the size marked or larger. (
See
§§ 51.306 and 51.307.)

# Definitions
§ 51.312
Mature.
“Mature”
means that the apples have reached the stage of development which will insure the proper completion of the ripening process. Before a mature apple becomes overripe it will show varying degrees of firmness, depending upon the stage of the ripening process. The following terms are used for describing different stages of firmness of apples:
(a)
“Hard”
means apples with a tenacious flesh and starchy flavor.
(b)
“Firm”
means apples with a tenacious flesh but which are becoming crisp with a slightly starchy flavor, except the Delicious variety.
(c)
“Firm ripe”
means apples with crisp flesh except that the flesh of the Gano, Ben Davis, and Rome Beauty varieties may be slightly mealy.
(d)
“Ripe”
means apples with mealy flesh and soon to become soft for the variety.
§ 51.313
Overripe.
“Overripe”
means apples which have progressed beyond the stage of ripe, with flesh very mealy or soft, and past commercial utility.
§ 51.314
Clean.
“Clean”
means that the apples are free from excessive dirt, dust, spray residue, and other foreign material.
§ 51.315
Fairly well formed.
“Fairly well formed”
means that the apple may be slightly abnormal in shape but not to an extent which detracts materially from its appearance.
§ 51.316
Injury.
“Injury”
means any specific defect defined in this section or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which more than slightly detract from the appearance or the edible or shipping quality of the apple. In addition, specific defect measurements are based on an apple three inches in diameter. Corresponding smaller or larger areas would be allowed on smaller or larger fruit. Any reference to
“inch”
or
“inches in diameter”
refers to that of a circle of the specified diameter. Any reference to
“aggregate area,” “total area,”
or
“aggregate affected area”
means the gathering together of separate areas into one mass for the purpose of comparison to determine the extent affected. The following specific defects shall be considered as injury:
(a) Russeting in the stem cavity or calyx basin which cannot be seen when the apple is placed stem end or calyx end down on a flat surface shall not be considered in determining whether an apple is injured by russeting. Smooth net-like russeting outside of the stem cavity or calyx basin shall be considered as injury when an aggregate area of more than 10 percent of the surface is covered, and the color of the russeting shows no very pronounced contrast with the background color of the apple, or lesser amounts of more conspicuous net-like russeting when the appearance is affected to a greater extent than the amount permitted above.
(b) Sunburn or sprayburn, when the discolored area does not blend into the normal color of the fruit.
(c) Dark brown or black limb rubs which affect a total area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter, except that light brown limb rubs of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of injury by russeting.
(d) Hail marks, drought spots, other similar depressions or scars:
(1) When the skin is broken, whether healed or unhealed;
(2) When there is appreciable discoloration of the surface;
(3) When any surface indentation exceeds one-sixteenth inch in depth;
(4) When any surface indentation exceeds one-eighth inch in diameter; or
(5) When the aggregate affected area of such spots exceeds one-half inch in diameter.
(e) Bruises which are not slight and incident to proper handling and packing, and which are greater than:
(1)
1/8
inch in depth;
(2)
5/8
inch in diameter;
(3) any combination of lesser bruises which detract from the appearance or edible quality of the apple to an extent greater than any one bruise described in paragraphs (e)(1) or (2) of this section.
(f) Brown surface discoloration when caused by delayed sunburn, surface scald, or any other means and affects an area greater than
1/4
inch in diameter.
(g) Disease: (1) Cedar rust infection which affects a total area of more than three-sixteenths inch in diameter.
(2) Sooty blotch or fly speck which is thinly scattered over more than 5 percent of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.
(3) Red skin spots which are thinly scattered over more than one-tenth of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.
(h) Insects: (1) Any healed sting or healed stings which affect a total area of more than one-eighth inch in diameter including any encircling discolored rings.
(2) Worm holes.
[67 FR 69663, Nov. 19, 2002; 67 FR 79516, Dec. 30, 2002]
§ 51.317
Damage.
“
Damage
” means any specific defect defined in this section or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detract from the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the apple. In addition, specific defect measurements are based on an apple three inches in diameter. Corresponding smaller or larger areas would be allowed on smaller or larger fruit. Any reference to “
inch
” or “
inches in diameter
” refers to that of a circle of the specified diameter. Any reference to “
aggregate area,
” “
total area,
” or “
aggregate affected area
” means the gathering together of separate areas into one mass for the purpose of comparison to determine the extent affected. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Russeting in the stem cavity or calyx basin which cannot be seen when the apple is placed stem end or calyx end down on a flat surface shall not be considered in determining whether an apple is damaged by russeting, except that excessively rough or bark-like russeting in the stem cavity or calyx basin shall be considered as damage when the appearance of the apple is materially affected. The following types and amounts of russeting outside of the stem cavity or calyx basin shall be considered as damage:
(1) Russeting which is excessively rough on Roxbury Russet and other similar varieties.
(2) Smooth net-like russeting, when an aggregate area of more than 15 percent of the surface is covered, and the color of the russeting shows no very pronounced contrast with the background color of the apple, or lesser amounts of more conspicuous net-like russeting when the appearance is affected to a greater extent than the amount permitted above.
(3) Smooth solid russeting, when an aggregate area of more than 5 percent of the surface is covered, and the pattern and color of the russeting shows no very pronounced contrast with the background color of the apple, or lesser amounts of more conspicuous solid russeting when the appearance is affected to a greater extent than the above amount permitted.
(4) Slightly rough russeting which covers an aggregate area of more than one-half inch in diameter.
(5) Rough russeting which covers an aggregate area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.
(b) Sunburn or sprayburn which has caused blistering or cracking of the skin, or when the discolored area does not blend into the normal color of the fruit unless the injury can be classed as russeting.
(c) Limb rubs which affect a total area of more than one-half inch in diameter, except that light brown limb rubs of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of damage by russeting.
(d) Hail marks, drought spots, other similar depressions, or scars:
(1) When any unhealed mark is present;
(2) When any surface indentation exceeds one-eighth inch in depth;
(3) When the skin has not been broken and the aggregate affected area exceeds one-half inch in diameter; or
(4) When the skin has been broken and well healed, and the aggregate affected area exceeds one-fourth inch in diameter.
(e) Stem or calyx cracks which are not well healed, or well healed stem or calyx cracks which exceed an aggregate length of one-fourth inch.
(f) Invisible water core existing around the core and extending to water core in the vascular bundles, or surrounding the vascular bundles when the affected areas surrounding three or more vascular bundles meet or coalesce, or existing in more than a slight degree outside the circular area formed by the vascular bundles.
Provided,
That invisible water core shall not be scored as damage against the Fuji variety of apples under any circumstances.
(g) Bruises which are not slight and incident to proper handling and packing, and which are greater than:
(1)
3/16
inch in depth;
(2)
7/8
inch in diameter;
(3) any combination of lesser bruises which detract from the appearance or edible quality of the apple to an extent greater than any one bruise described in paragraphs (g)(1) or (2) of this section.
(h) Brown surface discoloration when caused by delayed sunburn, surface scald, or any other means and affects an area greater than
1/2
inch in diameter.
(i) Disease: (1) Scab spots which affect a total area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.
(2) Cedar rust infection which affects a total area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.
(3) Sooty blotch or fly speck which is thinly scattered over more than one-tenth of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than one-half inch in diameter.
(4) Red skin spots which are thinly scattered over more than one-tenth of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than one-half inch in diameter.
(5) Bitter pit or Jonathan spot when one or more spots affects the surface of the apple.
(j) Insects: (1) Any healed sting or healed stings which affect a total area of more than three-sixteenths inch in diameter including any encircling discolored rings.
(2) Worm holes.
[67 FR 69663, Nov. 19, 2002; 67 FR 79517, Dec. 30, 2002]
§ 51.318
Serious damage.
“Serious damage”
means any specific defect defined in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects which seriously detract from the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the apple. In addition, specific defect measurements are based on an apple three inches in diameter. Corresponding smaller or larger areas would be allowed on smaller or larger fruit. Any reference to “inch” or “inches in diameter” refers to that of a circle of the specified diameter. Any reference to “aggregate area,” “total area,” or “aggregate affected area” means the gathering together of separate areas into one mass for the purpose of comparison to determine the extent affected. The following specific defects shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) The following types and amounts of russeting shall be considered as serious damage:
(1) Smooth solid russeting, when more than one-half of the surface in the aggregate is covered, including any russeting in the stem cavity or calyx basin, or slightly rough, or excessively rough or bark-like russeting, which detracts from the appearance of the fruit to a greater extent than the amount of smooth solid russeting permitted:
Provided,
That any amount of russeting shall be permitted on Roxbury Russet and other similar varieties.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) Sunburn or sprayburn which seriously detracts from the appearance of the fruit.
(c) Limb rubs which affect more than one-tenth of the surface in the aggregate.
(d) Hail marks, drought spots, or scars, if they materially deform or disfigure the fruit, or if such defects affect more than one-tenth of the surface in the aggregate:
Provided,
That no hail marks which are unhealed shall be permitted and not more than an aggregate area of one-half inch shall be allowed for well healed hail marks where the skin has been broken.
(e) Stem or calyx cracks which are not well healed, or well healed stem or calyx cracks which exceed an aggregate length of one-half inch.
(f) Visible water core which affects an area of more than one-half inch in diameter.
(g)
Disease:
(1) Scab spots which affect a total area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter.
(2) Cedar rust infection which affects a total area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter.
(3) Sooty blotch or fly speck which affects more than one-third of the surface.
(4) Red skin spots which affect more than one-third of the surface.
(5) Bitter pit or Jonathan spot which is thinly scattered over more than one-tenth of the surface.
(h)
Insects:
(1) Healed stings which affect a total area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter including any encircling discolored rings.
(2) Worm holes.
(i) Bruises which are not slight and incident to proper handling and packing, and which are greater than:
(1)
3/8
inch in depth;
(2) 1
1/8
inches in diameter;
(3) any combination of lesser bruises which detract from the appearance or edible quality of the apple to an extent greater than any one bruise described in paragraph (i)(1) or (2) of this section.
(j) Brown surface discoloration when caused by delayed sunburn, surface scald, or any other means and affects an area greater than
3/4
inch in diameter.
§ 51.319
Seriously deformed.
“Seriously deformed”
means that the apple is so badly misshapen that its appearance is seriously affected.
§ 51.320
Diameter.
When measuring for minimum size, “diameter” means the greatest dimension of the apple measured at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end. When measuring for maximum size, “diameter” means the smallest dimension of the apple determined by passing the apple through a round opening in any position.

# U.S. Condition Standards for Export
§ 51.321
U.S. Condition Standards for Export.
4
4
These standards may be applied to domestic shipments of apples as well as export lots, and may be referred to as “U.S. Condition Standards.”
(a) Not more than 5 percent of the apples in any lot shall be further advanced in maturity than firm ripe.
(b) Not more than 5 percent of the apples in any lot shall be damaged by storage scab.
(c) Not more than a total of 5 percent of the apples in any lot shall be affected by scald, internal breakdown, freezing injury, or decay; or damaged by bitter pit, Jonathan spot, water core
5
except that invisible water core shall not be scored as damage when these condition standards are applied to the Fuji variety of apples, or other condition factors:
Provided,
That:
5
“Damage by water core” means externally invisible water core existing around the core and extending to water core in the vascular bundles, or surrounding the vascular bundles when the affected areas surrounding three or more vascular bundles meet or coalesce, or existing in more than slight degree outside the circular area formed by the vascular bundles, or any externally visible water core.
(1) Not more than a total of 2 percent shall be allowed for apples affected by decay and soft scald;
(2) Not more than 2 percent shall be allowed for apples affected by internal breakdown;
(d) Container packs shall comply with packing requirements specified in
§ 51.310 of the United States Standards for Grades of Apples.
(e) Any lot of apples shall be considered as meeting the U.S. Condition Standards for Export if the entire lot averages within the requirements specified:
Provided,
That no package in any lot shall have more than double the percentages specified, except that for packages which contain 10 pounds or less, individual packages in any lot may have not more than three times the tolerance or three apples (whichever is the greater amount).

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.322
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters
(mm)
1/16
equals
1.6
1/8
equals
3.2
3/16
equals
4.8
1/4
equals
6.4
3/8
equals
9.5
1/2
equals
12.7
5/8
equals
15.9
3/4
equals
19.1
7/8
equals
22.2
1
1/8
equals
28.6
2
1/8
equals
54.0
2
1/4
equals
57.2
2
3/8
equals
60.3
2
1/2
equals
63.5
2
3/4
equals
69.9
Cubic Inches
Cubic Centimeters (cc)
2100 equals
34,412.7
2900 equals
47,522.3
Pounds
Grams (g)
10 equals
4,536.0
37 equals
16,783.2
40 equals
18,144.0

# Subpart C—United States Standards for Grades of Apples for Processing

# Source:
26 FR 3604, Apr. 27, 1961, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.340
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of apples of one variety, unless designated as mixed varieties, which are not overripe, which are free from decay, worm holes, freezing injury and internal breakdown and free from any other defect, or combination of defects, the removal of which in the usual commercial preparation for use will cause a loss of more than 5 percent, by weight, of the apple.
§ 51.341
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of apples of one variety, unless designated as mixed varieties, which are not overripe, which are free from decay, worm holes, freezing injury and internal breakdown and free from any other defect, or combination of defects, the removal of which in the usual commercial preparation for use will cause a loss of more than 12 percent, by weight, of the apple.
§ 51.342
U.S. Cider.
“U.S. Cider” consists of apples which are free from decay, worm holes and internal breakdown.

# Culls
§ 51.343
Culls.
“Culls” consist of apples which fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Cider Grade.

# Size
§ 51.344
Size.
(a) The minimum and maximum sizes or range of sizes shall be determined as agreed upon by buyer and seller.
(b) Unless otherwise specified, the minimum and maximum sizes or range of sizes shall be determined by the use of an approved sizing chain of the exact dimension specified in the agreement between buyer and seller.
(c) Size is the dimension of the apples determined by the smallest opening through which it will pass.

# Application of Standards
§ 51.345
Application of standards.
(a) When a lot of apples is required to meet a specific U.S. grade, the tolerances as set forth in § 51.346 shall apply. When packed in closed packages the application of tolerances in § 51.347 shall apply. The application of tolerances shall not apply to apples in open or bulk containers.
(b) In the application of these standards to determine the percentage of the lot which meets the requirements of each of the grades, tolerances shall not apply.

# Tolerances
§ 51.346
Tolerances.
When a lot of apples is required to meet one of the U.S. grades, the apples shall not be further advanced in maturity than generally firm ripe, and the following tolerances, by weight, shall apply:
(a)
For defects.
10 percent for apples which fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(1) 2 percent for apples which are affected by decay;
(2) 2 percent for apples which are affected by internal breakdown; and,
(3) 5 percent for apples which are affected by worm holes.
(b)
For off-size.
5 percent for apples which are smaller than any specified minimum size, and 10 percent for apples larger than any specified maximum size.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.347
Application of tolerances.
Apples in closed packages are subject to the following limitations provided the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade:
(a) For a tolerance of 10 percent, individual packages shall have not more than one and one-half times the tolerance specified. For a tolerance of less than 10 percent, individual packages shall have not more than double the tolerances specified.

# Definitions
§ 51.348
One variety.
One variety
within the meaning of these standards shall include all bud sports and strains of the specified variety.
§ 51.349
Overripe.
Overripe
means apples which are dead ripe, and with flesh very mealy or soft.

# Subpart D—Application of Tolerances

# Source:
34 FR 13905, Aug. 30, 1969, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.620
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of grapefruit which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-tenth of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.638.);
(2) Firm;
(3) Mature;
(4) Similar varietal characteristics;
(5) Smooth texture;
(6) Well formed; and
(7) Well colored.
(b) Free from:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Decay;
(5) Growth cracks;
(6) Scab;
(7) Skin breakdown;
(8) Sprayburn;
(9) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(10) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from injury caused by:
(1) Green spots;
(2) Hail;
(3) Oil spots;
(4) Scale;
(5) Scars; and
(6) Thorn scratches.
(d) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Dryness or mushy condition;
(2) Insects;
(3) Sprouting;
(4) Sunburn; and
(5) Other means.
(e) For tolerances see § 51.628.
[85 FR 68422, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.621
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of grapefruit which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.638.);
(2) Fairly smooth texture;
(3) Fairly well colored;
(4) Fairly well formed;
(5) Firm;
(6) Mature; and
(7) Similar varietal characteristics.
(b) Free from:
(1) Bruises;
(2) Caked melanose;
(3) Decay;
(4) Growth cracks;
(5) Sprayburn;
(6) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(7) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Buckskin;
(3) Caked melanose;
(4) Dryness or mushy condition;
(5) Green spots;
(6) Hail;
(7) Oil spots;
(8) Scab;
(9) Scale;
(10) Scars;
(11) Skin breakdown;
(12) Sprayburn;
(13) Sprouting;
(14) Sunburn;
(15) Thorn scratches; and
(16) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.628.
[85 FR 68422, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.622
U.S. No. 1 Bright.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that no fruit may have more than one-tenth of its surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.628.
§ 51.623
U.S. No. 1 Bronze.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that all fruit must show some discoloration and at least 10 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-half of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. The predominating discoloration on each of these fruits shall be of rust mite type. For tolerances see § 51.628.
[85 FR 68423, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.624
U.S. Combination.
“U.S. Combination” consists of a combination of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 grapefruit:
Provided,
That at least 55 percent, by count, meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade for defects,
And provided further,
That the lot meets the basic requirement for discoloration as specified in the U.S. No. 2 grade. For tolerances see § 51.628.
[85 FR 68423, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.625
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of grapefruit which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than two-thirds of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.638.);
(2) Fairly firm;
(3) Mature;
(4) Not more than slightly misshapen;
(5) Not more than slightly rough texture;
(6) Slightly colored; and
(7) Similar varietal characteristics.
(b) Free from:
(1) Bruises;
(2) Decay;
(3) Growth cracks;
(4) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(5) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from serious damaged caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Buckskin;
(3) Caked melanose;
(4) Dryness or mushy condition;
(5) Green spots;
(6) Hail;
(7) Oil spots;
(8) Scab;
(9) Scale;
(10) Scars;
(11) Skin breakdown;
(12) Sprayburn;
(13) Sprouting;
(14) Sunburn;
(15) Thorn scratches; and
(16) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.628.
[85 FR 68423, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.626
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 2 except that at least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than two-thirds of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by any type of discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.628.
[85 FR 68423, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.627
U.S. No. 3.
“U.S. No. 3” consists of grapefruit which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Mature;
(2) May be misshapen;
(3) May be slightly spongy;
(4) May have rough texture;
(5) May be poorly colored. Not more than 25 percent of the surface may be of a solid dark green color;
(6) Not seriously lumpy or cracked; and
(7) Similar varietal characteristics.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from very serious damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Buckskin;
(3) Caked melanose;
(4) Dryness or mushy condition;
(5) Green spots;
(6) Hail;
(7) Oil spots;
(8) Scab;
(9) Scale;
(10) Scars;
(11) Skin breakdown;
(12) Sprayburn;
(13) Sprouting;
(14) Sunburn;
(15) Thorn scratches; and
(16) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.628.
[85 FR 68423, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Tolerances
§ 51.628
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, based on a minimum 25 count sample, are provided as specified. No tolerance shall apply to wormy fruit.
(a)
Defects
—(1)
U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1 Bronze, U.S. No. 2, and U.S. No. 2 Russet
—(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay.
1
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or
(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay.
(2)
U.S. Combination
—(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, included in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not
more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or
(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay.
(iii)
For defects at shipping point
1
and en route or at destination.
No part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce, for the lot as a whole, the 55 percent of U.S. No. 1 fruit required in the U.S. Combination grade, but individual samples may have not more than 15 percent less than the required percentage for the grade:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage required.
(3)
U.S. No. 3
—(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 1 percent for decay.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or
(B) 3 percent for decay.
(b)
Discoloration
—(1)
U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. Combination, and U.S. No. 2.
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements relating to discoloration as specified in each grade; No sample may have more than 20 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(2)
U.S. No. 1 Bronze.
At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified. No tolerance is provided for fruit showing no discoloration.
(3)
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than two-thirds of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
[85 FR 68423, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.629
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples are subject to the following limitations, unless otherwise specified in § 51.628. Individual samples shall have not more than one and one-half times a specified tolerance of 10 percent or more, and not more than double a specified tolerance of less than 10 percent:
Provided,
That at least one decayed fruit may be permitted in any sample:
And provided further,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.
[85 FR 68424, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Standard Pack
§ 51.630
Standard pack.
(a) Fruits shall be fairly uniform in size, unless specified as uniform in size. When packed in approved containers, fruit shall be arranged according to approved and recognized methods.
(b) “Fairly uniform in size” means that not more than 10 percent of fruit in any lot, and not more than double that amount in any sample, are outside the ranges of diameters given in Table 1 to this section:
Table 1 to § 51.630 to Paragraph (
b
)—7/10 Bushel Carton
Pack size/Number of grapefruit
Diameter in inches
Minimum
Maximum
18
4-15/16
5-9/16
23
4-5/16
5
27
4-2/16
4-12/16
32
3-15/16
4-8/16
36
3-13/16
4-5/16
40
3-10/16
4-2/16
48
3-9/16
3-14/16
56
3-5/16
3-10/16
64
3
3-8/16
(c) “Uniform in size” means that not more than 10 percent of fruit in any lot, and not more than double that amount in any sample, may vary more than the following amounts:
(1) 32 size and smaller—not more than six-sixteenths inch in diameter; and
(2) 27 size and larger—not more than nine-sixteenths inch in diameter.
(d) In order to allow for variations, other than sizing, incident to proper packing, not more than 5 percent of the packages in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of standard pack.
[85 FR 68424, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Definitions
§ 51.631
Mature.
Mature
shall have the same meaning currently assigned that term in the laws and regulations of the State in which the grapefruit is grown; or as the definition of such term may hereafter be amended.
§ 51.632
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the fruits in any container are similar in color and shape.
§ 51.633
Well colored.
Well colored
means that the fruit is yellow in color with practically no trace of green color.
§ 51.634
Firm.
Firm
means that the fruit is not soft, or noticeably wilted or flabby, and the skin is not spongy or puffy.
§ 51.635
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the fruit has the shape characteristic of the variety.
§ 51.636
Smooth texture.
Smooth texture
means that the skin is thin and smooth for the variety and size of the fruit.
§ 51.637
Injury.
Injury
means any specific defect described in Table 1 to § 51.652; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which slightly detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
[85 FR 68424, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.638
Discoloration.
Discoloration
means russeting of light shade of golden brown caused by rust mite or other means. Lighter shades of discoloration caused by smooth or fairly smooth, superficial scars or other means may be allowed on a greater area, or darker shades may be allowed on a lesser area, provided no discoloration caused by speck type melanose or other means may detract from the appearance of the fruit to a greater extent than the shade and amount of discoloration allowed in the grade.
§ 51.639
Fairly well colored.
Fairly well colored
means that except for a 1-inch circle in the aggregate of green color, the yellow color predominates over the green color on that part of the fruit which is not discolored.
§ 51.640
Fairly well formed.
Fairly well formed
means that the fruit may not have the shape characteristic of the variety but is not elongated or pointed or otherwise deformed.
§ 51.641
Fairly smooth texture.
Fairly smooth texture
means that the skin is not materially rough or coarse and that the skin is not thick for the variety.
§ 51.642
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in Table 1 to § 51.652; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
[85 FR 68424, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.643
Fairly firm.
Fairly firm
means that the fruit may be slightly soft, but not bruised, and the skin is not spongy or puffy.
§ 51.644
Slightly misshapen.
Slightly misshapen
means that the fruit is not of the shape characteristic of the variety but is not appreciably elongated or pointed or otherwise deformed.
§ 51.645
Slightly rough texture.
Slightly rough texture
means that the skin is not smooth or fairly smooth but is not excessively rough or excessively thick, or materially ridged, grooved or wrinkled.
§ 51.646
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in Table 1 to § 51.652; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
[85 FR 68424, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.647
Slightly colored.
Slightly colored
means that, except for a 2-inch circle in the aggregate of green color, the portion of the fruit surface which is not discolored shows some yellow color.
§ 51.648
Misshapen.
Misshapen
means that the fruit is decidedly elongated, pointed or flat sided.
§ 51.649
Slightly spongy.
Slightly spongy
means that the fruit is puffy or slightly wilted but not flabby.
§ 51.650
Very serious damage.
Very serious damage
means any specific defect described in Table 1 to § 51.652; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which very seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
[85 FR 68424, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.651
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end.
§ 51.652
Classification of defects.
All references to area or aggregate area, or length in this standard are based on a grapefruit 4
1/8
inches in diameter, allowing proportionately greater areas on larger fruit and lesser areas on smaller fruit.
Table 1 to § 51.652
Factor
Injury
Damage
Serious damage
Very serious damage
Ammoniation
Not occurring as light speck type
Scars are cracked or dark and aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Buckskin
Aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Caked melanose
Aggregating more than a circle 1 inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Dryness or mushy condition
Affecting all segments more than
1/4
inch at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
1/2
inch at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
3/4
inch at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit.
Green spots or oil spots
More than slightly affecting appearance
Aggregating more than a circle 1 inch in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle 1
1/2
inches in diameter.
Hail
Not well healed, or aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch in diameter
Not well healed, or aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch in diameter
Not well healed, or aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch in diameter
Not well healed, or aggregating more than a circle 1 inch in diameter.
Scab
Materially detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter
Seriously detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle 1 inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scale
More than a few adjacent to the “button” at the stem end, or more than 6 scattered on other portions of the fruit
Blotch aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter, or occurring as a ring more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Blotch aggregating more than a circle 1 inch in diameter, or occurring as a ring more than a circle 1
1/2
inches in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scars
Depressed, not smooth, or detracts from appearance more than the amount of discoloration permitted in the grade
Very deep or very rough aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch in diameter; deep or rough aggregating more than 1 inch in diameter; slightly rough or of slight depth aggregating more than 10 percent of surface
Very deep or very rough aggregating more than a circle 1 inch in diameter; deep or rough aggregating more than 5 percent of the fruit surface; slight depth or slightly rough aggregating more than 15 percent of surface
Very deep or very rough or unsightly that appearance is very seriously affected.
Skin Breakdown
Aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter.
Sprayburn
Hard or aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Sprouting
More than 6 seeds are sprouted, including not more than 1 sprout extending to the rind, remainder average not over
1/4
inch in length
More than 6 seeds are sprouted, including not more than 2 sprouts extending to the rind, remainder average not over
1/2
inch in length
More than 6 seeds are sprouted, including not more than 3 sprouts extending to the rind, remainder average not over
3/4
inch in length.
Sunburn
Skin is flattened, dry, darkened, or hard, aggregating more than 25 percent of surface
Skin is hard, fruit is decidedly one-sided, aggregating more than one-third of surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of fruit surface.
Thorn scratches
Not well healed, or more unsightly than discoloration permitted in the grade
Not well healed, hard concentrated thorn injury aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter, or slight scratches aggregating more than a circle 1 inch in diameter
Not well healed, hard concentrated thorn injury aggregating more than a circle
7/8
inch in diameter, or slight scratches aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
[85 FR 68424, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.653
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters (mm)
1/4
equals
6.4
3/8
equals
9.5
1/2
equals
12.7
9/16
equals
14.3
5/8
equals
15.9
3/4
equals
19.1
7/8
equals
22.2
1 equals
25.4
1
1/4
equals
31.8
1
1/2
equals
38.1
3 equals
76.2
3
2/16
equals
79.4
3
6/16
equals
85.7
3
8/16
equals
88.9
3
10/16
equals
92.1
3
13/16
equals
96.8
3
14/16
equals
98.4
3
15/16
equals
100.0
4
2/16
equals
104.8
4
5/16
equals
109.5
4
8/16
equals
114.3
4
12/16
equals
120.7
5 equals
127.0

# Subpart E—Application of Tolerances

# Source:
34 FR 13909, Aug. 30, 1969; 34 FR 14325, Sept. 12, 1969, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# General
§ 51.680
General.
The standards in this subpart apply only to the common or sweet orange group and varieties belonging to the Mandarin group except tangerines for which separate U.S. Standards are issued.

# Grades
§ 51.681
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-tenth of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.700.);
(2) Firm;
(3) Mature;
(4) Similar varietal characteristics;
(5) Smooth texture;
(6) Well colored; and
(7) Well formed.
(b) Free from:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Creasing;
(6) Decay;
(7) Growth cracks;
(8) Scab;
(9) Skin breakdown;
(10) Sprayburn;
(11) Undeveloped segments;
(12) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(13) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from injury caused by:
(1) Green spots;
(2) Hail;
(3) Oil spots;
(4) Rough, wide or protruding navels;
(5) Scale;
(6) Scars;
(7) Split navels; and
(8) Thorn scratches.
(d) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Dirt or other foreign material;
(2) Disease;
(3) Dryness or mushy condition;
(4) Insects;
(5) Sunburn; and
(6) Other means.
(e) For tolerances see § 51.689.
[85 FR 68426, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.682
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Color:
(i) Early and midseason varieties shall be fairly well colored.
(ii) For Valencia and other late varieties, not less than 50 percent, by count, shall be fairly well colored and the remainder reasonably well colored.
(2) Discoloration: Not more than one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.700.);
(3) Firm;
(4) Fairly smooth texture;
(5) Mature;
(6) Similar varietal characteristics; and
(7) Well formed.
(b) Free from:
(1) Bruises;
(2) Caked melanose;
(3) Decay;
(4) Growth cracks;
(5) Sprayburn;
(6) Undeveloped segments;
(7) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(8) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Buckskin;
(3) Creasing;
(4) Dirt or other foreign material;
(5) Disease;
(6) Dryness or mushy condition;
(7) Green spots;
(8) Hail;
(9) Insects;
(10) Oil spots;
(11) Scab;
(12) Scale;
(13) Scars;
(14) Skin breakdown;
(15) Split, rough or protruding navels;
(16) Sunburn;
(17) Thorn scratches; and
(18) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.689.
[85 FR 68426, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.683
U.S. No. 1 Bright.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that no fruit may have more than one-tenth of its surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.689.
§ 51.684
U.S. No. 1 Bronze.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that all fruit must show some discoloration and at least 10 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. The predominating discoloration on these fruits shall be of rust mite type. For tolerances see § 51.689.
[85 FR 68426, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.685
U.S. Combination.
“U.S. Combination” consists of a combination of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 oranges:
Provided,
That at least 55 percent, by count, meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade for defects,
And provided further,
That the lot meets the basic requirement for discoloration as specified in the U.S. No. 2 grade. For tolerances see § 51.689.
[85 FR 68426, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.686
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.700.);
(2) Fairly firm;
(3) Mature;
(4) Not more than slightly misshapen;
(5) Not more than slightly rough texture;
(6) Reasonably well colored; and
(7) Similar varietal characteristics.
(b) Free from:
(1) Bruises;
(2) Decay;
(3) Growth cracks;
(4) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(5) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from serious damaged caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Buckskin;
(3) Caked melanose;
(4) Creasing;
(5) Dirt or other foreign material;
(6) Disease;
(7) Dryness or mushy condition;
(8) Green spots;
(9) Hail;
(10) Insects;
(11) Oil spots;
(12) Scab;
(13) Scale;
(14) Scars;
(15) Skin breakdown;
(16) Split, rough or protruding navels;
(17) Sprayburn;
(18) Sunburn;
(19) Thorn scratches; and
(20) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.689.
[85 FR 68426, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.687
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 2 except that at least 10 percent by count of the fruit shall have more than one-half of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by any type of discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.689.
[85 FR 68426, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.688
U.S. No. 3.
“U.S. No. 3” consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Mature;
(2) May be misshapen;
(3) May be poorly colored. Not more than 25 percent of the surface may be of a solid dark green color;
(4) May be slightly spongy;
(5) May have rough texture;
(6) Not seriously lumpy or cracked; and
(7) Similar varietal characteristics.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from very serious damage caused by other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.689.
[85 FR 68426, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Tolerances
§ 51.689
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, based on a minimum 25 count sample, are provided as specified. No tolerance shall apply to wormy fruit.
(a)
Defects
—(1)
U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1 Bronze, U.S. No. 2, and U.S. No. 2 Russet Grades
—(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay.
1
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or
(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay.
(2)
U.S. Combination
—(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or
(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay.
(iii)
For defects at shipping point
1
and en route or at destination
. No part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce for the lot as a whole, the 55 percent of U.S. No. 1 fruit required in the U.S. Combination grade, but individual samples may have not more than 15 percent less than the required percentage for the grade:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage required.
(3)
U.S. No. 3
—(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 1 percent for decay.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or
(B) 3 percent for decay.
(b)
Discoloration
—(1)
U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. Combination, and U.S. No. 2.
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements relating to discoloration as specified in each grade. No sample may have more than 20 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(2)
U.S. No. 1 Bronze.
At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage. No sample may have less than 5 percent of the fruit with required discoloration:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages
within the percentage specified. No tolerance shall apply to fruit showing no discoloration.
(3)
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage. No sample may have less than 5 percent of the fruit with the required discoloration:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
[85 FR 68427, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.690
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples are subject to the following limitations, unless otherwise specified in § 51.689. Individual samples shall have not more than one and one-half times a specified tolerance of 10 percent or more, and not more than double a specified tolerance of less than 10 percent:
Provided,
That at least one decayed may be permitted in any sample:
And provided further,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.
[85 FR 68427, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Standard Pack
§ 51.691
Standard pack.
(a) Fruit shall be fairly uniform in size. When packed in approved containers, fruit shall be arranged according to approved and recognized methods.
(b) “Fairly uniform in size” means that not more than 10 percent of fruit in any lot, and not more than double that amount in any sample, are outside the ranges of diameters given in Table 1.
Table 1 to § 51.691 Paragraph (
b
)—7/10 Bushel Carton
Pack size/Number of oranges
Diameter in inches
Minimum
Maximum
24
3-12/16
5-1/16
32
3-6/16
4-9/16
36
3-4/16
4-6/16
40
3-2/16
4-4/16
48
2-15/16
4
56
2-13/16
3-13/16
64
2-11/16
3-10/16
72
2-9/16
3-8/16
88
2-8/16
3-4/16
113
2-7/16
3
138
2-6/16
2-12/16
163
2-3/16
2-8/16
(c) In order to allow for variations, other than sizing, incident to proper packing, not more than 5 percent of the packages in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of standard pack.
[85 FR 68427, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Standard Sizing
§ 51.692
Standard sizing.
(a) Boxes, cartons, bag packs, or bulk loads in which oranges are not packed according to a definite pattern do not meet the requirements of standard pack, but may be certified as meeting the requirements of standard sizing:
Provided,
that the ranges are fairly uniform in size as defined in § 51.691.
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper packing, not more than 5 percent of the containers in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of standard sizing.
[34 FR 13909, Aug. 30, 1969; 34 FR 14325, Sept. 12, 1969. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 66 FR 48788, Sept. 24, 2001]

# Definitions
§ 51.693
Mature.
Mature
shall have the same meaning currently assigned that term in the laws and regulations of the State in which the orange is grown; or as the definition of such term may hereafter be amended.
§ 51.694
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the fruits in any container are similar in color and shape.
§ 51.695
Well colored.
Well colored
means that the fruit is yellow or orange in color with practically no trace of green color.
§ 51.696
Firm.
Firm
as applied to common oranges, means that the fruit is not soft, or noticeably wilted or flabby; as applied to oranges of the Mandarin group (Satsuma, King, Mandarin), means that the fruit is not extremely puffy, although the skin may be slightly loose.
§ 51.697
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the fruit has the shape characteristic of the variety.
§ 51.698
Smooth texture.
Smooth texture
means that the skin is thin and smooth for the variety and size of the fruit.
§ 51.699
Injury.
Injury
means any specific defect described in Table 1 to § 51.713; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which slightly detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
[85 FR 68427, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.700
Discoloration.
Discoloration
means russeting of light shade of golden brown caused by rust mite or other means. Lighter shades of discoloration caused by smooth or fairly smooth, superficial scars or other means may be allowed on a greater area, or darker shades may be allowed on a lesser area, provided no discoloration caused by melanose or other means may affect the appearance of the fruit to a greater extent than the shade and amount of discoloration allowed for the grade.
§ 51.701
Fairly smooth texture.
Fairly smooth texture
means that the skin is not materially rough or coarse and that the skin is not thick for the variety.
§ 51.702
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in Table 1 to § 51.713; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
[85 FR 68427, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.703
Fairly well colored.
Fairly well colored
means that except for a one inch circle in the aggregate of green color, the yellow or orange color predominates over the green color on that part of the fruit which is not discolored.
§ 51.704
Reasonably well colored.
Reasonably well colored
means that the yellow or orange color predominates over the green color on at least two-thirds of the fruit surface in the aggregate which is not discolored.
§ 51.705
Fairly firm.
Fairly firm
as applied to common oranges, means that the fruit may be slightly soft, but not bruised; as applied to oranges of the Mandarin group (Satsuma, King, Mandarin) means that the fruit is not extremely puffy or the skin extremely loose.
§ 51.706
Slightly misshapen.
Slightly misshapen
means that the fruit is not of the shape characteristic of the variety but is not appreciably elongated or pointed or otherwise deformed.
§ 51.707
Slightly rough texture.
Slightly rough texture
means that the skin is not smooth or fairly smooth but is not excessively rough or excessively thick, or materially ridged, grooved or wrinkled.
§ 51.708
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in Table 1 to § 51.713; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
[85 FR 68428, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.709
Misshapen.
Misshapen
means that the fruit is decidedly elongated, pointed or flatsided.
§ 51.710
Slightly spongy.
Slightly spongy
means that the fruit is puffy or slightly wilted but not flabby.
§ 51.711
Very serious damage.
Very serious damage
means any specific defect described in Table 1 to § 51.713; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which very seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
[85 FR 68428, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 51.712
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end of the fruit.
§ 51.713
Classification of defects.
All references to area or aggregate area, or length in this standard are based on an orange 2
7/8
inches in diameter, allowing proportionately greater areas on larger fruit and lesser areas on smaller fruit.
Table 1 to § 51.713
Factor
Injury
Damage
Serious damage
Very serious damage
Ammoniation
Not occurring as light speck type
Scars are cracked or dark and aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter or light colored and aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Buckskin
Aggregating more than a circle 1 inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Caked melanose
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Creasing
Materially weakens the skin, or extends over more than one-third of the surface
Seriously weakens the skin, or extends over more than one-half of the surface
Very seriously weakens the skin, or is distributed over practically the entire surface.
Dryness or mushy condition
Affecting all segments more than
1/4
inch at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
1/2
inch at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
3/4
inch at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit.
Green spots or oil spots
More than slightly affecting appearance
Aggregating more than a circle
7/8
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter.
Hail
Not well healed, or aggregating more than a circle
1/4
inch in diameter
Not well healed, or aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch in diameter
Not well healed, or aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch in diameter
Not well healed, or aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter.
Scab
Materially detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch in diameter
Seriously detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scale
More than a few adjacent to the “button” at the stem end, or more than 6 scattered on other portions of the fruit
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scars
Depressed, not smooth, or detracts from appearance more than the amount of discoloration permitted in the grade
Deep, rough or hard aggregating more than a circle
1/4
inch in diameter; slightly rough with slight depth aggregating more than a circle
7/8
inch in diameter; smooth or fairly smooth with slight depth aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Deep, rough aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch in diameter; slightly rough with slight depth aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Deep, rough or unsightly that appearance is very seriously affected.
Skin breakdown
Aggregating more than a circle
1/4
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Sunburn
Skin is flattened, dry, darkened or hard, aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface
Affecting more than one-third of the surface, hard, decidedly one-sided, or light brown and aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Sprayburn
Hard, or aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Split, rough or protruding navels
Split is unhealed; navel protrudes beyond general contour; opening is so wide, growth so folded and ridged that it detracts noticeably from appearance
Split is unhealed, or more than
1/4
inch in length, or more than 3 well healed splits, or navel protrudes beyond the general contour, and opening is so wide, folded or ridged that it detracts materially from appearance
Split is unhealed, or more than
1/2
inch in length, or aggregate length of all splits exceed 1 inch, or navel protrudes beyond general contour, and opening is so wide, folded and ridged that it seriously detracts from appearance
Split is unhealed or fruit is seriously weakened.
Thorn scratches
Not slight, not well healed, or more unsightly than discoloration permitted in the grade
Not well healed, or hard concentrated thorn injury aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch in diameter
Not well healed, or hard concentrated thorn injury aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
[85 FR 68428, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.714
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters (mm)
1/4
equals
6.4
5/16
equals
7.9
3/8
equals
9.5
1/2
equals
12.7
5/8
equals
15.9
3/4
equals
19.1
7/8
equals
22.2
1 equals
25.4
1
1/4
equals
31.8
2
3/16
equals
55.6
2
4/16
equals
57.2
2
7/16
equals
61.9
2
8/16
equals
63.5
2
9/16
equals
65.1
2
11/16
equals
68.3
2
12/16
equals
69.9
2
15/16
equals
74.6
3
1/16
equals
77.8
3
3/16
equals
81.0
3
5/16
equals
84.1
3
7/16
equals
87.3
3
9/16
equals
90.5
3
13/16
equals
96.8

# Subpart F—United States Standards for Grades of Florida Grapefruit

# Source:
61 FR 20703, May 8, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.750
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of grapefruit which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-tenth of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.770.);
(2) Firm;
(3) Mature;
(4) Similar varietal characteristics;
(5) Smooth texture;
(6) Well colored; and,
(7) Well formed.
(b) Free from:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Buckskin;
(3) Caked melanose;
(4) Decay;
(5) Scab;
(6) Sprayburn;
(7) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(8) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from injury caused by:
(1) Bruises;
(2) Green spots;
(3) Oil spots;
(4) Scale;
(5) Scars;
(6) Skin breakdown; and,
(7) Thorn scratches.
(d) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Dirt or other foreign material;
(2) Disease;
(3) Dryness or mushy condition;
(4) Hail;
(5) Insects;
(6) Sprouting;
(7) Sunburn; and,
(8) Other means.
(e) For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.751
U.S. No. 1 Bright.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that fruit shall have not more than one-fifth of its surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.752
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of grapefruit which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.770.);
(2) Fairly smooth texture;
(3) Fairly well colored;
(4) Firm;
(5) Mature;
(6) Similar varietal characteristics; and,
(7) Well formed.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Dirt or other foreign material;
(6) Disease;
(7) Dryness or mushy condition;
(8) Green spots;
(9) Hail;
(10) Insects;
(11) Oil spots;
(12) Scab;
(13) Scale;
(14) Scars;
(15) Skin breakdown;
(16) Sprayburn;
(17) Sprouting;
(18) Sunburn;
(19) Thorn scratches; and,
(20) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.753
U.S. No. 1 Golden.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that not more than 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.754
U.S. No. 1 Bronze.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that at least 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. The predominating
discoloration on each of these fruits shall be of rust mite type. For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.755
U.S. No. 1 Russet.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that at least 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by any type of discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.756
U.S. No. 2 Bright.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 2 except that fruit shall have not more than one-fifth of its surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.757
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of grapefruit which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.770.);
(2) Fairly firm;
(3) Mature;
(4) Similar varietal characteristics;
(5) Slightly colored;
(6) Not more than slightly misshapen; and,
(7) Not more than slightly rough texture.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from serious damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Dirt or other foreign material;
(6) Disease;
(7) Dryness or mushy condition;
(8) Green spots;
(9) Hail;
(10) Insects;
(11) Oil spots;
(12) Scab;
(13) Scale;
(14) Scars;
(15) Skin breakdown;
(16) Sprayburn;
(17) Sprouting;
(18) Sunburn;
(19) Thorn scratches; and,
(20) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.758
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 2 except that at least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than one-half of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by any type of discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.760.
§ 51.759
U.S. No. 3.
“U.S. No. 3” consists of grapefruit which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Mature;
(2) Misshapen;
(3) Poorly colored;
(4) Rough texture, not seriously bumpy;
(5) Similar varietal characteristics; and,
(6) Slightly spongy.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from very serious damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Disease;
(6) Dryness or mushy condition;
(7) Hail;
(8) Insects;
(9) Oil spotting;
(10) Scab;
(11) Scale;
(12) Scars;
(13) Skin breakdown;
(14) Sprayburn;
(15) Sprouting;
(16) Sunburn; and,
(17) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.760.

# Tolerances
§ 51.760
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in
each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, based on a minimum 25 count sample, are provided as specified:
(a)
Defects.
(1) U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Golden, U.S. No. 1 Bronze, U.S. No. 1 Russet, U.S. No. 2 Bright, U.S. No. 2, and U.S. No. 2 Russet.
(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
1
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or,
(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
(2) U.S. No. 3.
(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than 1 percent shall be for decay or wormy fruit.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or,
(B) 3 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
(b)
Discoloration
—(1)
U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 2 Bright, and U.S. No. 2.
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements relating to discoloration as specified in each grade. No sample may have more than 20 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within percentage specified.
(2)
U.S. No. 1 Golden.
Not more than 30 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to increase this percentage. No sample may have more than 40 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(3)
U.S. No. 1 Bronze, and U.S. No. 1 Russet.
At least 30 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage. No sample may have less than 20 percent of the fruit with required discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(4)
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
[61 FR 20703, May 8, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 40290, Aug. 2, 1996; 62 FR 2897, Jan. 21, 1997]

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.761
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples are subject to the following limitations, unless otherwise specified in § 51.760. Individual samples shall have not more than one and one-half times a specified tolerance of 10 percent or more, and not more than double a specified tolerance of less than 10 percent:
Provided,
that at least one decayed or wormy fruit may be permitted in any sample:
And provided further,
that the averages for the entire
lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.
[62 FR 2897, Jan. 21, 1997]

# Size
§ 51.762
Size.
(a) Fruits shall be fairly uniform in size and shall be packed in containers according to approved and recognized methods.
(b) “Fairly uniform in size” means that not more than 10 percent of the grapefruit per sample may vary more than one-half inch in diameter.
(c) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing, not more than 10 percent of the samples in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of size.

# Definitions
§ 51.763
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the fruits in any container are similar in color and shape.
§ 51.764
Well colored.
Well colored
means that the fruit has characteristic color for the variety with practically no trace of green color.
§ 51.765
Firm.
Firm
means that the fruit is not soft, or noticeably wilted or flabby, and the skin is not spongy or puffy.
§ 51.766
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the fruit has the shape characteristic of the variety.
§ 51.767
Mature.
Mature
shall have the same meaning assigned the term in the Florida Citrus Code, Chapter 601, 1995 Edition, and the Official Rules Affecting the Florida Citrus Industry, in effect as of February 12, 1995. These grapefruit maturity requirements are contained in the Florida Citrus Code, Chapter 601, Florida Statutes, Sections 601.16, 601.17, and 601.18, 1995 Edition, and the State of Florida Department of Citrus Official Rules Affecting the Florida Citrus Industry, Part 1, Chapter 20-13 Market Classification, Maturity Standards and Processing or Packing Restrictions for Hybrids in effect as of February 12, 1995. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from, Florida Department of Citrus, Post Office Box 148, Lakeland, Florida 33802 or copies of both regulations may be inspected at USDA, AMS, F
VD, FPB, Standardization Section, Room 2065-S, 14th and Independence Ave., Washington, DC 20250 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
§ 51.768
Smooth texture.
Smooth texture
means that the skin is thin and smooth for the variety and size of the fruit. “Thin” means that the skin thickness does not average more than
3/8
inch (9.5 mm), on a central cross section, on grapefruit 4
1/8
inches (104.8 mm) in diameter.
§ 51.769
Injury.
Injury
means any specific defect described in § 51.784, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which slightly detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.770
Discoloration.
Discoloration
means russeting of a light shade of golden brown caused by rust mite or other means. Lighter shades of discoloration caused by smooth or fairly smooth superficial scars or other means may be allowed on a greater area, or darker shades may be allowed on a lesser area, provided no discoloration caused by speck-type melanose or other means may detract from the appearance of the fruit to a greater extent than the shade and amount of discoloration allowed in the grade.
§ 51.771
Fairly well colored.
Fairly well colored
means that except for an aggregate area of green color
which does not exceed the area of a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter, the characteristic color predominates over the green color.
§ 51.772
Fairly smooth texture.
Fairly smooth texture
means that the skin is fairly thin and not coarse for the variety and size of the fruit. “Fairly thin” means that the skin thickness does not average more than
1/2
inch (12.7 mm), on a grapefruit 4
1/8
inches (104.8 mm) in diameter.
§ 51.773
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.784, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.774
Fairly firm.
Fairly firm
means that the fruit may be slightly soft, but not bruised, and the skin is not spongy or puffy.
§ 51.775
Slightly misshapen.
Slightly misshapen
means that the fruit has fairly good shape characteristic of the variety and is not more than slightly elongated or pointed or otherwise deformed.
§ 51.776
Slightly rough texture.
Slightly rough texture
means that the skin may be slightly thick but not excessively thick, materially ridged or grooved. “Slightly thick” means that the skin thickness does not average more than
5/8
inch (15.9 mm), on a central cross section, on a grapefruit 4
1/8
inches (104.8 mm) in diameter.
§ 51.777
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.784, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.778
Slightly colored.
Slightly colored
means that except for an aggregate area of green color which does not exceed the area of a circle 2 inches (50.8 mm) in diameter, the fruit surface shows some characteristic color.
§ 51.779
Poorly colored.
Poorly colored
means that not more than 25 percent of the surface may be of a solid dark green color.
§ 51.780
Misshapen.
Misshapen
means that the fruit is decidedly elongated, pointed, or flatsided.
§ 51.781
Slightly spongy.
Slightly spongy
means that the fruit is puffy or slightly wilted but not flabby.
§ 51.782
Very serious damage.
Very serious damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.784, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which very seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.783
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end.
§ 51.784
Classification of defects.
Table I
Factor
Injury
Damage
Serious damage
Very serious damage
Ammoniation
Not occurring as light speck type
Scars are cracked or dark and aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Bruises
Segment walls are collapsed, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured
Segment walls are collapsed, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured
Segment walls are collapsed, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured
Fruit is split open, peel is badly watersoaked, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured causing a mushy condition affecting all segments more than
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) at bruised area or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when affecting more than one area on the fruit.
Buckskin
Aggregating more than a circle 1-
1/4
inches (31.8 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Caked melanose
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Dryness or mushy condition
Affecting all segments more than
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit.
Green spots
Aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter, caused by scale
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter, caused by scale
Aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter, caused by scale
Aggregating more than
1/3
of the surface, caused by scale.
Oil spots
Aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle 1
1/2
inches (38.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than
1/3
of the surface.
Scab
Materially detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Seriously detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
7/8
inch (22.2 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scale
More than a few adjacent to the “button” at the stem end, or more than 6 scattered on other portions of the fruit
Blotch aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter, or occurring as a ring more than a circle 1
3/4
inches (31.8 mm) in diameter
Blotch aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter, or occurring as a ring more than a circle 1
1/2
inches (38.1 mm) in diameter.
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scars, Hail, or Thorn scratches [For smooth or fairly smooth superficial scars see § 51.770.]
Depressed, not smooth, or detracts from appearance more than the amount of discoloration permitted in the grade
Very deep or very rough aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter; deep or rough aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter; slightly rough or of slight depth aggregating more than 10 percent of fruit surface
Very deep or very rough aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter; deep or rough aggregating more than 5 percent of fruit surface; slight depth or slightly rough aggregating more than 15 percent of fruit surface
Very deep or very rough or unsightly that appearance is very seriously affected.
Skin breakdown
Aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Sprayburn
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Hard and aggregating more than a circle 1
1/2
inches (38.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Sprouting
More than six seeds have sprouts of more than
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in length, or more than 3 seeds with sprouts over
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in length
More than six seeds have sprouts of more than
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in length, or more than 3 seeds with sprouts over 1 inch (25.4 mm) in length
More than six seeds have sprouts of more than
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in length, or more than 3 seeds with sprouts over 1
1/4
inches (31.8 mm) in length.
Sunburn
Skin is flattened, dry, darkened, or hard and the affected area exceeds 25 percent of the surface
Skin is hard and affects more than one-third of the surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Note:
All references to area or aggregating area, or length in this standard are based on a grapefruit 4
1/8
inches (104.8 mm) in diameter, allowing proportionately greater areas on larger fruit and lesser areas on smaller fruit.

# Subpart G—United States Standards for Grades of Table Grapes (European or Vinifera Type)

# Grades
§ 51.880
U.S. Extra Fancy Table.
“U.S. Extra Fancy Table” consists of bunches of well developed grapes of one variety, except when designated as assorted varieties, which are uniform in appearance, well colored, and which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements for berries:
(1) Mature;
(2) Firm;
(3) Firmly attached to capstem;
(4) Not weak;
(5) Not shriveled at capstem;
(6) Not shattered;
(7) Not split or crushed;
(8) Not wet.
(b) Basic requirements for bunches:
(1) Fairly well filled;
(2) Not excessively tight for the variety.
(c) Basic requirements for stems:
(1) Well developed and strong;
(2) Not dry and brittle;
(3) At least yellowish-green in color except for Cardinal, Robin, Exotic, and Beauty Seedless varieties.
(d) Berries free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Waterberry;
(3) Sunburn;
(4) Almeria Spot.
(e) Stems free from:
(1) Mold;
(2) Decay.
(f) Berries not damaged by:
(1) Any other cause.
(g) Bunches not damaged by:
(1) Shot berries;
(2) Dried berries;
(3) Other defective berries;
(4) Trimming away of defective berries;
(5) Any other cause.
(h) Stems not damaged by:
(1) Freezing;
(2) Any other cause.
(i) Size:
(1) For berries: Exclusive of shot berries and dried berries, not less than 90 percent, by count, of the berries on each bunch shall have the minimum diameters indicated for varieties as follows:
(i) Ribier, Cardinal, Robin, Exotic, Queen, Italia Muscat, and other similar varieties thirteen-sixteenths of an inch.
(ii) Other varieties eleven-sixteenths of an inch.
(2) For bunches:
(i) Not less than one-half pound.
(j) For tolerances see § 51.886.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.881
U.S. Extra Fancy Export.
“U.S. Extra Fancy Export” consists of grapes which meet the requirements for U.S. Extra Fancy Table and, in addition, meet the packaging requirements set forth in § 51.911.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 51.882
U.S. Fancy Table.
“U.S. Fancy Table” consists of bunches of well developed grapes of one variety, except when designated as assorted varieties, which are at least reasonably well colored, uniform in appearance when so specified in connection with the grade, and which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements for berries:
(1) Mature;
(2) Firm;
(3) Firmly attached to capstem;
(4) Not weak;
(5) Not shriveled at capstem;
(6) Not shattered;
(7) Not split or crushed;
(8) Not wet.
(b) Basic requirements for bunches:
(1) Fairly well filled;
(2) Not excessively tight for the variety.
(c) Basic requirements for stems:
(1) Well developed and strong;
(2) Not dry and brittle.
(d) Berries free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Waterberry;
(3) Sunburn;
(4) Almeria Spot.
(e) Stems free from:
(1) Mold;
(2) Decay.
(f) Berries not damaged by:
(1) Any other cause.
(g) Bunches not damaged by:
(1) Shot berries;
(2) Dried berries;
(3) Other defective berries;
(4) Trimming away of defective berries;
(5) Any other cause.
(h) Stems not damaged by:
(1) Freezing;
(2) Any other cause.
(i) Size:
(1) For berries: Exclusive of shot berries and dried berries, the following percentages, by count, of the berries on each bunch shall have the minimum diameters indicated for varieties as follows:
(i) For Ribier, Cardinal, Robin, Exotic, Queen, Italia Muscat, and other similar varieties, 90 percent shall be at least twelve-sixteenths of an inch;
(ii) For Thompson Seedless, Perlette, Delight, Beauty Seedless, Sugraone, Flame Seedless and other seedless varieties, 75 percent shall be at least ten-sixteenths of an inch; and,
(iii) For other varieties 90 percent shall be at least ten-sixteenths of an inch.
(2) For bunches:
(i) Not less than one-fourth pound.
(j) For tolerances see § 51.886.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 48 FR 19350, Apr. 29, 1983; 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991; 64 FR 14576, Mar. 26, 1999]
§ 51.883
U.S. Fancy Export.
“U.S. Fancy Export” consists of grapes which meet the requirements for U.S. Fancy Table, except that bunches shall weigh not less than one-half pound, and in addition meet the packaging requirements set forth in § 51.912.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.884
U.S. No. 1 Table.
“U.S. No. 1 Table” consists of bunches of well developed grapes of one variety, except when designated as assorted varieties, which are at least fairly well colored, uniform in appearance when so specified in connection with the grade, and which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements for berries:
(1) Mature;
(2) Firm;
(3) Firmly attached to capstem;
(4) Not weak;
(5) Not materially shriveled at capstem;
(6) Not shattered;
(7) Not split or crushed;
(8) Not wet.
(b) Basic requirements for bunches:
(1) Not straggly.
(c) Basic requirements for stems:
(1) Not weak, or dry and brittle.
(d) Berries free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Waterberry;
(3) Sunburn.
(e) Stems free from:
(1) Mold;
(2) Decay.
(f) Berries not damaged by:
(1) Any other cause.
(g) Bunches not damaged by:
(1) Shot berries;
(2) Dried berries;
(3) Other defective berries;
(4) Trimming away of defective berries;
(5) Any other cause.
(h) Stems not damaged by:
(1) Freezing;
(2) Any other cause.
(i) Size:
(1) For berries: Exclusive of shot berries and dried berries, 75 percent, by count, of the berries on each bunch shall have the minimum diameters indicated for varieties as follows:
(i) Thompson Seedless, Perlette, Delight, Beauty Seedless, Sugraone, Flame Seedless and other seedless varieties nine-sixteenths of an inch.
(ii) Other varieties ten-sixteenths of an inch.
(2) For bunches:
(i) Not less than one-fourth pound.
(j) For tolerances see § 51.886.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 48 FR 19350, Apr. 29, 1983; 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991; 64 FR 14576, Mar. 26, 1999]
§ 51.885
U.S. No. 1 Institutional.
“U.S. No. 1 Institutional” grapes must have no less than 95 percent of the containers in the lot legibly marked “Institutional Pack.” Further requirements for this grade include grapes which consist of clusters and/or bunches of well developed grapes of one variety, except when designated as assorted varieties, which are at least fairly well colored, uniform in appearance when so specified in connection with the grade, and which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements for berries:
(1) Mature;
(2) Firm;
(3) Firmly attached to capstem;
(4) Not weak;
(5) Not materially shriveled at capstem;
(6) Not shattered;
(7) Not split or crushed;
(8) Not wet.
(b) Basic requirements for stems: Not weak, or dry and brittle.
(c) Berries free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Waterberry;
(3) Sunburn.
(d) Stems free from:
(1) Mold;
(2) Decay.
(e) Berries not damaged by: Any other cause.
(f) Bunches not damaged by:
(1) Shot berries;
(2) Dried berries;
(3) Other defective berries;
(4) Any other cause.
(g) Stems not damaged by:
(1) Freezing;
(2) Any other cause.
(h) Size:
(1) For berries: Exclusive of shot berries and dried berries, 75 percent, by count, of the berries on each bunch shall have the minimum diameters indicated for varieties as follows:
(i) Thompson Seedless, Perlette, Delight, Beauty Seedless, Sugraone, Flame Seedless and other seedless varieties nine-sixteenths of an inch.
(ii) Other varieties ten-sixteenths of an inch.
(2) For clusters/bunches: In this grade grapes shall consist of at least a two berry cluster ranging to clusters and/or bunches of grapes not greater than five ounces in weight. See section 51.913.
(i) For tolerances see section 51.886.
[61 FR 11126, Mar. 19, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 14576, Mar. 26, 1999]

# Tolerances
§ 51.886
Tolerances.
(a) No tolerances are provided in these standards for grapes which fail to meet the applicable maturity requirements other than the allowances specified in § 51.888 or in the sampling and testing procedures of State maturity regulations.
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades except U.S. No. 1 Institutional, tolerances, by weight, other than for maturity, are provided as set forth in Tables I and II.
Table I—Tolerances at Shipping Point
1
[Percent]
Factor
U.S. Extra fancy table
U.S. Fancy table
U.S. No. 1 table
(A) For bunches failing to meet color requirements
10
10
10
(B) For bunches failing to meet requirements for minimum diameter of berries
10
10
10
(C) For bunches failing to meet stem color requirements
10
(D) For offsize bunches and for bunches and berries failing to meet the remaining requirements for the grade
8
8
8
Including in (D):
(a) For serious damage
2
2
2
And, including in (a):
(i) For decay
1/2
of 1
1/2
of 1
1/2
of 1
1
Shipping Point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
Table II—Tolerances En Route or at Destination
(A) For bunches failing to meet color requirements
10
10
10
(B) For bunches failing to meet requirements for minimum diameter of berries
10
10
10
(C) For bunches failing to meet stem color requirements
10
(D) For offsize bunches and for bunches and berries failing to meet the remaining requirements for the grade
12
12
12
Including in (D):
(a) For permanent defects
8
8
8
(b) For serious damage
4
4
4
And, including in (b):
(i) For serious damage by permanent defects
2
2
2
(ii) For decay
1
1
1
(c) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in the U.S. No. 1 Institutional grade only, tolerances, by weight, other than for maturity, are provided as set forth in Tables Ia and IIa of this section.
Table Ia—Tolerances at Shipping Point for U.S. No. 1 Institutional Grade Only
1
[Percent]
Factor
U.S. No. 1 institutional
(A) For clusters/bunches failing to meet color requirements
10.
(B) For clusters/bunches failing to meet requirements for minimum diameter of berries
10.
(C) For offsize clusters/bunches
4.
(D) For clusters/bunches and berries failing to meet the remaining requirements for the grade
8.
Including in (D):
(a) For serious damage
2
And, including in (a):
(i) For decay
1/2
of 1.
1
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
Table IIa—Tolerances En Route or at Destination for U.S. No. 1 Institutional Grade Only
Factor
U.S. No. 1 institutional
(A) For clusters/bunches failing to meet color requirements
10.
(B) For clusters/bunches failing to meet requirements for minimum diameter of berries
10.
(C) For offsize clusters/bunches
4.
(D) For clusters/bunches and berries failing to meet the remaining requirements for the grade
12.
Including in (D):
(a) For permanent defects
8.
(b) For serious damage
4.
And, including in (b):
(i) For serious damage by permanent defects
2.
(ii) For decay
1.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 52 FR 22437, June 12, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991; 61 FR 11127, Mar. 19, 1996]

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.887
Application of tolerances.
The contents of the individual packages in any lot, based on sample inspection, are subject to the following limitations:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade:
(a) For tolerances of 10 percent or more, individual packages may contain not more than one and one-half times the specified tolerance.
(b) For a tolerance of less than 10 percent, individual packages may contain not more than double the specified tolerance.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]

# Maturity Requirements
§ 51.888
Maturity requirements.
(a) In the case of grapes grown in Arizona or California, “mature” means grapes in any lot shall meet the maturity requirements for the variety as set forth in the applicable State Agricultural Laws and Regulations referenced in this section. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from, in the case of Arizona maturity regulations, Arizona Department of Agriculture, Citrus, Fruit and Vegetable Standardization, 1688 W. Adams, Phoenix, AZ 85007 or in the case of California maturity regulations, California Department of Food and Agriculture, Fruit and Vegetable Quality Control, Standardization Section, 1220 N Street, P.O. Box 942871, Sacramento, California 94271-0001 or copies of both regulations may be inspected at USDA, AMS, F
VD, FPB, Standardization Section, Room 2065-S, 14th and Independence Avenue, Washington, DC 20250 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Arizona maturity regulations are contained in Chapter 4—Plant Services Division, Article 7, Fruit And Vegetable Standardization, Section R3-4-733 Table Grape Standards, Effective January 6, 1994.
(2) California maturity regulations are contained in The California Code of Regulations, Title 3, Subchapter 4. Fresh Fruits, Nuts and Vegetables, Article 25, Table Grapes and Raisins, November 16, 1996.
(b) Grapes subject to U.S. import regulations shall meet the maturity requirements specified in such regulations.
(c) Grapes produced in States other than Arizona or California, or grapes imported from countries outside the United States during periods in which U.S. import regulations do not apply, shall meet the minimum percentage of soluble solids set forth in Table III as determined by use of a standard hand refractometer.
Table III
Variety
Percent of soluble solids
Muscat
17.5
All varieties not listed in this table
16.5
Cardinal, Emperor, Perlette, Ribier, Olivette Blanche, Rish Baba, Red Malaga, and similar varieties
15.5
(1) The minimum percentage of soluble solids for any lot shall be determined from the juice of at least 10 percent, by weight, of whole bunches of the least mature grapes in that container which appears to have the least mature grapes. No lot shall be considered as failing to meet these requirements unless samples from two containers which appear to have the least mature grapes test below the required percentage of soluble solids.
[48 FR 19350, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 22437, June 12, 1987. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991; 61 FR 11127, Mar. 19, 1996; 64 FR 14577, Mar. 26, 1999]

# Definitions
§ 51.889
Well developed grapes.
Well developed grapes
means grapes which are not abnormally small for the variety.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.890
One variety.
One variety
means that the grapes show similar varietal characteristics.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.891
Uniform in appearance.
Uniform in appearance
means that not more than one-tenth of the containers in any lot show sufficient variation in color or size of berries to materially detract from the appearance of the contents of the individual container, and that the stems are well developed and strong.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.892
Color terms.
The color terms
well colored, reasonably well colored,
and
fairly well colored
are defined in Table IV.
Table IV
Color terms
Black varieties
Red varieties
White varieties
Well colored (U.S. Extra Fancy)
Each bunch shall have not less than 95 percent, by count, of berries showing good characteristic color.
1
Each bunch shall have not less than 75 percent, by count, of berries showing good characteristic color.
1
No requirement.
Reasonably well colored (U.S. Fancy)
Each bunch shall have not less than 85 percent, by count, of berries showing good characteristic color.
1
Each bunch shall have not less than 66
2/3
percent, by count, of berries showing good characteristic color
1
except the Tokay and Cardinal varieties shall have not less than 75 percent, by count, of berries showing characteristic color.
2
No requirement.
Fairly well colored (U.S. No. 1)
Each bunch shall have not less than 75 percent, by count, of berries showing characteristic color.
2
Each bunch shall have not less than 60 percent, by count, of berries showing characteristic color.
2
No requirement.
1
Good characteristic color for black varieties means purple to black except that Ribier or similar varieties of grapes shall have at least two-thirds of the surface of the berry showing purple to black color.
For red varieties good characteristic color means at least two-thirds of the surface of the berry is light red through dark red color; except, for the Tokay variety pink through dark red, and for the Cardinal variety light red through purple shall be permitted.
2
Characteristic color for black varieties means reddish-purple to black except that Ribier or similar varieties of grapes shall have at least two-thirds of the surface of the berry showing reddish-purple to black color.
For red varieties characteristic color means at least two-thirds of the surface of the berry is pink to dark red; except, for the Tokay variety light pink through dark red and for the Cardinal variety light pink through purple color shall be permitted.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.893
Firm.
Firm
means that the berry does not yield more than slightly to moderate pressure and is not flabby or wilted.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.894
Weak.
Weak
means that individual berries are somewhat translucent, watery and soft, may have relatively low sugar content, inferior flavor, or are of poor keeping quality.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.895
Shriveled at capstem.
Shriveled at capstem
means that the berry shows more than slight wrinkling of the skin surrounding the capstem.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.896
Shattered.
Shattered
means that the berry is separated from the bunch and may or may not have the capstem attached.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.897
Wet.
Wet
means that the grapes are wet from moisture from crushed, leaking, or decayed berries or from rain. Grapes which are moist from dew or other moisture condensation such as that resulting from removing grapes from a refrigerator car or cold storage to a warmer location shall not be considered as wet.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.898
Decay.
Decay
means any soft breakdown of the flesh or skin of the berry resulting from bacterial or fungus infection. Slight surface development of green mold (Cladosporium) shall not be considered decay.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.899
Waterberry.
Waterberry
means a watery, soft, or flabby condition of the berry. Affected berries are low in sugar content, have tender skins, and are easily crushed. This is an advanced or more pronounced stage of the condition referred to as “weak”.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.900
Sunburn.
Sunburn
means injury to the berry caused by exposure to the sun, including “sulphur burn,” usually occurring as a sunken and discolored or dried area on the exposed surface.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.901
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, or any other defect, or any combination of defects which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the individual berry, the appearance of the bunch as a whole, or the marketing quality of the stems.
(a) The following shall be considered as damage to the individual berry:
(1) Scarring such as that caused by thrips, mildew, rubs, and similar injuries when materially detracting from the appearance of the berry;
(2) Discoloration when any light brown, tan, or darker discoloration of the skin materially detracts from the appearance of the berry:
Provided,
That “sunkissed” berries of the white Malaga variety which show discoloration of amber or light brown color shall not be considered as damaged. “Buckskin” berries of the Tokay variety, and similar injury to other varieties, shall be considered as damaged by discoloration;
(3) Heat when the flesh of the berry is affected;
(4) Almeria Spot when any spot is distinctly sunken or dark in color;
(5) Mildew when active powdery mildew is present;
(6) Freezing when the berry is frozen or when the flesh of the berry is affected by freezing;
(7) Insect injury when penetrating the skin of the berry or when there is noticeable insect infestation on the bunch; when mealybug residue or aphis honeydew are present in noticeable amounts; or when leafhopper residue materially detracts from the appearance of the individual berry or of the bunch.
(b) The following shall be considered as damage to stems:
(1) Active powdery mildew or any other disease when present on the stems to the extent that it detracts from the appearance of the bunch or when scars caused by mildew or other disease constrict or weaken any part of the main or lateral stems; and,
(2) Freezing when the stems are frozen or the capstems are swollen or dried, or when the main or lateral stems are water-soaked and limp, or dried, as a result of freezing.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.902
Fairly well filled.
Fairly well filled
means that the berries are reasonably closely spaced on main and lateral stems and that the bunch is not very loose or stringy.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.903
Excessively tight.
Excessively tight
means that the berries are so wedged together that the bunch is extremely compact for the variety and resulting distorted berries materially detract from the appearance of the bunch.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.904
Shot berries.
Shot berries
means very small berries resulting from insufficient pollination, usually seedless in those varieties which normally develop seeds.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.905
Dried berries.
Dried berries
means berries which are dry and shriveled to the extent that practically no moisture is present.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.906
Well developed and strong.
Well developed and strong
means that the main and lateral stems are firm, fibrous, and pliable; not distinctly immature or spindly or threadlike at time of packing.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.907
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension of the berry taken at right angles to a line running from the stem to the blossom end.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.908
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any defect or any combination of defects which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the grapes and includes berries which are split, crushed, wet, affected by decay or waterberry, or affected by heat or freezing. Grapes which show healed cracks at the blossom and shall not be considered as seriously damaged.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.909
Materially shriveled at capstem.
Materially shriveled at capstem
means that the skin of the berry is definitely wrinkled adjacent to the capstem and the surface is materially sunken.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.910
Straggly.
Straggly
means that the berries are so widely spaced on main and laterial stems that the bunch is distinctly open or very stemmy or stringy in structure.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.911
Container.
Container
as used in these standards shall, for the purposes of determining maturity and other factors of grade of grapes in packages containing 5 pounds or less, mean the master container in which the individual packages are packed for shipment.
[52 FR 22437, June 12, 1987. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.912
Export.
When designated as Export, grapes shall be packed with any of the customary protective materials such as cushions, liners, or wraps, or properly packed in sawdust or granulated cork. The so-called “semi-sawdust packs” which are cushioned and/or covered with sawdust are not approved as protective packaging for export.
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991]
§ 51.913
Clusters.
Clusters
as used in these standards in reference to the U.S. No. 1 Institutional grade only shall be defined as two or more berries sharing a common point of attachment.
[61 FR 11127, Mar. 19, 1996]

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.914
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters (mm)
3/16
equals
12.7
9/16
equals
14.3
10/16
equals
15.9
11/16
equals
17.5
12/16
equals
19.1
13/16
equals
20.6
14/16
equals
22.2
15/16
equals
28.8
1 equals
25.4
Pounds
Grams
1/4
equals
113.4
1/2
equals
226.8
3/4
equals
340.2
1 equals
453.6
2 equals
907.2
3 equals
1,360.8
4 equals
1,814.4
5 equals
2,268.0
10 equals
4,536.0
[36 FR 9126, May 20, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated at 56 FR 15802, Apr. 18, 1991, and further redesignated at 61 FR 11127, Mar. 19, 1996]

# Subpart H—United States Standards for Grades of Florida Oranges and Tangelos

# Source:
61 FR 20708, May 8, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 51.1140
General.
The standards contained in this subpart apply only to the common or sweet orange group and varieties and hybrids of varieties belonging to the Mandarin group, except tangerines, and to the citrus fruit commonly known as “tangelo”—a hybrid between tangerine or mandarin orange (citrus reticulata) with either the grapefruit or pomelo (C. paradisi and C. grandis). Separate U.S. standards apply to tangerines. The standards for internal quality contained in §§ 51.1176 through 51.1179 apply only to common sweet oranges (citrus sinensis (L) Osbeck).

# Grades
§ 51.1141
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-tenth of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.1161.);
(2) Firm;
(3) Mature;
(4) Similar varietal characteristics;
(5) Smooth texture;
(6) Well colored; and,
(7) Well formed.
(b) Free from:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Buckskin;
(3) Caked melanose;
(4) Creasing;
(5) Decay;
(6) Scab;
(7) Split navels;
(8) Sprayburn;
(9) Undeveloped segments;
(10) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(11) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from injury caused by:
(1) Bruises;
(2) Green spots;
(3) Oil spots;
(4) Rough, wide or protruding navels;
(5) Scale;
(6) Scars;
(7) Skin breakdown; and,
(8) Thorn scratches.
(d) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Dirt or other foreign material;
(2) Disease;
(3) Dryness or mushy condition;
(4) Hail;
(5) Insects;
(6) Riciness or woodiness;
(7) Sunburn; and,
(8) Other means.
(e) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(f) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1142
U.S. No. 1 Bright.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that fruit shall have not more than one-fifth of its surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(b) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1143
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Color;
(i) Early and midseason varieties shall be fairly well colored.
(ii) For Valencia and other late varieties, not less than 50 percent, by count, shall be fairly well colored and the remainder reasonably well colored.
(2) Discoloration: Not more than one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.1161.);
(3) Fairly smooth texture;
(4) Firm;
(5) Mature;
(6) Similar varietal characteristics; and,
(7) Well formed.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Creasing;
(6) Dirt or other foreign material;
(7) Disease;
(8) Dryness or mushy condition;
(9) Green spots;
(10) Hail;
(11) Insects;
(12) Oil spots;
(13) Riciness or woodiness;
(14) Scab;
(15) Scale;
(16) Scars;
(17) Skin breakdown;
(18) Split, rough or protruding navels;
(19) Sprayburn;
(20) Sunburn;
(21) Thorn scratches; and,
(22) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(e) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1144
U.S. No. 1 Golden.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that not more than 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(b) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1145
U.S. No. 1 Bronze.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except at least 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. The predominating discoloration on each fruit shall be of rust mite type.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(b) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1146
U.S. No. 1 Russet.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that at least 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by any type of discoloration.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(b) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1147
U.S. No. 2 Bright.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 2 except that fruit shall have not more than one-fifth of its surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(b) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1148
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.1161.)
(2) Fairly firm;
(3) Mature;
(4) Reasonably well colored;
(5) Similar varietal characteristics;
(6) Not more than slightly misshapen; and
(7) Not more than slightly rough texture.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from serious damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Creasing;
(6) Dirt or other foreign material;
(7) Disease;
(8) Dryness or mushy condition;
(9) Green spots;
(10) Hail;
(11) Insects;
(12) Oil spots;
(13) Riciness or woodiness;
(14) Scab;
(15) Scale;
(16) Scars;
(17) Skin breakdown;
(18) Split, rough or protruding navels;
(19) Sprayburn;
(20) Sunburn;
(21) Thorn scratches; and
(22) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(e) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1149
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 2 except that at least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than one-half of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by any type of discoloration.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(b) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S.
Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
§ 51.1150
U.S. No. 3.
“U.S. No. 3” consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Mature;
(2) Misshapen;
(3) Poorly colored;
(4) Rough texture, not seriously lumpy;
(5) Similar varietal characteristics; and
(6) Slightly spongy.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from very serious damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Creasing;
(6) Disease;
(7) Dryness or mushy condition;
(8) Hail;
(9) Insects;
(10) Riciness or woodiness;
(11) Scab;
(12) Scale;
(13) Scars;
(14) Skin breakdown;
(15) Split navels;
(16) Sprayburn;
(17) Sunburn; and
(18) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1151.
(e) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)” or “U.S. Grade A Juice” may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)

# Tolerances
§ 51.1151
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, based on a minimum 25 count sample, are provided as specified:
(a)
Defects.
(1) U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Golden, U.S. No. 1 Bronze, U.S. No. 1 Russet, U.S. No. 2 Bright, U.S. No. 2, and U.S. No. 2 Russet grades.
(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
1
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or,
(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
(2) U.S. No. 3.
(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than 1 percent shall be for decay or wormy fruit.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or,
(B) 3 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
(b)
Discoloration
—(1)
U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 2 Bright, and U.S. No. 2.
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements relating to discoloration as specified in each grade. No sample may have more than 20 percent of the fruit
with excessive discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(2)
U.S. No. 1 Golden.
Not more than 30 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to increase this percentage. No sample may have more than 40 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(3)
U.S. No. 1 Bronze, and U.S. No. 1 Russet.
At least 30 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage. No sample may have less than 20 percent of the fruit with required discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(4)
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
[61 FR 20708, May 8, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 40290, Aug. 2, 1996; 62 FR 2897, Jan. 21, 1997]

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1152
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples are subject to the following limitations, unless otherwise specified in § 51.1151. Individual samples shall have not more than one and one-half times a specified tolerance of 10 percent or more, and not more than double a specified tolerance of less than 10 percent:
Provided,
that at least one decayed or wormy fruit may be permitted in any sample:
And provided further,
that the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.
[62 FR 2897, Jan. 21, 1997]

# Size
§ 51.1153
Size.
(a) Fruits shall be fairly uniform in size and shall be packed in containers according to approved and recognized methods.
(b) “Fairly uniform in size” means that not more than 10 percent of the oranges per sample may vary more than one-half inch in diameter.
(c) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing, not more than 10 percent of the samples in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of size.

# Definitions
§ 51.1154
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the fruits in any container are similar in color and shape.
§ 51.1155
Well colored.
Well colored
as applied to common oranges and tangelos means that the fruit has characteristic color for the variety with practically no trace of green color.
§ 51.1156
Firm.
Firm
as applied to common oranges and tangelos means that the fruit is not soft, or noticeably wilted or flabby; as applied to oranges of the Mandarin group (Satsumas, King, Mandarin), “firm” means that the fruit is not extremely puffy, although the skin may be slightly loose.
§ 51.1157
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the fruit has the shape characteristic of the variety.
§ 51.1158
Mature.
Mature
shall have the same meaning assigned the term in the Florida Citrus Code, Chapter 601, 1995 Edition, and the Official Rules Affecting the Florida Citrus Industry, in effect as of February 12, 1995. These orange maturity requirements are contained in the Florida Citrus Code, Chapter 601, Florida Statutes, Sections 601.19, and 601.20, 1995 Edition, and the State of Florida Department of Citrus Official Rules Affecting the Florida Citrus Industry, Part 1, Chapter 20-13 Market Classification, Maturity Standards and Processing or Packing Restrictions for Hybrids in effect as of February 12, 1995.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from, Florida Department of Citrus, Post Office Box 148, Lakeland, Florida 33802 or copies of both regulations may be inspected at USDA, AMS, F
VD, FPB, Standardization Section, Room 2065-S, 14th and Independence Ave., Washington, DC 20250 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
§ 51.1159
Smooth texture.
Smooth texture
means that the skin is thin and smooth for the variety and size of the fruit.
§ 51.1160
Injury.
Injury
means any specific defect described in § 51.1175, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects which slightly detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.1161
Discoloration.
Discoloration
means russeting of a light shade of golden brown caused by rust mite or other means. Lighter shades of discoloration caused by smooth or fairly smooth superficial scars or other means may be allowed on a greater area, or darker shades may be allowed on a lesser area, provided no discoloration caused by speck type melanose or other means may detract from the appearance of the fruit to a greater extent than the shade and amount of discoloration allowed for the grade.
§ 51.1162
Fairly smooth texture.
Fairly smooth texture
means that the skin is fairly thin and not coarse for the variety and size of the fruit.
§ 51.1163
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1175, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.1164
Fairly well colored.
Fairly well colored
as applied to common oranges and tangelos means that except for an aggregate area of green color which does not exceed the area of a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter, the characteristic color predominates over the green color.
§ 51.1165
Reasonably well colored.
Reasonably well colored
as applied to common oranges means that the characteristic color predominate over the green color on at least two-thirds of the fruit surface, in the aggregate.
§ 51.1166
Poorly colored.
Poorly colored
as applied to common oranges means that not more than 25 percent of the surface may be solid dark green color.
§ 51.1167
Fairly firm.
Fairly firm
as applied to common oranges and tangelos, means that the fruit may be slightly soft, but not bruised; as applied to oranges of the Mandarin group (Satsumas, King, Mandarin), means that the skin of the fruit is not extremely puffy or extremely loose.
§ 51.1168
Slightly misshapen.
Slightly misshapen
means that the fruit is not of the shape characteristic of the variety but is not appreciably elongated or pointed or otherwise deformed.
§ 51.1169
Slightly rough texture.
Slightly rough texture
means that the skin is not of smooth texture but is not materially ridged, grooved, or wrinkled.
§ 51.1170
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1175, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance,
or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.1171
Misshapen.
Misshapen
means that the fruit is decidedly elongated, pointed or flatsided.
§ 51.1172
Slightly spongy.
Slightly spongy
means that the fruit is puffy or slightly wilted but not flabby.
§ 51.1173
Very serious damage.
Very serious damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1175, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which very seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.1174
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end.
§ 51.1175
Classification of defects.
Table I
Factor
Injury
Damage
Serious damage
Very serious damage
Ammoniation
Not occurring as light speck type
Scars are cracked or dark and aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Bruises
Segment walls are collapsed, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured
Segment walls are collapsed, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured
Segment walls are collapsed, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured
Fruit is split open, peel is badly watersoaked, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured causing a mushy condition affecting all segments more than
3/4
inch (19.9 mm) at bruised area or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when affecting more than one area on the fruit.
Buckskin
Aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25.4 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Caked melanose
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Creasing
Materially weakens the skin, or extends over more than one-third of the surface
Seriously weakens the skin, or extends over more than one-half of the surface
Very seriously weakens the skin, or is distributed over practically the entire surface.
Dryness or mushy condition
Affecting all segments more than
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit.
Green spots
Aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter, caused by scale
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter, caused by scale
Aggregating more than a circle
7/8
inch (22.2 mm) in diameter, caused by scale
Aggregating more than
1/3
of the surface, caused by scale.
Oil spots
Aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
7/8
inch (22.2 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches (31.8 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than
1/3
of the surface.
Scab
Materially detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Seriously detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scale
More than a few adjacent to the “button” at the stem end, or more than 6 scattered on other portions of the fruit
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scars, Hail, or Thorn scratches [For smooth or fairly smooth superficial scars see § 51.1161.]
Depressed, not smooth, or detracts from appearance more than the amount of discoloration permitted in the grade
Deep or rough aggregating more than a circle
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter; slightly rough with slight depth aggregating more than a circle
7/8
inch (22.2 mm) in diameter; smooth or fairly smooth with slight depth aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches (31.8 mm) in diameter
Deep or rough aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter; slightly rough with depth aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches (31.8 mm) in diameter; smooth or fairly smooth with slight depth aggregating more than 10 percent of fruit surface
Deep or rough or unsightly that appearance is very seriously affected.
Skin breakdown
Aggregating more than a circle
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
7/8
inch (22.2 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Sprayburn
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Hard and aggregating more than a circle 1
1/2
inches (38.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Split, rough, protruding navels
Split is unhealed, or more than
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) in length, or navel protrudes beyond the general contour, and opening is so wide, folded and ridged that it detracts from the appearance
Split is unhealed, or more than
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in length, or more than three well healed splits, or navel protrudes beyond the general contour, and opening is so wide, folded and ridged that it detracts from appearance
Split is unhealed, or more than
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in length, or two or more splits aggregate more than 1 inch (25.4 mm) in length, or navel protrudes beyond general contour, and opening is so wide, folded and ridged that it detracts from appearance
Split is unhealed or fruit is seriously weakened.
Sunburn
Skin is flattened, dry, darkened, or hard and the affected area exceeds 25 percent of the surface
Skin is hard and affects more than one-third of the surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Note:
All references to area or aggregating area, or length in this standard are based on an orange or tangelo 2
7/8
inches (73.0 mm) in diameter, allowing proportionately greater areas on larger fruit and lesser areas on smaller fruit.

# Standards for Internal Quality of Common Sweet Oranges (Citrus Sinensis (L) Osbeck)
§ 51.1176
U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A).
Any lot of oranges, the juice content of which meets the following requirements, may be designated “U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)”:
(a) Each lot of fruit shall contain an average of not less than 5 gallons (18.9 liters) of juice per standard packed box of 1
3/5
bushels.
(b) The average juice content for any lot of fruit shall have not less than 10 percent total soluble solids, and not less than one-half of 1 percent anhydrous citric acid, or more than the permissible maximum acid specified in Table II of § 51.1178.
§ 51.1177
U.S. Grade A Juice.
Any lot of oranges, the juice content of which meets the following requirements, may be designated “U.S. Grade A Juice”:
(a) Each lot of fruit shall contain an average of not less than 4
1/2
gallons (17.0 liters) of juice per standard packed box of 1
3/5
bushels.
(b) The average juice content for any lot of fruit shall have not less than 9 percent total soluble solids, and not less than one-half of 1 percent anhydrous citric acid, or more than the permissible maximum acid specified in Table II of § 51.1178.
§ 51.1178
Maximum anhydrous citric acid permissible for corresponding total soluble solids.
For determining the grade of juice, the maximum permissible anhydrous citric acid content in relation to corresponding total soluble solids in the fruit is set forth in the following Table II together with the minimum ratio of total soluble solids to anhydrous citric acid:
Table II
Total soluble solids
(average pct)
Maximum anhydrous citric acid
(average pct)
Minimum ratio of total soluble solids to anhydrous citric acid
9.0
0.947
9.50-1
9.1
.963
9.45-1
9.2
.979
9.40-1
9.3
.995
9.35-1
9.4
1.011
9.30-1
9.5
1.027
9.25-1
9.6
1.043
9.20-1
9.7
1.060
9.15-1
9.8
1.077
9.10-1
9.9
1.094
9.05-1
10.0
1.111
9.00-1
10.1
1.128
8.95-1
10.2
1.146
8.90-1
10.3
1.164
8.85-1
10.4
1.182
8.80-1
10.5
1.200
8.75-1
10.6
1.218
8.70-1
10.7
1.237
8.65-1
10.8
1.256
8.60-1
10.9
1.275
8.55-1
11.0
1.294
8.50-1
11.1
1.306
8.50-1
11.2
1.318
8.50-1
11.3
1.329
8.50-1
11.4
1.341
8.50-1
11.5
1.353
8.50-1
11.6
1.365
8.50-1
11.7
1.376
8.50-1
11.8
1.388
8.50-1
11.9
1.400
8.50-1
12.0
1.412
8.50-1
12.1
1.424
8.50-1
12.2
1.435
8.50-1
12.3
1.447
8.50-1
12.4
1.459
8.50-1
12.5
1.471
8.50-1
12.6
1.482
8.50-1
12.7
1.494
8.50-1
12.8
1.506
8.50-1
12.9
1.517
8.50-1
13.0
1.530
8.50-1
13.1
1.541
8.50-1
13.2
1.553
8.50-1
13.3
1.565
8.50-1
13.4
1.576
8.50-1
13.5
1.588
8.50-1
13.6
1.600
8.50-1
13.7
1.612
8.50-1
13.8
1.624
8.50-1
13.9
1.635
8.50-1
14.0
1.647
8.50-1
14.1
1.659
8.50-1
14.2
1.671
8.50-1
14.3
1.682
8.50-1
14.4
1.694
8.50-1
14.5
1.705
8.50-1
14.6
1.718
8.50-1
14.7
1.729
8.50-1
14.8
1.741
8.50-1
14.9
1.753
8.50-1
15.0
1.765
8.50-1
15.1
1.776
8.50-1
15.2
1.788
8.50-1
15.3
1.800
8.50-1
15.4
1.812
8.50-1
15.5
1.824
8.50-1
15.6 or more
8.50-1
§ 51.1179
Method of juice extraction.
The juice used in the determining of solids, acids and juice content shall be extracted from representative samples as thoroughly as possible with a hand reamer or by such mechanical extractor or extractors as may be approved. The juice shall be strained through cheese cloth or other approved straining device of extra fine mesh to prevent passage of juice cells, pulp, or seeds.

# Subpart I—United States Standards for Cleaned Virginia Type Peanuts in the Shell

# Source:
18 FR 7117, Nov. 11, 1953, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.1235
U.S. Jumbo Hand Picked.
U.S. Jumbo Hand Picked shall consist of cleaned Virginia type peanuts in the shell which are mature, dry, and free from loose peanut kernels, dirt or other foreign material, pops, paper ends, and from damage caused by cracked or broken shells, discoloration or other means. The kernels shall be free from damage from any cause. In addition, the peanuts shall not pass through a screen having
37/64
× 3 inch perforations. Unless otherwise specified, the unshelled peanuts in any lot shall not average more than 176 count per pound.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 10.0 percent total for pops, peanuts having paper ends or damaged shells, loose undamaged peanut kernels, and dirt or other foreign material, but not more than one-twentieth of this amount, or 0.5 percent, shall be allowed for dirt or other foreign material.
(2) 5.0 percent for peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen, but which are free from pops and from peanuts having paper ends or damaged shells.
(3) 3.5 percent for peanuts with damaged kernels, and damaged loose kernels.
§ 51.1236
U.S. Fancy Hand Picked.
U.S. Fancy Hand Picked shall consist of cleaned Virginia type peanuts in the shell which are mature, dry, and free from loose peanut kernels, dirt or other foreign material, pops, paper ends, and from damage caused by cracked or broken shells, discoloration or other means. The kernels shall be free from damage from any cause. In addition, the peanuts shall not pass through a screen having
32/64
× 3 inch perforations. Unless otherwise specified, the unshelled peanuts in any lot shall not average more than 225 count per pound.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 11.0 percent total for pops, peanuts having paper ends or damaged shells, loose undamaged peanut kernels, and dirt or other foreign material, but not more than one twenty-second of this amount, or 0.5 percent, shall be allowed for dirt or other foreign material.
(2) 5.0 percent for peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen, but which are free from pops and from peanuts having paper ends or damaged shells.
(3) 4.5 percent for peanuts with damaged kernels, and damaged loose kernels.

# Unclassified
§ 51.1237
Unclassified.
Unclassified shall consist of cleaned Virginia type peanuts in the shell which fail to meet the requirements of either of the foregoing grades. The term “unclassified” is not a grade within the meaning of these standards but is provided as a designation to show that no definite grade has been applied to the lot.

# Definitions
§ 51.1238
Mature.
Mature
means that the shells are firm and well developed.
§ 51.1239
Pops.
Pops
means fully developed shells which contain practically no kernels.
§ 51.1240
Paper ends.
Paper ends
means peanuts which have very soft and/or very thin ends.
§ 51.1241
Damage.
Damage
means any injury or defect which materially affects the appearance edible or shipping quality of the individual peanut or the lot as a whole. The following shall be considered as damage:
(a) Cracked or broken shells which have been broken to the extent that the kernel within is plainly visible without minute examination and with no application of pressure, or the appearance of the individual peanut is materially affected.
(b) Discolored shells which have dark discoloration caused by mildew, staining or other means affecting one-half or more of the shell surface. Talc powder or other similar material which may have been applied to the shells during the cleaning process shall not be removed to determine the amount of discoloration beneath, but the peanut shall be judged as it appears with the talc.
(c) Kernels which are rancid or decayed.
(d) Moldy kernels.
(e) Kernels showing sprouts extending more than one-eighth inch from the end of the kernel.
(f) Distinctly dirty kernels.
(g) Kernels which are wormy, or have worm frass adhering, or have worm cuts which are more than superficial.
(h) Kernels which have dark yellow color penetrating the flesh, or yellow pitting extending deep into the kernel.
§ 51.1242
Count per pound.
Count per pound
means the number of peanuts in a pound. When determining the count per pound, one single kernel peanut shall be counted as one-half peanut.

# Subpart J—United States Standards for Summer and Fall Pears

# Source:
20 FR 5620, Aug. 5, 1955, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# General
§ 51.1260
General.
These standards apply to varieties such as Bartlett, Hardy and other similar varieties.

# Grades
§ 51.1261
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of pears of one variety which are mature, but not over-ripe, carefully hand-picked, clean, fairly well formed, free from decay, internal breakdown, scald, freezing injury, worm holes, black end, and from damage caused by hard end, bruises, broken skins, russeting, limb- rubs, hail, scars, drought spot, sunburn, sprayburn, stings or other insect injury, disease, or mechanical or other means. (See §§ 51.1265 and 51.1268.)
§ 51.1262
U.S. Combination.
A combination of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 may be packed. When such a combination is packed, at least 50 percent of the pears in any container shall meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1. (See §§ 51.1265 and 51.1268.)
§ 51.1263
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of pears of one variety which are mature, but not over-ripe, carefully hand-picked, clean, not seriously misshapen, free from decay, internal breakdown, scald, freezing injury, worm holes, black end, and from damage caused by hard end, or broken skins. The pears shall also be free from serious damage caused by bruises, russeting, limbrubs, hail, scars, drought spot, sunburn, sprayburn, stings or other insect injury, disease, or mechanical or other means. (See §§ 51.1265 and 51.1268.)

# Unclassified
§ 51.1264
Unclassified.
“Unclassified” consists of pears which have not been classified in accordance with any of the foregoing grades. The term “unclassified” is not a grade within the meaning of these standards, but is provided as a designation to show that no grade has been applied to the lot.

# Tolerances
§ 51.1265
Tolerances.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, not more than a total of 10 percent of the pears in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of grade:
Provided,
That not more than 5 percent shall be seriously damaged by insects, and not more than 1 percent shall be allowed for decay or internal breakdown.
(b) When applying the foregoing tolerances to the combination grade no part of any tolerance shall be used to reduce the percentage of U.S. No. 1 pears required in the combination, but individual containers may have not
more than 10 percent less than the percentage of U.S. No. 1 required:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1266
Application of tolerances.
(a) The contents of individual packages in the lot, based on sample inspection, are subject to the following limitations, provided the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade:
(1) For packages which contain more than 10 pounds, and a tolerance of 10 percent or more is provided individual packages in any lot shall have not more than one and one-half times the tolerance specified. For packages which contain more than 10 pounds and a tolerance of less than 10 percent is provided, individual packages in any lot shall have not more than double the tolerance specified, except that at least one pear which is seriously damaged by insects or affected by decay or internal breakdown may be permitted in any package.
(2) For packages which contain 10 pounds or less, individual packages in any lot are not restricted as to the percentage of defects or off-size:
Provided,
That not more than four times the tolerance specified may be permitted in any package for pears which are seriously damaged by insects or affected by decay or internal breakdown except that at least one defective pear may be permitted in any package.

# Basis for Calculating Percentages
§ 51.1267
Basis for calculating percentages.
(a) When the numerical count is marked on the container or when pears are packed in a container to weigh 5 pounds or less, percentages shall be calculated on the basis of count.
(b) When the minimum diameter or minimum and maximum diameters are marked on a container packed to weigh more than 5 pounds or when the pears are jumbled in a container packed to weigh more than 5 pounds, percentages shall be calculated on the basis of weight or an equivalent basis.

# Condition After Storage or Transit
§ 51.1268
Condition after storage or transit.
Decay, scald, or other deterioration which may have developed on pears after they have been in storage or transit shall be considered as affecting condition and not grade.

# Standard Pack
§ 51.1269
Sizing.
(a) The numerical count, or the minimum size of the pears packed in closed containers shall be indicated on the package. The number of pears in the box shall not vary more than 3 from the number indicated on the box.
(b) When the numerical count is marked on western standard pear boxes the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch in their transverse diameter for counts 120 or less; one-fourth inch for counts 135 to 180, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 193 or more.
(c) When the numerical count is marked on western standard half boxes or special half boxes packed three tiers deep, the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch for counts 75 or less; one-fourths inch for counts 80 to 110, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 115 or more.
(d) When the numerical count is marked on western standard half boxes or special half boxes packed two tiers deep, the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch for counts 50 or less; one-fourth inch for counts 55 to 70, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 80 or more.
(e) When the numerical count is not shown, the minimum size shall be plainly stamped, stenciled or otherwise marked on the container in terms of whole inches, whole and half inches, whole and quarter inches, or whole and eighth inches, as 2
1/2
inches minimum, 2
1/4
inches minimum, or 2
5/8
inches minimum, in accordance with the facts. It is suggested that both minimum and maximum sizes be marked on the container, as 2
1/4
to 2
3/4
inches, 2
1/2
to 2
3/4
inches, as such marking is especially desirable for pears marketed in the export trade.
(f) “Size” means the greatest transverse diameter of the pear taken at right angles to a line running from the stem to the blossom end.
§ 51.1270
Packing.
(a) Each package shall be packed so that the pears in the shown face shall be reasonably representative in size and quality of the contents of the package.
(b) Pears packed in any container shall be tightly packed. All packages shall be well filled but the contents shall not show excessive or unnecessary bruising because of overfilled packages.
(c) Pears packed in boxes shall be arranged in containers according to the approved and recognized methods with the pears packed lengthwise. A bridge shall not be allowed in any standard pack. When wrapped, each pear shall be fairly well enclosed by its individual wrapper.
(d) Pears packed in round stave bushel baskets, tubs or in barrels shall be ring faced.
§ 51.1271
Tolerances for standard pack.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing, not more than 5 percent of the pears in any lot may fail to meet the size requirements:
Provided,
That when the maximum and minimum sizes are both stated, an additional 10 percent tolerance shall be allowed for pears which are larger than the maximum size stated.
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper packing, not more than 10 percent of the containers in any lot may fail to meet these requirements, but no part of this tolerance shall be allowed for bridge packs, or for packs with different sizes and arrangements such as layers of 195 size and arrangement, and layers of 180 size and arrangement packed in the same box.

# Definitions
§ 51.1272
Mature.
(a)
Mature
means that the pear has reached the stage of maturity which will insure the proper completion of the ripening process.
(b) Before a mature pear becomes overripe it will show varying degrees of firmness, depending upon the stage of the ripening process. Therefore, a statement of firmness should be given in order to indicate the stage of the ripening process. A description of the ground color should also be given.
(1) The following terms should be used for describing the ground color:
Green, Light Green, Yellowish Green,
and
Yellow.
(2) The following terms should be used for describing the firmness of pears:
(i)
Hard
means that the flesh of the pear is solid and does not yield appreciably even to considerable pressure.
(ii)
Firm
means that the flesh of the pear is fairly solid but yields somewhat to moderate pressure.
(iii)
Firm ripe
means that the flesh of the pear yields readily to moderate pressure.
(iv)
Ripe
means that the pear is at the stage where it is in its most desirable condition for eating.
§ 51.1273
Overripe.
Overripe
means dead ripe, very mealy or soft, past commercial utility.
§ 51.1274
Carefully hand-picked.
Carefully hand-picked
means that the pears do not show evidence of rough handling or of having been on the ground.
§ 51.1275
Clean.
Clean
means free from excessive dirt, dust, spray residue or other foreign material.
§ 51.1276
Black end.
Black end
is evidenced by an abnormally deep green color around the calyx, or black spots usually occurring on the one-third of the surface nearest to the calyx, or by an abnormally shallow calyx cavity.
§ 51.1277
Fairly well formed.
Fairly well formed
means that the pear may be slightly abnormal in shape but not to an extent which detracts materially from the appearance of the fruit.
§ 51.1278
Damage.
Damage
means any injury or defect which materially affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality.
(a) Hard end shall be considered as damage if the pear shows a distinctly constricted protrusion at the blossom end, or an abnormally yellow color at the blossom end, or an abnormally smooth rounded base with little or no depression at the calyx, or if the flesh near the calyx is abnormally dry and tough or woody.
(b) Slight handling bruises and package bruises such as are incident to good commercial handling in the preparation of a tight pack shall not be considered damage.
(c) Any pear with one skin break larger than three-sixteenths inch in diameter or depth, or with more than one skin break one-eighth inch or larger in diameter or depth shall be considered damaged, and scored against the grade tolerance.
2
2
The area refers to that of a circle of the specified diameter.
(1) Small inconspicuous skin breaks, less than one-eighth inch in diameter or depth, shall not be considered damage. In addition, not more than 15 percent of the pears in any container may have not more than one skin break from one-eighth inch to three-sixteenths inch, inclusive, in diameter or depth.
2
(d) Russeting which exceeds the following shall be considered as damage:
(1) On all varieties excessively rough russeting (russeting which shows “frogging” or slight cracking) when the aggregate area exceeds one-half inch in diameter.
2
(2) On Bartlett and other smooth-skinned varieties, slightly rough russeting, or thick russeting such as is characteristic of frost injury, when the aggregate area exceeds three-fourths inch in diameter.
2
(3) On Bartlett and other smooth-skinned varieties, smooth solid or smooth netlike russeting when the aggregate area exceeds 15 percent of the surface.
(4) On Hardy, Sand and other similar varieties, rough or thick russeting such as is characteristic of frost injury, when the aggregate area exceeds three-fourths inch in diameter. On any of these varieties any amount of characteristic russeting is permitted whether due to natural causes such as weather or stimulated by artificial means; leaf whips or light limbrubs which resemble and blend into russeted areas shall be considered as russet.
2
(e) Any one of the following defects or any combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as damage:
(1) Any limbrubs which are cracked, softened, or more than slightly depressed.
(2) Black discoloration caused by limbrubs, which exceeds an aggregate area of three-eighths inch in diameter.
2
(3) Dark brown discoloration or excessive roughness caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of one-half inch in diameter.
2
(4) Slightly rough, light colored discoloration caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of three-fourths inch in diameter.
2
(5) Smooth, light colored discoloration caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of 1 inch in diameter.
2
(6) Hail marks or other similar depressions or scars which are not shallow or superficial, or where the injury affects an aggregate area of more than three-eighths inch in diameter.
2
(7) Drought spot when more than one in number, or when the external injury exceeds an aggregate area of three-eighths inch in diameter, or when the appearance of the flesh is materially affected by corky tissue or brownish discoloration.
2
(8) Sunburn or sprayburn where the skin is blistered, cracked, or shows any light tan or brownish color, or the shape of the pear is appreciably flattened, or the flesh is appreciably softened or changed in color, except that sprayburn of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of russeting.
(9) Insects: (i) More than two healed codling moth stings, or any insect sting which is over three thirty-seconds of an inch in diameter, or other insect stings affecting the appearance to an equal extent.
2
(ii) Blister mite or canker worm injury which is not shallow or superficial, or where the injury affects an aggregate area of more than three-eighths inch in diameter.
2
(10) Disease: (i) Scab spots which are black and which cover an aggregate area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter except that scab spots of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of russeting.
(ii) Sooty blotch which is thinly scattered over more than 5 percent of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than three-eighths inch in diameter.
2
2
The area refers to that of a circle of the specified diameter.
§ 51.1279
Seriously misshapen.
Seriously misshapen
means that the pear is excessively flattened or elongated for the variety, or is constricted or deformed so it will not cut three fairly uniform good quarters, or is so badly misshapen that the appearance is seriously affected.
§ 51.1280
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any injury or defect which seriously affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality.
(a) Russeting which in the aggregate exceeds the following shall be considered as serious damage:
(1) On all varieties, excessively rough russeting (russeting which shows “frogging” or slight cracking) when the aggregate area exceeds three-fourths inch in diameter.
2
(2) On all varieties, thick russeting such as is characteristic of frost injury, 15 percent of the surface.
(b) Any one of the following defects or combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as serious damage:
(1) Limbrubs which are more than slightly cracked, or excessively rough limbrubs or dark brown or black discoloration caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of three-fourths inch in diameter. Other limbrubs which affect an aggregate area of more than one-tenth of the surface.
2
(2) Hail marks or other similar depressions or scars which affect an aggregate area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter, or which materially deform or disfigure the fruit.
2
(3) Drought spot when more than two in number, or where the external injury affects an aggregate area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter, or when the appearance of the flesh is seriously affected by corky tissue or brownish discoloration.
2
(4) Sunburn or sprayburn where the skin is blistered, cracked or shows any brownish color, or where the shape of the pear is materially flattened, or the flesh is softened or materially changed in color, except that sprayburn of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of russeting.
(5) Insects: (i) Worm holes. More than three healed codling moth stings, of which not more than two may be over three thirty-seconds of an inch in diameter, or other insect stings affecting the appearance to an equal extent.
2
(ii) Blister mite or canker worm injury which affects an aggregate area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter or which materially deforms or disfigures the fruit.
2
(6) Disease: (i) Scab spots which are black and which cover an aggregate area of more than one-half inch in diameter, except that scab spots of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of russeting.
2
(ii) Sooty blotch which is thinly scattered over more than 15 percent of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter.
2

# Subpart K—United States Standards for Winter Pears

# Source:
20 FR 5752, Aug. 10, 1955, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# General
§ 51.1300
General.
These standards apply to varieties such as Anjou, Bosc, Winter Nelis, Comice, Flemish Beauty and other similar varieties.

# Grades
§ 51.1301
U.S. Extra No. 1.
“U.S. Extra No. 1” consists of pears of one variety which are mature, but not overripe, carefully hand-picked, clean, well formed, free from decay, internal breakdown, scald, freezing injury, worm holes, black end, hard end, drought spot, and free from injury caused by russeting, limbrubs, hail, scars, cork spot, sunburn, sprayburn, stings or other insect injury, or mechanical or other means, except that they shall be free from damage caused by bruises, broken skins, or disease. (See §§ 51.1306 and 51.1309.)
§ 51.1302
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of pears of one variety which are mature, but not over-ripe, carefully hand-picked, clean, fairly well formed, free from decay, internal breakdown, scald, freezing injury, worm holes, black end, and from damage caused by hard end, bruises, broken skins, russeting, limbrubs, hail, scars, cork spot, drought spot, sunburn, sprayburn, stings or other insect injury, disease, or mechanical or other means. (See §§ 51.1306 and 51.1309.)
§ 51.1303
U.S. Combination.
A combination of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 may be packed. When such a combination is packed, at least 50 percent of the pears in any container shall meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1. (See §§ 51.1306 and 51.1309.)
§ 51.1304
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of pears of one variety which are mature, but not overripe, carefully hand-picked, clean, not seriously misshapen, free from decay, internal breakdown, scald, freezing injury, worm holes, black end, and from damage caused by hard end, or broken skins. The pears shall also be free from serious damage caused by bruises, russeting, limbrubs, hail, scars, cork spot, drought spot, sunburn, sprayburn, stings or other insect injury, disease, or mechanical or other means. (See §§ 51.1306 and 51.1309.)

# Unclassified
§ 51.1305
Unclassified.
“Unclassified” consists of pears which have not been classified in accordance with any of the foregoing grades. The term “unclassified” is not a grade within the meaning of these standards, but is provided as a designation to show that no grade has been applied to the lot.

# Tolerances
§ 51.1306
Tolerances.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, not more than a total of 10 percent of the pears in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of grade:
Provided,
That not more than 5 percent shall be seriously damaged by insects, and not more than 1 percent shall be allowed for decay or internal breakdown.
(b) When applying the foregoing tolerances to the combination grade no part of any tolerance shall be used to reduce the percentage of U. S. No. 1 pears required in the combination, but individual containers may have not more than 10 percent less than the percentage of U.S. No. 1 required:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1307
Application of tolerances.
(a) The contents of individual packages in the lot, based on sample inspection, are subject to the following limitations, provided the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade:
(1) For packages which contain more than 10 pounds, and a tolerance of 10 percent or more is provided, individual packages in any lot shall have not more than one and one-half times the tolerance specified. For packages which contain more than 10 pounds and a tolerance of less than 10 percent is provided, individual packages in any lot shall have not more than double the tolerance specified, except that at least one pear which is seriously damaged by insects or affected by decay or internal breakdown may be permitted in any package.
(2) For packages which contain 10 pounds or less, individual packages in any lot are not restricted as to the percentage of defects or off-size:
Provided,
That not more than four times the tolerance specified may be permitted in any package for pears which are seriously damaged by insects or affected by decay or internal breakdown except that at least one defective pear may be permitted in any package.

# Basis for Calculating Percentages
§ 51.1308
Basis for calculating percentages.
(a) When the numerical count is marked in the container or when pears are packed in a container to weigh 5 pounds or less, percentages shall be calculated on the basis of count.
(b) When the minimum diameter or minimum and maximum diameters are marked on a container packed to weigh more than 5 pounds or when the pears are jumbled in a container packed to weigh more than 5 pounds, percentages shall be calculated on the basis of weight or an equivalent basis.

# Condition After Storage or Transit
§ 51.1309
Condition after storage or transit.
Decay, scald or other deterioration which may have developed on pears after they have been in storage or transit shall be considered as affecting condition and not the grade.

# Standard Pack
§ 51.1310
Sizing.
(a) The numerical count, or the minimum size of the pears packed in closed containers shall be indicated on the package. The number of pears in the box shall not vary more than 3 from the number indicated on the box.
(b) When the numerical count is marked on western standard pear boxes the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch in their transverse diameter for counts 120 or less; one-fourth inch for counts 135 to 180, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 193 or more.
(c) When the numerical count is marked on western standard half boxes or special half boxes packed three tiers deep, the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch for coutns 75 or less; one-fourth inch for counts 80 to 110, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 115 or more.
(d) When the numerical count is marked on western standard half boxes or special half boxes packed two tiers deep, the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch for counts 50 or less; one-fourth inch for counts 55 to 70, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 80 or more.
(e) When the numerical count is not shown, the minimum size shall be plainly stamped, stenciled or otherwise marked on the container in terms of whole inches, whole and half inches, whole and quarter inches, or whole and eighth inches, as 2
1/2
inches minimum, 2
1/4
inches minimum, or 2
5/8
inches minimum, in accordance with the facts. It is suggested that both minimum and maximum sizes be marked on the container, as 2
1/4
to 2
3/4
inches, 2
1/2
to 2
3/4
inches, as such marking is especially desirable for pears marketed in the export trade.
(f) “Size” means the greatest transverse diameter of the pear taken at right angles to a line running from the stem to the blossom end.
§ 51.1311
Packing.
(a) Each package shall be packed so that the pears in the shown face shall be reasonably representative in size and quality of the contents of the package.
(b) Pears packed in any container shall be tightly packed. All packages shall be well filled but the contents shall not show excessive or unnecessary bruising because of overfilled packages.
(c) Pears packed in boxes shall be arranged in containers according to the approved and recognized methods with the pears packed lengthwise. A bridge shall not be allowed in any standard pack. When wrapped, each pear shall be fairly well enclosed by its individual wrapper.
(d) Pears packed in round stave bushel baskets, tubs, or in barrels shall be ring faced.
§ 51.1312
Tolerances for standard pack.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing, not more than 5 percent of the pears in any lot may fail to meet the size requirements:
Provided,
That when the maximum and minimum sizes are both stated, an additional 10 percent tolerance shall be allowed for pears which are larger than the maximum size stated.
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper packing, not more than 10 percent of the containers in any lot may fail to meet these requirements but no part of this tolerance shall be allowed for bridge packs, or for packs with different sizes and arrangements such as layers of 195 size and arrangement, and layers of 180 size and arrangement packed in the same box.

# Definitions
§ 51.1313
Mature.
(a)
Mature
means that the pear has reached the stage of maturity which will insure the proper completion of the ripening process.
(b) Before a mature pear becomes overripe it will show varying degrees of firmness depending upon the stage of the ripening process. Therefore, a statement of firmness should be given in order to indicate the stage of the ripening process. A description of the ground color should also be given.
(1) The following terms should be used for describing the ground color:
Green, Light Green, Yellowish Green,
and
Yellow.
(2) The following terms should be used for describing the firmness of pears:
(i)
Hard
means that the flesh of the pear is solid and does not yield appreciably even to considerable pressure.
(ii)
Firm
means that the flesh of the pear is fairly solid but yields somewhat to moderate pressure.
(iii)
Firm ripe
means that the flesh of the pear yields readily to moderate pressure.
(iv)
Ripe
means that the pear is at the stage where it is in its most desirable condition for eating.
§ 51.1314
Overripe.
Overripe
means dead ripe, very mealy or soft, past commercial utility.
§ 51.1315
Carefully hand-picked.
Carefully hand-picked
means that the pears do not show evidence of rough handling or of having been on the ground.
§ 51.1316
Clean.
Clean
means free from excessive dirt, dust, spray residue or other foreign material.
§ 51.1317
Well formed.
Well formed
means having the shape characteristic of the variety. Slight irregularities of shape from type which do not appreciably detract from the general appearance of the fruit shall be considered well formed.
§ 51.1318
Black end.
Black end
is evidenced by an abnormally deep green color around the calyx, or black spots usually occurring on the one-third of the surface nearest to the calyx, or by an abnormally shallow calyx cavity.
§ 51.1319
Injury.
Injury
means any blemish or defect, that more than slightly affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality. The following shall be considered as injury:
(a) Russeting which exceeds the following shall be considered as injury:
(1) On all varieties any excessively rough russeting (russeting which shows “frogging” or slight cracking).
(2) On Comice, and on Anjou and other smooth-skinned varieties, slightly rough russeting, or thick russeting, such as is characteristic of frost injury, when the aggregate area exceeds one-half inch in diameter.
2
(3) On Anjou and other smooth-skinned varieties, smooth solid russeting when the aggregate area exceeds one-half inch in diameter and smooth net-like russeting when the aggregate area exceeds 15 percent of the surface, and on Comice, smooth solid or smooth netlike russeting when the aggregate area exceeds one-third of the surface, except that, in addition, on
these and similar varieties, any amount of characteristic smooth russeting shall be permitted on that portion of the calyx end not visible for more than one-half inch along the contour of the pear, when it is placed calyx end down on a flat surface.
2
(4) On any of the following and other similar varieties, rough or thick russeting such as is characteristic of frost injury when the aggregate area exceeds one-half inch in diameter.
2
On any of these varieties any amount of characteristic russeting is permitted whether due to natural causes such as weather or stimulated by artificial means; leaf whips or light limbrubs which resemble and blend into russeted areas shall be considered as russet:
Bosc, Clairgeau, Easter Beurre, Flemish Beauty, Kieffer, P. Barry, Pound, Seckel, Sheldon, Winter Nelis, and other similar varieties.
(b) Any one of the following defects or any combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as injury:
(1) Limbrubs which are cracked, softened, more than very slightly depressed, not light in color, or exceeding an aggregate area of three-fourths inch in diameter.
2
(2) Hail marks or other similar depressions or scars which are not very shallow or superficial, or which affect an aggregate area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.
2
(3) Cork spot when a pear shows depressions or the flesh of the pear is more than slightly affected.
(4) Sunburn or sprayburn if the normal color of the fruit has been materially changed, or if the skin is blistered or cracked, or the flesh softened or discolored.
(5) More than two healed slight stings or depressions, or any stings which materially affect the general appearance of the fruit.
(6) Blister mite or canker worm injury which is not very shallow and superficial or where the injury affects an aggregate area of more than one-fourth inch.
2
§ 51.1320
Fairly well formed.
Fairly well formed
means that the pear may be slightly abnormal in shape but not to an extent which detracts materially from the appearance of the fruit. Winter Nelis pears with characteristic slight sutures or with slight flattening on one side and/or other slight irregularities which do not materially detract from the general appearance of the pear shall be considered fairly well formed.
§ 51.1321
Damage.
Damage
means any injury or defect which materially affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality.
(a) Hard end shall be considered as damage if the pear shows an abnormally yellow color at the blossom end, or an abnormally smooth rounded base with little or no depression at the calyx, or if the flesh near the calyx is abnormally dry and tough or woody.
(b) Slight handling bruises and package bruises such as are incident to good commercial handling in the preparation of a tight pack shall not be considered damage.
(c) Any pear with one skin break larger than three-sixteenths inch in diameter of depth, or with more than one skin break one-eighth inch or larger in diameter or depth, shall be considered damaged, and scored against the grade tolerance.
2
(1) Small inconspicuous skin breaks, less than one-eighth inch in diameter or depth, shall not be considered damage. In addition, not more than 15 percent of the pears in any container may have not more than one skin break from one-eighth inch to three-sixteenths inch, inclusive, in diameter or depth.
2
(d) Russeting which exceeds the following shall be considered as damage:
(1) On all varieties excessively rough russeting (russeting which shows “frogging” or slight cracking) when the aggregate area exceeds one-half inch in diameter.
2
(2) On Anjou and other smooth-skinned varieties, slightly rough russeting, or thick russeting such as is characteristic of frost injury, when the aggregate area exceeds three-fourths inch in diameter.
2
(3) On Anjou, smooth solid or smooth netlike russeting when the aggregate area exceeds one-third of the surface, and on other smooth-skinned varieties,
15 percent of the surface, except that, in addition, on Anjou and other smooth-skinned varieties, any amount of characteristic smooth russeting shall be permitted on that portion of the calyx end not visible for more than one-half inch along the contour of the pear, when it is placed calyx end down on a flat surface.
(4) On any of the following and other similar varieties, rough or thick russeting such as is characteristic of frost injury, when the aggregate area exceeds three-fourths inch in diameter. On any of these varieties any amount of characteristic russeting is permitted whether due to natural causes such as weather or stimulated by artificial means; leaf whips or light limbrubs which resemble and blend into russeted areas shall be considered as russet:
Bosc, Clairgeau, Comice, Easter Beurre, Flemish Beauty, Kieffer, P. Barry, Pound, Seckel, Sheldon, Winter Nelis, and other similar varieties.
(e) Any one of the following defects or any combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as damage:
(1) Any limbrubs which are cracked, softened, or more than slightly depressed.
(2) Black discoloration caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of three-eighths inch in diameter.
(3) Dark brown discoloration or excessive roughness caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of one-half inch in diameter.
(4) Slightly rough, light colored discoloration caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of three-fourths inch in diameter.
(5) Smooth, light colored discoloration caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of 1 inch in diameter.
2
(6) Hail marks or other similar depressions or scars which are not shallow or superficial, or where the injury affects an aggregate area of more than three-eighths inch in diameter.
2
(7) Cork spot when more than one in number is visible externally or when the flesh is materially affected.
(8) Drought spot when more than one in number, or when the external injury exceeds an aggregate area of three-eighths inch in diameter, or when the appearance of the flesh is materially affected by corky tissue or brownish discoloration.
2
(9) Sunburn or sprayburn where the skin is blistered, cracked, or shows any light tan or brownish color, or the shape of the pear is appreciably flattened, or the flesh is appreciably softened or changed in color, except that sprayburn of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of russeting.
(10) Insects: (i) More than two healed codling moth stings, or any insect sting which is over three thirty-seconds of an inch in diameter, or other insect stings affecting the appearance to an equal extent.
2
(ii) Blister mite or canker worm injury which is not shallow or superficial, or where the injury affects an aggregate area of more than three-eighths inch in diameter.
2
(11) Disease: (i) Scab spots which are black and which cover an aggregate area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter, except that scab spots of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of russeting.
2
(ii) Sooty blotch which is thinly scattered over more than 5 percent of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than three-eighths inch in diameter.
2
§ 51.1322
Seriously misshapen.
Seriously misshapen
means that the pear is excessively flattened or elongated for the variety, or is constricted or deformed so it will not cut three fairly uniform good quarters, or is so badly misshapen that the appearance is seriously affected.
§ 51.1323
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any injury or defect which seriously affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality.
(a) Russeting which in the aggregate exceeds the following shall be considered as serious damage:
(1) On all varieties, excessively rough russeting (russeting which shows “frogging” or slight cracking) when the aggregate area exceeds three-fourths inch in diameter.
2
(2) On all varieties, thick russeting such as is characteristic of frost injury, 15 percent of the surface.
(3) On Anjou, smooth solid or smooth netlike russeting when the aggregate area exceeds two-thirds of the surface, except that, in addition, any amount of characteristic smooth russeting shall be permitted on that portion of the calyx end not visible for more than one-half inch along the contour of the pear, when it is placed calyx end down on a flat surface. On Flemish Beauty smooth russeting shall be permitted on the entire surface.
(b) Any one of the following defects or combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as serious damage:
(1) Limbrubs which are more than slightly cracked, or excessively rough limbrubs or dark brown or black discoloration caused by limbrubs which exceeds an aggregate area of three-fourths inch in diameter.
2
(2) Other limbrubs which affect an aggregate area of more than one-tenth of the surface.
(3) Hail marks or other similar depressions or scars which affect an aggregate area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter, or which materially deform or disfigure the fruit.
2
(4) Cork spot when more than two in number are visible externally or when the flesh is seriously affected.
(5) Drought spot when more than two in number, or where the external injury affects an aggregate area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter, or when the appearance of the flesh is seriously affected by corky tissue or brownish discoloration.
2
(6) Sunburn or sprayburn where the skin is blistered, cracked or shows any brownish color, or where the shape of the pear is materially flattened, or the flesh is softened or materially changed in color, except that sprayburn of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of russeting.
(7) Insects: (i) Worm holes. More than three healed codling moth stings, of which not more than two may be over three thirty-seconds of an inch in diameter, or other insect stings affecting the appearance to an equal extent.
2
(ii) Blister mite or canker worm injury which affects an aggregate area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter or which materially deforms or disfigures the fruit.
2
(8) Disease: (i) Scab spots which are black, and which cover an aggregate area of more than one-half inch in diameter, except that scab spots of a russet character shall be considered under the definition of russeting.
2
(ii) Sooty blotch which is thinly scattered over more than 15 percent of the surface, or dark heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than three-fourths inch in diameter.
2

# Subpart L—United States Standards for Grades of Pears for Processing

# Source:
35 FR 6957, May 1, 1970, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# General
§ 51.1345
General.
All percentages shall be calculated on the basis of weight.

# Grades
§ 51.1346
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of pears of one variety which are mature, handpicked, firm, well formed, free from scald, hard end, black end, internal breakdown, decay, worms and worm holes, and from damage caused by broken skins, limbrubs, sprayburn, sunburn, scab, russeting, bruises, hail, frost, drought spot, disease, insects, mechanical or other means. Unless otherwise specified, the pears shall not be further advanced than yellowish green. Tree-ripened pears and pears grown from late blooms shall not be considered as meeting the requirements of this grade. (See §§ 51.1349 and 51.1350.)
§ 51.1347
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of pears of one variety which are mature, handpicked, firm, not seriously deformed, free from scald, hard end, black end, internal breakdown, decay, worms and worm holes, and free from serious damage by
any other cause. Unless otherwise specified, the pears shall not be further advanced than yellowish green. Tree-ripened pears and pears grown from late blooms shall not be considered as meeting the requirements of this grade. (See §§ 51.1349 and 51.1350.)

# Culls
§ 51.1348
Culls.
“Culls” are pears which do not meet the requirements of either of the foregoing grades.

# Size
§ 51.1349
Size.
Size may be specified in connection with a grade by agreement between buyer and seller and stated in terms of minimum diameter or minimum and maximum diameters. Diameters shall be specified in inches and not less than eighth-inch fractions thereof. In addition, size may be stated in terms of ratio of length to diameter.

# Application of Standards
§ 51.1350
Application of standards.
(a) Tolerances shall not apply in the application of the standards to determine the percentages of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 quality, culls and off-size in a lot of pears; for example, when determining compliance with a grower-processor contract.
(b)
Tolerances.
The following tolerances, by weight, shall apply when a lot of pears has been sorted to meet a specific grade, such as a shipment to a processor which is intended to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 1 grade:
(1)
For defects.
10 percent for pears which fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(i) 2 percent for pears which are affected by decay.
(ii) 5 percent for pears which are infested by worms or have worm holes.
(2)
For off-size.
5 percent for pears which are smaller than any specified minimum size, and 10 percent for pears larger than any specified maximum size.

# Definitions
§ 51.1351
Mature.
Mature
means that the pear has reached the stage of maturity which will insure the proper completion of the ripening process.
§ 51.1352
Handpicked.
Handpicked
means that the pears do not show evidence of having been on the ground.
§ 51.1353
Firm.
Firm
means that the pear is fairly solid and yields only very slightly to moderate pressure, and is not wilted, shriveled, rubbery or flabby.
§ 51.1354
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the pear has the shape characteristic of the variety, so that after paring, cutting in halves, and coring, each half of the pear shall be well formed. Bartlett pears shall have at least a fairly well developed neck.
[35 FR 6958, May 1, 1970, as amended at 35 FR 7249, May 8, 1970. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 51.1355
Damage.
Damage
means any injury or defect which materially affects the processing quality of the fruit. After paring, cutting in halves, and coring, each half of the pear shall be well formed or the pear is considered damaged. Pears showing surface blemishes shall be considered damaged when the injury cannot be completely removed in the ordinary process of paring for commercial use.
§ 51.1356
Pears grown from late blooms.
Pears grown from late blooms.
Such pears often have excessively long stems (commonly termed “rat tails”), or may be misshapen or slightly rough. Such pears do not ripen properly for ordinary canning use.
§ 51.1357
Seriously deformed.
Seriously deformed
means that the pear is so badly misshapen as to cause a loss during the usual commercial
preparation for use of over 20 percent, by weight, of the pear in excess of that which would occur if the pear were well formed. Round or apple-shaped pears shall not be considered seriously deformed.
§ 51.1358
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any injury or defect which cannot be removed during the usual commercial preparation for use without a loss of over 20 percent, by weight, of the pear in excess of that which would occur if the pear were not defective.
§ 51.1359
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension of the pear taken at right angles to a line running from the stem to the blossom end.

# Subpart M—United States Standards for Grades of Pecans in the Shell

# Source:
89 FR 53341, June 26, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.1400
U.S. Extra Fancy.
“U.S. Extra Fancy” consists of pecans in the shell which meet the following requirements:
(a) Free from loose extraneous or foreign material.
(b) Shells are:
(1) Uniform in color; and
(2) Free from damage by any cause.
(c) Kernels are:
(1) Well developed;
(2) Well cured;
(3) Moisture content shall be not more than 6 percent, unless otherwise specified;
(4) Uniform in color and not darker than “light;” and
(5) Free from damage by any cause.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1406.
§ 51.1401
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of pecans in the shell which meet the following requirements:
(a) Free from loose extraneous or foreign material.
(b) Shells are:
(1) Uniform in color; and
(2) Free from damage by any cause.
(c) Kernels are:
(1) Fairly well developed;
(2) Well cured;
(3) Moisture content shall be not more than 6 percent, unless otherwise specified;
(4) Uniform in color;
(5) Not darker than “light amber,” unless specified to a lighter color classification; and
(6) Free from damage by any cause.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1406.
§ 51.1402
U.S. Choice.
“U.S. Choice” consists of pecans in the shell which meet the following requirements:
(a) Free from loose extraneous or foreign material.
(b) Shells are:
(1) Fairly uniform in color; and
(2) Free from damage by any cause.
(c) Kernels are:
(1) Not poorly developed;
(2) Well cured;
(3) Moisture content shall be not more than 6 percent, unless otherwise specified;
(4) Fairly uniform in color;
(5) Not darker than “amber,” unless specified to a lighter color classification; and
(6) Free from damage by any cause.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1406.
§ 51.1403
U.S. Standard.
“U.S. Standard” consists of pecans in the shell which meet the following requirements:
(a) Free from loose extraneous or foreign material;
(b) Kernels well cured;
(c) Moisture content shall be not more than 6 percent, unless otherwise specified;
(d) No requirement for fullness of kernel;
(e) No requirement for uniformity of color of shells or kernels;
(f) May contain kernels that are “dark amber” or darker, unless specified to a lighter color classification; and
(g) Shells and kernels are free from damage by any cause.
(h) For tolerances see § 51.1406.

# Size Classification
§ 51.1404
Size classification.
Size of pecans may be specified in connection with the grade in accordance with one of the following classifications. To meet the requirements for any one of the classifications in Table 1 to this section, the lot must conform to both the specified number of nuts per pound and the weight of the 10 smallest nuts per 100-nut sample.
Table 1 to § 51.1404
Size classification
Number of nuts
per pound
Minimum weight of the 10 smallest nuts per
100-nut sample
Jumbo
Extra Large
Large
55 or less
56 to 63
64 to 77
In each classification, the 10 smallest nuts per 100 must weigh at least 7% of the total weight of the 100-nut sample.
Medium
78 to 100
Small
101 or more

# Kernel Color Classification
§ 51.1405
Kernel color classification.
(a) The skin color of the pecan kernels are described in terms of the color classifications provided in this section. When specified to a lighter color classification, that color may be used to describe the lot in connection with the grade.
(1) Light means that the kernel is mostly golden color or lighter, with not more than 25 percent of the surface darker than golden, and none of the surface darker than light brown.
(2) Light amber means that more than 25 percent of the kernel is light brown, with not more than 25 percent of the surface darker than light brown, none of which is darker than medium brown.
(3) Amber means that more than 25 percent of the kernel is medium brown, with not more than 25 percent of the surface darker than medium brown, none of which is darker than dark brown (very dark brown or blackish-brown discoloration).
(4) Dark amber means that more than 25 percent of the kernel is dark brown, with not more than 25 percent of the surface darker than dark brown (very dark brown or blackish-brown discoloration).
(b) U.S. Department of Agriculture kernel color standards, PEC-MC-1, illustrate the color intensities implied by the terms “golden,” “light brown,” “medium brown,” and “dark brown” referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The color standards are available at
https://www.ams.usda.gov/grades-standards.

# Tolerances
§ 51.1406
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances are provided as specified:
(a)
U.S. Extra Fancy, U.S. Fancy, and U.S. Choice grades.
(1) For shell defects, by count: 5 percent for pecans with damaged shells, including therein not more than 2 percent for shells which are seriously damaged.
(2) For kernel defects, by count: 12 percent for pecans with kernels which fail to meet the requirements for the grade or any specified color classification, including therein not more than 7 percent for kernels which are seriously damaged:
Provided,
That not more than 6 percent shall be allowed for kernels which are rancid, moldy, decayed, or injured by insects:
Provided further,
That included in this 6 percent tolerance not more than 0.5 percent (one-half of 1 percent) shall be allowed for pecans with live insects inside the shell.
(3) For loose extraneous or foreign material, by weight: 0.5 percent (one-half of 1 percent).
(b)
U.S. Standard grade.
(1) For shell defects, by count: 10 percent for pecans with damaged shells, including therein not more than 3 percent for shells which are seriously damaged.
(2) For kernel defects, by count: 30 percent for pecans with kernels which
fail to meet the requirements for the grade or any specified color classification, including therein not more than 10 percent for kernels which are seriously damaged:
Provided,
That not more than 7 percent shall be allowed for kernels which are rancid, moldy, decayed, or injured by insects:
Provided further,
That included in this 7 percent tolerance not more than 0.5 percent (one-half of 1 percent) shall be allowed for pecans with live insects inside the shell.
(3) For loose extraneous or foreign material, by weight: 0.5 percent (one-half of 1 percent).

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1407
Application of tolerances.
Individual 100-count samples shall have not more than one and one-half times a specified tolerance of 5 percent or more and not more than double a tolerance of less than 5 percent, except that at least one pecan which is seriously damaged by live insects inside the shell is permitted:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.

# Sample for Grade or Size Determination
§ 51.1408
Sample for grade or size determination.
Each sample shall consist of 100 pecans. The individual sample shall be drawn at random from a sufficient number of packages to form a 100-count composite sample. The number of such individual 100-count samples drawn for grade or size determination will vary with the size of the lot. When practicable, at point of packaging the sample may be obtained from the grading belt after sorting has been completed.

# Definitions
§ 51.1409
Loose extraneous or foreign material.
Loose extraneous or foreign material
means loose hulls, empty broken shells, rocks, wood, glass, plastic, or any substance other than pecans in the shell or pecan kernels.
§ 51.1410
Well cured.
Well cured
means the kernel separates freely from the shell, breaks cleanly when bent without splintering, shattering, or loosening the skin; and the kernel appears to be in good shipping or storage condition as to moisture content.
§ 51.1411
Well developed.
Well developed
means that the kernel is full-meated throughout its width and length.
§ 51.1412
Fairly well developed.
Fairly well developed
means that the kernel is full-meated in over 50 percent of its width and length.
§ 51.1413
Poorly developed.
Poorly developed
means that the kernel is full-meated in less than 25 percent of its width and length.
§ 51.1414
Uniform in color.
Uniform in color
means that the shells do not show sufficient variation in color to detract from the general appearance of the lot and that 95 percent or more of the kernels in the lot have skin color within the range of one or two color classifications.
§ 51.1415
Fairly uniform in color.
Fairly uniform in color
means that the shells do not show sufficient variation in color to materially detract from the general appearance of the lot and that 85 percent or more of the kernels in the lot have skin color within the range of one or two color classifications.
§ 51.1416
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, or any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual pecan or the general appearance of the pecans in the lot. The following defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Adhering hull material or dark stains affecting an aggregate of more than 5 percent of the surface of the individual shell;
(b) Adhering material from inside the shell when firmly attached to more than one-third of the outer surface of the kernel and contrasting in color with the skin of the kernel;
(c) Broken shells when any portion of the shell is missing;
(d) Internal flesh discoloration of a medium shade of gray or brown extending more than one-fourth inch lengthwise beneath the center ridge, or any equally objectionable amount in other portions of the kernel; or lesser areas of dark discoloration affecting the appearance to an equal or greater extent;
(e) Kernels which are dark amber in color;
(f) Kernels which are not well cured;
(g) Kernel spots when more than one dark spot is present on either half of the kernel, or when any such spot is more than one-eighth inch in greatest dimension;
(h) Poorly developed kernels;
(i) Shriveling when the surface of the kernel is very conspicuously wrinkled; and
(j) Split or cracked shells when the shell is spread apart or will spread upon application of slight pressure.
§ 51.1417
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, or any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual pecan. The following defects shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Adhering hull material or dark stains affecting an aggregate of more than 20 percent of the individual shell;
(b) Broken shells when the missing portion of shell is greater in area than a circle one-fourth inch in diameter;
(c) Dark discoloration of the skin which is darker than dark amber over more than 25 percent of the surface of the kernel;
(d) Decay affecting any portion of the kernel;
(e) Insects, web, frass, or the kernel shows distinct evidence of insect feeding on the kernel;
(f) Internal flesh discoloration of a dark shade extending more than one-third the length of the kernel beneath the ridge, or an equally objectionable amount of dark discoloration in other portions of the kernel;
(g) Kernel spots when more than three dark spots on either half of the kernel, or when any spot or the aggregate of two or more spots on one of the halves of the kernel affects more than 10 percent of the surface;
(h) Mold, on the surface or inside the kernel, which is plainly visible without magnification;
(i) Rancidity when the kernel is distinctly rancid to the taste. Staleness of flavor shall not be classed as rancidity;

# Note 1 to § 51.1417(
i

# ):
Rancidity refers to the tendency of the oil in a pecan kernel to become tainted as a result of oxidation or hydrolysis. Industry measures to determine the tendency of a kernel to become rancid include testing the kernel's peroxide and free fatty acid values. Peroxide values should be less than 5 mEq/kg and free fatty acids acid value should be less than 1 percent. These analyses are not performed in determination of grade.
(j) Undeveloped kernels which are blank (complete shell containing no kernel); and
(k) Worm holes when penetrating the shell.
§ 51.1418
Inedible kernels.
Inedible kernels
means that the kernel or pieces of kernels are rancid, moldy, decayed, injured by insects or otherwise unsuitable for human consumption.

# Subpart N—United States Standards for Grades of Shelled Pecans

# Source:
89 FR 53343, June 26, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.1430
U.S. Extra Fancy.
“U.S. Extra Fancy” consists of pecan kernels which meet the following requirements:
(a) For quality:
(1) Well dried;
(2) Moisture content shall not be more than 4.5 percent, unless otherwise specified;
(3) Well developed;
(4) Uniform in color;
(5) Not darker than “light;”
(6) Free from damage by any cause; and
(7) Comply with tolerances for defects (see § 51.1437).
(b) For size:
(1) Uniform in size; and
(2) Conform to size classification or count specified.
§ 51.1431
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of pecan kernels which meet the following requirements:
(a) For quality:
(1) Well dried;
(2) Moisture content shall not be more than 4.5 percent, unless otherwise specified;
(3) Fairly well developed;
(4) Uniform in color;
(5) Not darker than “light amber,” unless specified to a lighter color classification;
(6) Free from damage by any cause; and
(7) Comply with tolerances for defects (see § 51.1437).
(b) For size:
(1) Uniform in size; and
(2) Conform to size classification or count specified.
§ 51.1432
U.S. Choice.
“U.S. Choice” consists of pecan kernels which meet the following requirements:
(a) For quality:
(1) Well dried;
(2) Moisture content shall not be more than 4.5 percent, unless otherwise specified;
(3) Not poorly developed;
(4) Fairly uniform in color;
(5) Not darker than “amber,” unless specified to a lighter color classification;
(6) Free from damage by any cause; and
(7) Comply with tolerances for defects (see § 51.1437).
(b) For size:
(1) Fairly uniform in size; and
(2) Conform to size classification or count specified.
§ 51.1433
U.S. Standard.
“U.S. Standard” consists of pecan kernels which meet the following requirements:
(a) For quality:
(1) Well dried;
(2) Moisture content shall not be more than 4.5 percent, unless otherwise specified;
(3) No requirement for fullness of kernel;
(4) No requirement for uniformity of color;
(5) May contain kernels “dark amber” or darker, unless specified to a lighter color classification;
(6) Free from damage by any cause; and
(7) Comply with tolerances for defects (see § 51.1437).
(b) For size:
(1) No uniformity in size; and
(2) Conform to size classification or count specified.

# Color Classifications
§ 51.1434
Color classifications.
(a) The skin color of pecan kernels is described in terms of the color classifications provided in this section. When specified to a lighter color classification, that color may be used to describe the lot in connection with the grade.
(1) Light means that the kernel is mostly golden color or lighter, with not more than 25 percent of the surface darker than golden, and none of the surface darker than light brown.
(2) Light amber means that the kernel has more than 25 percent of the surface light brown, but not more than 25 percent of surface darker than light brown, and none of the surface darker than medium brown.
(3) Amber means that the kernel has more than 25 percent of the surface medium brown, but not more than 25 percent of surface darker than medium brown, and none of the surface darker than dark brown (very dark brown or blackish-brown discoloration).
(4) Dark amber means that the kernel has more than 25 percent of the surface dark brown, but not more than 25 percent of surface darker than dark brown (very dark brown or blackish-brown discoloration).
(b) U.S. Department of Agriculture kernel color standards, PEC-MC-1, illustrate the color intensities implied by the terms “golden,” “light brown,” “medium brown,” and “dark brown” referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The color standards are available at:
https://www.ams.usda.gov/grades-standards.

# Size Classifications
§ 51.1435
Size classifications for halves.
The size of pecan halves in a lot may be specified in accordance with one of the size classifications shown in table 1 to this section.
(a)
Halves per pound.
The number of halves per pound shall be based upon the weight of half-kernels after all pieces, meal and flour, shell, center wall, and foreign material have been removed.
(b)
Tolerance for count per pound.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing, a tolerance shall be permitted as follows:
(1) When an exact number of halves per pound is specified, the actual count per pound may vary not more than 5 percent from the specified number, and
(2) When any size classification shown in table 1 to this section or a range in count per pound is specified, no tolerance shall be allowed for counts outside of the specified range.
(c)
Tolerances for pieces, meal, and flour.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing and handling, tolerances are provided for pieces, meal, and flour in any lot of halves. The tolerances, by weight, are as shown in table 2 to this section.
Table 1 to § 51.1435
Size classification for halves
Number of halves @per pound
Mammoth
250 or less.
Junior Mammoth
251-350.
Jumbo
351-450.
Large
451-550.
Medium
551-650.
Topper
651-750.
King Topper
751 or more.
In lieu of the size classifications in this table, the size of pecan halves in a lot may be specified in terms of the number of halves or a range of number of halves per pound. For example, “400” or “600-700.”
Table 2 to § 51.1435
Tolerances for pieces, meal, and flour
U.S.
extra fancy
premier
halves
(%)
U.S.
extra fancy
halves
(%)
U.S.
fancy
halves
(%)
U.S.
choice
halves
(%)
U.S.
standard
halves
(%)
A. Less than
7/8
half-kernel
10
B. Less than
3/4
half-kernel
10
15
20
20
C. Less than
1/2
half-kernel (included in A.—U.S. Extra Fancy Premier Halves) (included in B.—U.S. Extra Fancy Halves, U.S. Fancy Halves, U.S. Choice Halves, and U.S. Standard Halves)
3
3
5
5
5
D. Less than
4/64
″ (included in C.)
1
1
1
1
1
§ 51.1436
Size classifications for pieces.
The size of pecan pieces in a lot may be specified in accordance with one of the size classifications shown in table 1 to this section. Sizes are measured using a round-hole screen.
(a)
Tolerances for size of pieces.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing, tolerances are provided for pieces in a lot which fail to meet the requirements of any size specified. The tolerances, by weight, are as follows:
(1)
U.S. Extra Fancy pieces and U.S. Fancy pieces.
Not more than 15 percent of the lot may fall outside of the size range in Table 1 to this section. Further, not more than 1 percent of the
pieces, excluding Topping Pieces and Granules, may pass through an eight sixty-fourths of an inch round hole screen.
(2)
U.S. Choice pieces.
Not more than 20 percent of the lot may fall outside of the size range in Table 1 to this section. Further, not more than 2 percent of the pieces, excluding Topping Pieces and Granules, may pass through an eight sixty-fourths of an inch round hole screen.
(3)
U.S. Standard pieces.
Not more than 25 percent of the lot may fall outside of the size range in table 1 to this section. Further, not more than 2 percent of the pieces, excluding Topping Pieces and Granules, may pass through an eight sixty-fourths of an inch round hole screen.
(b) [Reserved]
Table 1 to § 51.1436
Size classification
Maximum diameter
(will pass through
round opening of the
following diameter)
Minimum diameter
(will not pass through
round opening of the
following diameter)
Extra-Large Pieces
No limitation
32/64
inch.
Large Pieces
32/64
inch
24/64
inch.
Halves and Pieces
No limitation
20/64
inch.
Medium Pieces
24/64
inch
16/64
inch.
Small Pieces
16/64
inch
12/64
inch.
Topping Pieces
12/64
inch
8/64
inch.
Granules
8/64
inch
4/64
inch.
In lieu of the size classifications in this table, the size of pieces in a lot may be specified in terms of minimum diameter, or as a range described in terms of minimum and maximum diameters expressed in sixty-fourths of an inch.

# Tolerances for Defects
§ 51.1437
Tolerances for defects.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by weight, are as follows:
(a) U.S. Extra Fancy grade:
(1) No foreign material;
(2) 0.01 percent for shell, and center wall;
(3) Zero tolerance is provided for pecan weevil larvae;
(4) 3 percent for portions of kernels which are “light amber” or darker color, or darker than any specified lighter color classification, but which are not otherwise defective; and
(5) 3 percent for portions of kernels which fail to meet the remaining requirements of the grade, including therein not more than 0.50 percent (one-half of 1 percent) for defects causing serious damage:
Provided,
That any unused portion of this tolerance may be applied to increase the tolerance for kernels which are “light amber” or darker color, or darker than any specified lighter color classification.
(b) U.S. Fancy grade:
(1) No foreign material;
(2) 0.01 percent for shell and center wall;
(3) No more than 2 pecan weevil larvae;
(4) 5 percent for portions of kernels which are “amber” or darker color, or darker than any specified lighter color classification, but which are not otherwise defective; and
(5) 5 percent for portions of kernels which fail to meet the remaining requirements of the grade, including therein not more than 0.50 percent (one-half of 1 percent) for defects causing serious damage, including pecan weevil larvae:
Provided,
That any unused portion of this tolerance may be applied to increase the tolerance for kernels which are “amber” or darker color, or darker than any specified lighter color classification.
(c) U.S. Choice grade:
(1) No foreign material;
(2) 0.01 percent for shell and center wall;
(3) No more than 5 pecan weevil larvae;
(4) 15 percent for portions of kernels which are “dark amber” or darker color, or darker than any specified lighter color classification, but which are not otherwise defective; and
(5) 8 percent for portions of kernels which fail to meet the remaining requirements of the grade, including therein not more than 1 percent for defects causing serious damage, including pecan weevil larvae.
(d) U.S. Standard grade:
(1) No foreign material;
(2) 0.01 percent for shell and center wall;
(3) 25 percent for portions of kernels which are darker than a specified color classification, but which are not otherwise defective; and
(4) 15 percent for portions of kernels which fail to meet the remaining requirements of the grade, including therein not more than 1 percent for defects causing serious damage, including pecan weevil larvae.

# Application of Standards
§ 51.1438
Application of standards.
The grade of a lot of shelled pecans shall be determined on the basis of a composite sample drawn at random from containers in various locations in the lot. However, any identifiable container or number of containers in which the pecans are obviously of a quality or size materially different from that in the majority of containers, shall be considered as a separate lot, and shall be sampled and graded separately.

# Definitions
§ 51.1439
Premier half-kernel (Premier halves).
Premier half-kernel (Premier halves)
means one of the separated halves of an entire pecan kernel with not more than one-eighth of its original volume missing, exclusive of the portion which formerly connected the two halves of the kernel.
§ 51.1440
Half-kernel (Halves).
Half-kernel (Halves)
means one of the separated halves of an entire pecan kernel with not more than one-fourth of its original volume missing, exclusive of the portion which formerly connected the two halves of the kernel.
§ 51.1441
Piece.
Piece
means a portion of a kernel which is less than three-fourths of a half-kernel, but which will not pass through a round opening four sixty-fourths (4/64) of an inch in diameter.
§ 51.1442
Meal and flour.
Meal and flour
means fragments of kernels which will pass through a round opening four sixty-fourths (4/64) of an inch in diameter.
§ 51.1443
Well dried.
Well dried
means that the portion of kernel is firm and crisp, not pliable, or leathery.
§ 51.1444
Well developed.
Well developed
means that the kernel is full-meated through its width and length.
§ 51.1445
Fairly well developed.
Fairly well developed
means that the kernel is full-meated in over 50 percent of its width and length.
§ 51.1446
Poorly developed.
Poorly developed
means that the kernel is full-meated in less than 25 percent of its width and length.
§ 51.1447
Uniform in color.
Uniform in color
means that 95 percent or more of the kernels in the lot have skin color within the range of one or two color classifications.
§ 51.1448
Fairly uniform in color.
Fairly uniform in color
means that 85 percent or more of the kernels in the lot have skin color within the range of one or two color classifications.
§ 51.1449
Uniform in size.
Uniform in size
means that, in a representative sample of 100 halves, the 10 smallest halves weigh not less than 25 percent as much as the 10 largest halves.
§ 51.1450
Fairly uniform in size.
Fairly uniform in size
means that, in a representative sample of 100 halves, the 10 smallest halves weigh not less than 50 percent as much as the 10 largest halves.
§ 51.1451
Foreign material.
Foreign material
includes rocks, wood, glass, plastic, or any similar material. It does not include hard shell, center wall, or pecan weevil larvae.
§ 51.1452
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, or any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual portion of the kernel or of the lot as a whole. The following defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Adhering material from inside the shell when attached to more than one-fourth of the surface on one side of the half-kernel or piece;
(b) Dust or dirt adhering to the kernel when conspicuous;
(c) Internal flesh discoloration of a medium shade of gray or brown extending more than one-fourth the length of the half-kernel or piece, or lesser areas of dark discoloration affecting the appearance to an equal or greater extent;
(d) Kernel which is not well dried;
(e) Kernel which is “dark amber” or darker color;
(f) Kernel having more than one dark kernel spot, or one dark kernel spot more than one-eighth inch in greatest dimension;
(g) Poorly developed kernel; and
(h) Shriveling when the surface of the kernel is very conspicuously wrinkled.
§ 51.1453
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, or any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual portion of kernel or of the lot as a whole. The following defects shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Adhering material from inside the shell when attached to more than one-half of the surface on one side of the half-kernel or piece;
(b) Any plainly visible mold;
(c) Dark kernel spots when more than three are on the kernel, or when any dark kernel spot or the aggregate of two or more spots affect an area of more than 10 percent of the surface of the half-kernel or piece;
(d) Dark skin discoloration, darker than “dark brown,” when covering more than one-fourth of the surface of the half-kernel or piece;
(e) Decay affecting any portion of the kernel;
(f) Insects, web, or frass or any distinct evidence of insect feeding on the kernel;
(g) Internal discoloration, which is dark gray, dark brown, or black and extends more than one-third the length of the half-kernel or piece; and
(h) Rancidity when the kernel is distinctly rancid to taste. Staleness of flavor shall not be classed as rancidity.

# Note 1 to § 1453(
h

# ):
Rancidity refers to the tendency of the oil in a pecan kernel to become tainted as a result of oxidation or hydrolysis. Industry measures to determine the tendency of a kernel to become rancid include testing the kernel's peroxide and free fatty acid values. Peroxide values should be less than 5 mEq/kg and free fatty acids acid value should be less than 1 percent. These analyses are not performed in determination of grade.

# Subpart O—United States Standards for Grades of Fresh Plums and Prunes

# Source:
69 FR 9193, Feb. 27, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.1520
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of plums or prunes of one variety which are well formed, clean, mature but not overripe or soft or shriveled; which are free from decay, sunscald, heat injury, sunburn, split pits and hail marks, and free from damage caused by broken skins, growth cracks, drought spots, gum spots, russeting, scars, other disease, insects or mechanical or other means.
(a) Italian type prunes shall be well colored and, unless otherwise specified, shall be not less than 1
1/4
inches in diameter. (
See
§ 51.1525.)
(b) [Reserved]
§ 51.1521
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of plums or prunes of one variety which are well formed, clean, mature but not overripe or soft or shriveled; which are free from decay and sunscald, and free from damage caused by broken skins, heat injury, growth cracks, sunburn, split pits, hail marks, drought spots, gum spots, russeting, scars, other disease, insects or mechanical or other means.
(a) Italian type prunes shall be fairly well colored and, unless otherwise specified, shall be not less than 1
1/4
inches in diameter. (
See
§ 51.1525.)
(b) [Reserved]
§ 51.1522
U.S. Combination.
“U.S. Combination” consists of a combination of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 plums or prunes:
Provided,
That at least 75 percent, by count, meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade. (
See
§ 51.1525.)
§ 51.1523
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of plums or prunes of one variety which are not badly misshapen, which are clean, mature but not overripe or soft or shriveled; which are free from decay and sunscald, and free from serious damage caused by broken skins, heat injury, growth cracks, sunburn, split pits, hail marks, drought spots, gum spots, russeting, scars, other disease, insects or mechanical or other means. (
See
§ 51.1525.)
§ 51.1524
[Reserved]

# Tolerances
§ 51.1525
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the following grades, the following tolerances, by count, based on a minimum 50-count sample, except when packages contain less than 50 fruit, a minimum 25-count sample shall be examined, (when packages contain less than 25 fruit adjoining packages shall be opened to obtain the 25-count minimum sample), are provided as specified:
(a)
U.S. Fancy and U.S. No. 1
—(1)
For defects of plums or prunes other than Italian type prunes at shipping point.
1
8 percent for fruit which fails to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 4 percent shall be allowed for defects causing serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than one-half of 1 percent for fruit which is affected by decay.
1
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(2)
For defects of plums or prunes other than Italian type prunes en route or at destination.
12 percent for fruit which fails to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(i) 8 percent for permanent defects;
(ii) 6 percent for defects causing serious damage, including therein not more than 4 percent for serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 2 percent for decay.
(3)
For defects of Italian type prunes at shipping point.
1
Not more than a total of 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(i) 10 percent for prunes which fail to meet the color requirement;
(ii) 10 percent for prunes which fail to meet the minimum diameter requirement;
(iii) 8 percent for prunes which fail to meet the remaining requirements of the grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this amount, or 4 percent, shall be allowed for defects causing serious damage, including in the latter amount not more than one-half of 1 percent for decay.
(4) For defects of Italian type prunes en route or at destination. Not more than a total of 18 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more
than the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(i) 12 percent for permanent defects including therein not more than 10 percent which fail to meet the color requirement, 10 percent which fail to meet the minimum diameter requirement, and 8 percent which fail to meet the requirements of the grade because of other permanent defects;
(ii) 6 percent for defects causing serious damage, including therein not more than 4 percent for serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 2 percent for decay.
(b)
U.S. Combination and U.S. No. 2
—(1)
For defects at shipping point.
1
8 percent for fruit which fails to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 4 percent shall be allowed for sunscald, decay or serious damage by insects or heat injury, including in this latter amount not more than one-half of 1 percent for decay.
(2)
For defects en route or at destination.
12 percent for fruit which fails to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(i) 8 percent for permanent defects including therein not more than 4 percent for sunscald, or serious damage by insects or heat injury; and,
(ii) 2 percent for decay.
(3) When applying the tolerance for the U.S. Combination grade individual packages may have not more than 10 percent less than the percentage of U.S. No. 1 required:
Provided,
That the entire lot averages within the required percentage. (
See
§ 51.1526.)

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1526
Application of tolerances.
The contents of individual packages in the lot, based on sample inspection, are subject to the following limitations:
(a) A package may contain not more than double any specified tolerance except that at least two defective and two off-size specimens may be permitted in any package:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.
(b) [Reserved]

# Standard Pack
§ 51.1527
Standard pack.
(a)
Packing.
(1) All packages shall be tightly packed or well filled, according to the approved and recognized methods.
(2) The plums or prunes in the top layer of any package shall be reasonably representative in quality and size of those in the remainder of the package.
(3) “Well filled” means that the plums or prunes packed in loose or volume filled containers are packed within 1 inch of the top of the container.
(4) “Tightly packed” means the plums or prunes are the proper size for the mold or cell compartments in which they are packed, and the molds or cells are filled in such a way that movement is not allowed.
(b)
Marking.
(1) The size of plums or prunes shall be marked on each package, and shall be indicated in terms of minimum diameter, or number of fruit per package, or in accordance with the arrangement of the top layer of fruit in the package or subcontainer. Size may also be shown in terms of maximum number of fruit for a specified weight, such as “8 per pound,” “6.4 per pound” or “7
2/3
per pound” or by a count-size designation based on the number of fruits contained in a 10 pound sample with the designation rounded to an applicable number which is divisible by 5 (example: 40 size, 45 size, 50 size, 55 size, etc.).
(i)
California peach boxes, lug boxes and small consumer packages.
In layer-packed California peach boxes or lug boxes, and in small layer packed consumer packages, the count of the entire contents shall be marked on the package. The number of plums or prunes in California peach boxes or lug boxes shall not vary more than 4 from the number indicated on the package. Loose filled consumer packs not in a master container shall have a count-size marked on the package or on a tag closure. Master containers of loose filled consumer packages shall have a
count-size marked on the package describing the size of plums or prunes within the container.
(ii)
Face and fill packs in cartons and lug boxes.
In face and fill packs in cartons and lug boxes the number of rows in the face shall be marked on the packages, as “6 row,” “8 row,” etc.
(c)
Sizing.
(1) Not more than 5 percent, by count, of the plums or prunes in any package may vary more than one-fourth inch in diameter, except that not more than 5 percent, by count, of the plums or prunes 2-1/4 inches or larger in diameter and packed in loose or volume filled containers may vary more than three-eighths inch in diameter.
(2) When size is indicated in terms of minimum diameter, not more than 5 percent, by count, of the fruit in any package may be smaller than the size marked.
(d)
Tolerance for standard pack.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing and packing, not more than 10 percent, by count, of the packages in any lot may fail to meet the requirements for standard pack.

# Definitions
§ 51.1528
Well formed.
“Well formed” means that the fruit has the shape characteristic of the variety. Doubles shall not be considered well formed.
§ 51.1529
Clean.
“Clean” means that the fruit is practically free from dirt and other foreign material.
§ 51.1530
Mature.
“Mature” means that the fruit has reached the stage of maturity which will insure a proper completion of the ripening process.
§ 51.1531
Sunscald.
“Sunscald” means injury caused by the sun in which softening or collapse of the flesh is apparent.
§ 51.1532
Damage.
“Damage” means any specific defect defined in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Broken skins which are unhealed except those caused by pulled stems where the skin is torn only slightly within the stem cavity. (Healed skin breaks shall be considered scars);
(b) Heat injury, sprayburn or sunburn:
(1) When the skin is blistered, cracked or decidedly flattened;
(2) When the normal color of the skin or flesh has materially changed;
(3) When there is more than one indentation; or,
(4) When an indentation exceeds three-sixteenths inch in diameter;
(c) Growth cracks:
(1) When not healed;
(2) When more than one in number;
(3) When more than one-eighth inch in depth;
(4) When more than three-eighths inch in length if within the stem cavity; or,
(5) When more than one-fourth inch in length if outside of the stem cavity;
(6) When extending from within to outside the stem cavity, when more than three-eighths inch in length if the major portion of the crack is within the stem cavity or when more than one-fourth inch in length if the major portion of the crack is outside the stem cavity;
(d) Split pit when causing any unhealed crack, or when healed and aggregating more than one-fourth inch in length, or when affecting the shape to the extent that the fruit is not well formed;
(e) Scab or bacterial spot when cracked, or when the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle three-eighths inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter;
(f) Drought spots or external gum spots which have an aggregate area exceeding that of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter;
(g) Scale or scale marks when the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter;
(h) Scars, including those caused by hail, when the surface of the fruit is depressed more than one-sixteenth inch, or when exceeding any of the following aggregate areas, or a combination of two or more types of scars the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one type:
(1) Dark or rough scars when the area exceeds that of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the area exceeds that of a circle three-eighths inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter.
(2) Fairly light colored, fairly smooth scars when, in the case of Italian type prunes, the area exceeds that of a circle one-half inch in diameter; or when, in the case of other types of plums, the area exceeds that of a circle one-half inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the area exceeds that of a circle five-eighths inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter;
(3) Light colored, smooth scars when, in the case of Italian type prunes, the area exceeds one-twelfth of the fruit surface; or when, in the case of other types of plums, the area exceeds that of a circle three-fourths inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the area exceeds that of a circle seven-eighths inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter;
(4) Twig or limb scratches which are not well healed or which have an aggregate length of more than one-half inch;
(i) Russeting which exceeds any of the following aggregate areas of any one type of russeting, or a combination of two or more types of russeting the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one type:
(1) Rough russeting when the area exceeds that of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the area exceeds that of a circle one-half inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter;
(2) Slightly rough russeting when, in the case of Italian type prunes, the area exceeds one-twelfth of the fruit surface; or when, in the case of other types of plums, the area exceeds that of a circle five-eighths inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the area exceeds that of a circle three-fourths inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter;
(3) Fairly smooth or smooth russeting when, in the case of Italian type prunes, the area exceeds one-twelfth of the fruit surface; or when, in the case of other types of plums the area exceeds that of a circle three-fourths inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the area exceeds that of a circle 1 inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter.
(j) Discoloration when definitely contrasting with the normal surface color of the fruit and affects more than 10 percent of the surface.
§ 51.1533
Well colored.
“Well colored,” as applied to Italian type prunes, means that 95 percent of the surface of the prune is purple color.
§ 51.1534
Fairly well colored.
“Fairly well colored,” as applied to Italian type prunes, means that at least three-fourths of the surface of the prune is purple color.
§ 51.1535
Badly misshapen.
“Badly misshapen” means that the fruit is so malformed or rough that its appearance is seriously affected. Doubles shall be considered badly misshapen, except that doubles of Italian type prunes which have approximately equal halves shall not be considered badly misshapen.
§ 51.1536
Serious damage.
“Serious damage” means any specific defect defined in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit. The following specific defects shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Broken skins which are unhealed when aggregating more than one-eighth inch in diameter, length or depth. (Healed skin breaks shall be considered scars);
(b) Heat injury, sprayburn or sunburn:
(1) When the skin is blistered, cracked or decidedly flattened;
(2) When causing any dark discoloration of the flesh;
(3) When there are more than two indentations;
(4) When the aggregate area of indentations exceeds that of a circle three-eighths inch in diameter; or,
(5) When causing noticeable brownish or darker discoloration over more than one-fourth of the fruit surface;
(c) Growth cracks:
(1) When not healed and more than one-eighth inch in length or depth;
(2) When healed and more than three-sixteenths inch in depth;
(3) When healed and aggregating more than five-eighths inch in length if within the stem cavity; or,
(4) When healed and aggregating more than one-half inch in length if outside of the stem cavity;
(5) When extending from within to outside the stem cavity, when healed and aggregating more than five-eighths inch in length if the major portion of the crack is within the stem cavity or when healed and aggregating more than one-half inch in length if the major portion of the crack is outside the cavity;
(d) Split pit when causing any unhealed crack, or when healed and aggregating more than three-eighths inch in length, or when affecting the shape to the extent that the fruit is badly misshapen;
(e) Scab or bacterial spot, when the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle one-half inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle three-fourths inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter;
(f) Drought spots or external gum spots which have an aggregate area exceeding that of a circle one-half inch in diameter;
(g) Scale or scale marks when the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle three-eighths inch in diameter;
(h) Russeting and scars, including those caused by hail, when the surface of the fruit is depressed more than three-sixteenths inch, or when exceeding any of the following aggregate areas, or a combination of two or more types of russeting or scars the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one type:
(1) Dark or rough scars or rough russeting when the area exceeds that of a circle three-fourths inch in diameter on a fruit 2 inches in diameter or smaller; or when the area exceeds that of a circle one inch in diameter on a fruit larger than 2 inches in diameter;
(2) Russeting and scars which are not dark or rough when the area exceeds one-fourth of the fruit surface.
(i) Soft or overripe or shriveled plums or prunes;
(j) Plums or prunes affected by decay; and
(k) Plums or prunes affected by sunscald.
(l) Discoloration when definitely contrasting with the normal surface color and affects more than 25 percent of the surface.
§ 51.1537
Diameter.
“Diameter” means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a line from the stem to blossom end of the fruit.

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.1538
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters
(mm)
1/8
equals
3.2
1/4
equals
6.4
3/8
equals
9.5
1/2
equals
12.7
5/8
equals
15.9
3/4
equals
19.1
7/8
equals
22.2
1 equals
25.4
1
1/4
equals
31.8
1
1/2
equals
38.1
1
3/4
equals
44.5
2 equals
50.8
3 equals
76.2
4 equals
101.6

# Subpart P—United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes

# Source:
35 FR 18258, Dec. 1, 1970, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.1540
[Reserved]
§ 51.1541
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of potatoes which meet the following requirements:
(a) Similar varietal characteristics, except when designated as a mixed or specialty pack;
(b) Firm;
(c) Fairly clean;
2
2
Potatoes in containers bearing official State Seed Certification Tags and Seals are not required to be fairly clean but shall be free from damage by dirt.
(d) Fairly well shaped;
(e) Free from:
(1) Freezing;
(2) Blackheart;
(3) Late blight, southern bacterial wilt and ring rot; and,
(4) Soft rot and wet breakdown.
(f) Free from damage by any other cause. See §§ 51.1564 and 51.1565.
(g) Size. Not less than 1
7/8
inches in diameter, unless otherwise specified in connection with the grade.
(h) For tolerances see § 51.1546.
[35 FR 18258, Dec. 1, 1970, as amended at 76 FR 31789, June 2, 2011]
§ 51.1542
U.S. Commercial.
“U.S. Commercial” consists of potatoes which meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade except for the following:
(a) Free from serious damage caused by:
(1) Dirt or other foreign matter;
(2) Russet scab; and,
(3) Rhizoctonia.
(b) Increased tolerances for defects specified in § 51.1546.
§ 51.1543
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of potatoes which meet the following requirements:
(a) Similar varietal characteristics, except when designated as a mixed or specialty pack;
(b) Not seriously misshapen;
(c) Free from:
(1) Freezing;
(2) Blackheart;
(3) Late blight, southern bacterial wilt and ring rot; and,
(4) Soft rot and wet breakdown.
(d) Free from serious damage by any other cause. See §§ 51.1564 and 51.1565.
(e) Size. Not less than 1
1/2
inches in diameter, unless otherwise specified in connection with the grade.
(f) For tolerances see § 51.1546.
[35 FR 18258, Dec. 1, 1970, as amended at 76 FR 31789, June 2, 2011]

# Unclassified
§ 51.1544
[Reserved]

# Size
§ 51.1545
Size.
(a) The minimum size, or minimum and maximum sizes may be specified in connection with the grade in terms of diameter or weight of the individual potato, or in accordance with one of the size designations in Table I or Table II:
Provided,
That sizes so specified shall not be in conflict with the basic size requirements for the grade.
(b) When size is designated as shown in Table II, the corresponding weight ranges shall apply. These size designations may be applied to potatoes packed in any size container: Provided, that the weight ranges are within the limits specified.
Table 1
Size designation
Minimum diameter
1
or weight
Inches
Ounces
Maximum diameter
1
or weight
Inches
Ounces
Creamer
3/4
(
3
)
1
5/8
(
3
)
Chef
2
3/4
8
4
1/2
28
Size A
2
1
7/8
(
3
)
(
3
)
(
3
)
Size B
1
1/2
(
3
)
2
1/4
(
3
)
Small
1
3/4
(
3
)
2
1/2
6
Medium
2
1/4
5
3
1/4
10
Large
3
10
4
1/2
28
1
Diameter means the greatest dimension at right angles to the longitudinal axis, without regard to the position of the stem end.
2
In addition to the minimum size specified, a lot of potatoes designated as Size A shall contain at least 40 percent of potatoes which are 2
1/2
inches in diameter or larger or 6 ounces in weight or larger.
3
No requirement.
Table II
[Ounces]
Size designation
Minimum weight
Maximum weight
Under 50
15
50
12
19
60
10
16
70
9
15
80
8
13
90
7
12
100
6
10
110
5
9
120
4
8
130
4
8
140
4
8
Over 140
4
8
[35 FR 18258, Dec. 1, 1970, as amended at 37 FR 2745, Feb. 5, 1972. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981; amended at 56 FR 7553, Feb. 25, 1991; 73 FR 15055, Mar. 21, 2008; 73 FR 70585, Nov. 21, 2008]

# Tolerances
§ 51.1546
Tolerances.
To allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances by weight or equivalent basis, are provided as specified.
(a)
For defects
—(1)
U.S. No. 1.
(i)
At Shipping Point:
A total of 8 percent for potatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for the grade: Provided, That included in this tolerance not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(A) 5 percent for external defects;
(B) 5 percent for internal defects; and
(C) Not more than a total of 1 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown. See § 51.1547.
(ii)
En route or at destination:
A total of 10 percent for potatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for the grade: Provided, That included in this tolerance not more than a total of 8 percent shall be allowed for permanent defects: And provided further, the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(A) 7 percent for external defects, including therein not more than 5 percent for permanent external defects;
(B) 7 percent for internal defects, including therein not more than 5 percent for permanent internal defects; and
(C) Not more than a total of 2 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown. See § 51.1547.
(2)
U.S. Commercial:
A total of 20 percent for potatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for the grade: Provided, That included in this tolerance not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(i) 10 percent for potatoes which fail to meet the requirements for U.S. No. 2 grade, including therein not more than:
(ii) 6 percent for external defects;
(iii) 6 percent for internal defects; and
(iv) Not more than a total of 1 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown. See § 51.1547.
(3)
U.S. No. 2.
(i)
At Shipping Point:
A total of 10 percent for potatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for the grade: Provided, That included in this tolerance not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(A) 6 percent for external defects;
(B) 6 percent for internal defects; and
(C) Not more than a total of 1 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown. See § 51.1547.
(ii)
En route or at destination:
A total of 12 percent for potatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for
the grade: Provided, That included in this tolerance not more than a total of 10 percent shall be allowed for permanent defects: And provided further, the following percentages shall be allowed for the defects listed:
(A) 8 percent for external defects, including therein not more than 6 percent for permanent external defects;
(B) 8 percent for internal defects, including therein not more than 6 percent for permanent internal defects; and
(C) Not more than a total of 2 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown. See § 51.1547.
(b)
For off-size.
(1) Not more than 3 percent of the potatoes in any lot may be smaller than the required or specified minimum size except that a tolerance of 5 percent shall be allowed for potatoes packed to meet a minimum size of 2
1/4
inches or larger in diameter or 5 ounces or more in weight. In addition, not more than 10 percent may be larger than any required or specified maximum size. See § 51.1547.
(2) When a percentage of the potatoes is specified to be of a certain size and larger, individual samples shall have not less than one-half of the percentage specified:
Provided,
That the average for the entire lot is not less than the percentage specified.
[35 FR 18258, Dec. 1, 1970. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981; amended at 56 FR 7553, Feb. 25, 1991; 73 FR 15055, Mar. 21, 2008; 73 FR 70585, Nov. 21, 2008; 76 FR 31789, June 2, 2011]

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1547
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples shall have not more than double the tolerances specified, except that at least one defective and one off-size potato may be permitted in any sample:
Provided,
That en route or at destination one-tenth of the samples may contain three times the tolerance permitted for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown:
And provided further,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.

# Samples for Grade and Size Determination
§ 51.1548
Samples for grade and size determination.
Individual samples shall consist of at least 20 pounds. When individual packages contain at least 20 pounds, each individual sample is drawn from one package; when packages contain less than 20 pounds, a sufficient number of adjoining packages are opened to provide at least a 20-pound sample. The number of such individual samples drawn for grade and size determination will vary with the size of the lot.

# Skinning
§ 51.1549
Skinning.
(a) The following definitions provide a basis for describing lots of potatoes as to the degree of skinning whenever description may be appropriate:
(1) “Practically no skinning” means that not more than 5 percent of the potatoes in the lot have more than one-tenth of the skin missing or “feathered”;
(2) “Slightly skinned” means that not more than 10 percent of the potatoes in the lot have more than one-fourth of the skin missing or “feathered”;
(3) “Moderately skinned” means that not more than 10 percent of the potatoes in the lot have more than one-half of the skin missing or “feathered”; and
(4) “Badly skinned” means that more than 10 percent of the potatoes in the lot have more than one-half of the skin missing or “feathered”.

# Definitions
§ 51.1550
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the potatoes in any lot have the same general shape, color and character of skin, and color of flesh.
§ 51.1551
Firm.
Firm
means that the potato is not shriveled or flabby.
§ 51.1552
Clean.
Clean
means that at least 90 percent of the potatoes in any lot are practically free from dirt or staining and practically no loose dirt or other foreign matter is present in the container.
§ 51.1553
Fairly clean.
Fairly clean
means that at least 90 percent of the potatoes in any lot are reasonably free from dirt or staining and not more than a slight amount of loose dirt or foreign matter is present in the container.
§ 51.1554
Mature.
Mature
means that the skins of the potatoes are generally firmly set and not more than 5 percent of the potatoes in the lot have more than one-tenth of the skin missing or “feathered.”
§ 51.1555
Fairly well matured.
Fairly well matured
means that the skins of the potatoes are generally fairly firmly set and not more than 10 percent of the potatoes in the lot have more than one-fourth of the skin missing or “feathered.”
§ 51.1556
Well shaped.
Well shaped
means that the potato has the normal shape for the variety.
§ 51.1557
Fairly well shaped.
Fairly well shaped
means that the potato is not materially pointed, dumbbell-shaped or otherwise materially deformed.
§ 51.1558
Seriously misshapen.
Seriously misshapen
means that the potato is seriously pointed, dumbell-shaped or otherwise badly deformed.
§ 51.1559
[Reserved]
§ 51.1560
Damage.
“Damage” means any defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the edible or marketing quality, or the internal or external appearance of the potato, or any external defect which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato. See Tables III, IV, V and VI in § 51.1564 and Table VII in § 51.1565.
[76 FR 31789, June 2, 2011]
§ 51.1561
Serious damage.
“Serious damage” means any defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the edible or marketing quality, or the internal or external appearance of the potato, or any external defect which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato. See Tables III, IV, V and VI in § 51.1564 and Table VII in 5§ 1.1565.
[76 FR 31789, June 2, 2011]
§ 51.1562
Freezing.
Freezing
means that the potato is frozen or shows evidence of having been frozen.
§ 51.1563
Soft rot or wet breakdown.
Soft rot or wet breakdown
means any soft, mushy, or leaky condition of the tissue such as slimy soft rot, leak, or wet breakdown following freezing injury.
§ 51.1564
External defects.
External defects
are defects which can be detected externally. However, cutting may be required to determine the extent of the injury. Some external defects are listed in Tables III, IV, V and VI.
Table III—External Defects
Defects
Damage
Serious damage
1
Air Cracks
When removal causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato or when the air crack(s) affects more than
1/3
the length or diameter of the potato (whichever is greater) in the aggregate
When removal causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato or when the air crack(s) affects more than
3/4
the length or diameter of the potato (whichever is greater) in the aggregate.
Artificial Coloring
When unsightly or when concealing any defect causing damage or when penetrating the flesh and removal causes loss of more than 5 percent of total weight of potato
When concealing a serious defect or when penetrating into the flesh and removal causes loss of more than 10 percent of total weight of potato.
Bruises (Not including pressure bruise and sunken discolored areas)
When removal causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato or when the area affected is more than 5 percent of the surface in the aggregate (i.e.,
3/4
inch on a 2
1/2
inch or 6 oz. potato). Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes
When removal causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato or when the area affected is more than 10 percent of the surface in the aggregate (i.e., 1
1/4
inches on a 2
1/2
inch or 6 oz. potato). Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes.
Cuts
When one smooth cut affects more than 5 percent of the surface area
Cut(s) that affect more than 10 percent of the surface area in the aggregate or when a single side cut extends beyond
1/2
the length of the potato.
Dirt
When materially detracting from the appearance of the potato
When seriously detracting from the appearance of the potato.
Elephant Hide
When affecting over 10 percent of the surface area of the potato
When affecting over 25 percent of the surface area.
Enlarged Lenticels
When materially detracting from the appearance of the potato
When seriously detracting from the appearance of the potato.
External Discoloration (Areas that are light tan or lighter in color and blends should be ignored)
When more than 30 percent of the surface is affected by light tan or light brown colors which do not blend or when more than 15 percent of the surface is affected by colors darker than light tan or light brown
When more than 60 percent of the surface is affected by light tan or light brown colors which do not blend or when more than 30 percent of the surface is affected by colors darker than light tan or light brown.
Flattened or Depressed Areas/Pressure Bruises
When removal of underlying discolored flesh causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato or when the flattened or depressed area(s) covers more surface area than allowed in Table IV. (See Table IV.)
When removal of underlying discolored flesh the causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the weight of the potato or when the flattened depressed area(s) covers more surface area than allowed in the Table IV. (See Table IV.)
Flea Beetle Injury
When materially detracting from the appearance or when removal causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato or when the area affected is more than 5 percent of the surface in the aggregate
When seriously detracting from the appearance of the potato or when removal causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the weight of the potato or when the area affected is more than 10 percent of the surface in the aggregate.
Greening
When removal causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato or when green color affects more than 25 percent of the surface in the aggregate
When removal causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the weight of the potato or when green color affects more than 50 percent of the surface in the aggregate.
Growth Cracks
When the growth crack(s) affects more than
1/2
the length of the potato in the aggregate on round varieties or more than
1/3
the length in the aggregate on long varieties; or, when the depth is greater than that as outlined in Table V. (
See
Table V.)
When the growth crack(s) affects more than
3/4
the length of the potato in the aggregate or when the depth is greater than that as outlined in Table V. (
See
Table V.).
Grub Damage
When removal causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato or when affecting more than 5 percent of the surface area (i.e. more than
3/4
inch on a 2
1/2
inch or 6 ounce potato). Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes
When removal causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato or when affecting more than 10 percent of the surface area (i.e. more than 1
1/4
inch on a 2
1/2
inch or 6 ounce potato). Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes.
Insects or Worms
(See Serious Damage.)
When present inside the potato.
Nematode (Root Knot)
When removal causes loss of more than 5 percent of total weight of potato
When removal causes loss of more than 10 percent of total weight of potato.
Rhizoctonia
When affecting more than 15 percent of the surface in the aggregate
When affecting more than 50 percent of the surface in the aggregate.
Russeting (On Non Russet Type)
When more than 50 percent of the surface is affected in the aggregate
N/A.
Rodent or Bird Damage
When removal causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato or when affecting more than 5 percent of the surface area (i.e. more than
3/4
inch on a 2
1/2
inch or 6 ounce potato). Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes
When removal causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato or when affecting more than 10 percent of the surface area (i.e. more than 1
1/4
inch on a 2
1/2
inch or 6 ounce potato). Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes.
Scab, Pitted
When removal causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato or when scab affects an aggregate area of more than
1/2
inch. (Based on a potato 2
1/2
inches in diameter or 6 oz. in weight.) Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes
When the removal causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato or when scab affects an aggregate area of more than 1 inch. (Based on a potato 2
1/2
inches in diameter or 6 oz. in weight.) Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes.
Scab, Russet
Smooth and affecting more than
1/3
of the surface or rough russet scab which affects more than 10 percent of the surface in the aggregate
Rough and affecting more than 25 percent of the surface in the aggregate.
Scab, Surface
When more than 5 percent of the surface in the aggregate is affected
When more than 25 percent of the surface in the aggregate is affected.
Second Growth
When materially detracting from the appearance of the potato
When seriously detracting from the appearance of the potato.
Silver Scurf
When affecting more than 50 percent of the surface area of the potato
When its severity causes a wrinkling of the skin over more than 50 percent of the surface.
Sprouts
When more than 5 percent of the potatoes in any lot have any sprout more than
1/4
inch in length at shipping point; more than
1/2
inch in length at destination; or have numerous individual and/or clusters of sprouts which materially detract from the appearance of the potato
When more than 10 percent of the potatoes in any lot have any sprout more than
1/2
inch in length at shipping point; more than 1 inch in length at destination; or have numerous individual and/or clusters of sprouts which seriously detract from the appearance of the potato. Serious damage by sprouts shall only be scored against the U.S. Commercial and U.S. No. 2 grades.
Sunburn
When removal causes loss of more than 5 percent of total weight of potato
When removal causes loss more than 10 percent of total weight of potato.
Sunken Discolored Areas
SEE TABLE VI
SEE TABLE VI.
Surface Cracks (Areas affected by fine net-like cracking should be ignored.)
When smooth shallow cracking affects more than
1/3
of the surface or when rough deep cracking affects more than 5 percent of the surface
When rough deep cracking affects more than 10 percent of the surface.
Wireworm or Grass Damage
When affecting the flesh of the potato and removal causes loss of more than 5 percent of total weight of potato.
When affecting the flesh of the potato and removal causes loss of more than 10 percent of total weight of potato.
The following defects are considered serious damage when present in any degree: 1. Freezing. 2. Late blight. 3. Ring rot. 4. Southern bacterial wilt. 5. Soft rot. 6. Wet breakdown.
Table IV—Flattened or Depressed Areas—Pressure Bruises Maximum Area Allowed
Diameter
Weight
No. 1
(aggregate area)
No. 2
(aggregate area)
Potato is:
Potato is:
Not more than:
Not more than:
Less than 2 in
Less than 4 oz
1/2
in
1 in
2 to 2
1/2
in
4 to 6 oz
1 in
1
1/2
in
More than 2
1/2
to 3 in
More than 6 to 8 oz
1
1/4
in
1
3/4
in
More than 3 to 3
1/2
in
More than 8 to 14 oz
1
1/2
in
1
7/8
in
More than 3
1/2
to 4 in
More than 14 to 20 oz
1
3/4
in
2 in
More than 4 to 4
1/2
in
More than 20 to 28 oz
2 in
2
1/4
in
More than 4
1/2
to 5 in
More than 28 to 36 oz
2
1/4
in
2
3/4
in
More than 5 in
More than 36 oz
2
1/2
in
3
1/4
in
Table V—Depth Allowed for Growth Cracks
Diameter
Weight
No. 1
(depth)
No. 2
(depth)
Potato is:
Potato is:
Not more than:
Not more than:
Less than 2 in
Less than 4 oz
1/8
in
1/4
in
2 to 2
1/2
in
4 oz to 6 oz
1/4
in
3/8
in
More than 2
1/2
to 3 in
More than 6 oz to 8 oz
3/8
in
1/2
in
More than 3 in
More than 8 oz
1/2
in
5/8
in
Table VI—Sunken Discolored Areas Maximum Area Allowed
Diameter
Weight
No. 1
(aggregate area)
No. 2
(aggregate area)
Potato is:
Potato is:
Not more than:
Not more than:
Less than 2 in
Less than 4 oz
3/8
in
3/4
in
2 to 2
1/2
in
4 to 6 oz
3/4
in
1 in
More than 2
1/2
to 3 in
More than 6 to 8 oz
1 in
1
1/4
in
More than 3 to 3
1/2
in
More than 8 to 14 oz
1
1/4
in
1
1/2
in
More than 3
1/2
to 4 in
More than 14 to 20 oz
1
1/2
in
1
3/4
in
More than 4 to 4
1/2
in
More than 20 to 28 oz
1
3/4
in
2 in
More than 4
1/2
to 5 in
More than 28 to 36 oz
2 in
2
1/4
in
More than 5 in
More than 36 oz
2
1/4
in
2
1/2
in
[35 FR 18258, Dec. 1, 1970, as amended at 73 FR 15055, Mar. 21, 2008; 73 FR 70586, Nov. 21, 2008; 76 FR 31789, June 2, 2011]
§ 51.1565
Internal defects.
Internal defects
are defects which cannot be detected without cutting the potato. Some internal defects are listed in Table VII.
Table VII—Internal Defects
Defects
Damage Maximum Allowed
Serious Damage Maximum Allowed
Occurring outside of or not entirely confined to the vascular ring
Ingrown Sprouts, Internal Discoloration, Vascular Browning, Fusarium Wilt, Net Necrosis, Other Necrosis, Stem End Browning
5 percent waste
10 percent waste.
Internal Black Spot
When the spot(s) are darker than the official color chip (POT-CC-2) after removing 5 percent of the total weight of the potato
When the spot(s) are darker than the official color chip (POT-CC-2) after removing 10 percent of the total weight of the potato.
Occurring entirely within the vascular ring
Hollow Heart or Hollow Heart with Discoloration
Area affected not to exceed that of a circle
1/2
inch in diameter in a potato 2
1/2
-inches in diameter or 6 ounces in weight.
1
Area affected not to exceed that of a circle
3/4
inch in diameter in a potato 2
1/2
-inches in diameter or 6 ounces in weight.
1
Light Brown Discoloration (Brown Center)
Area affected not to exceed that of a circle
1/2
inch in diameter in a potato 2
1/2
inches in diameter or 6 ounces in weight.
1
Area affected not to exceed that of a circle
3/4
inch in diameter in a potato 2
1/2
inches in diameter or 6 ounces in weight.
1
Occurring entirely within the vascular ring
Internal Brown Spot and Similar Discoloration (Heat Necrosis)
Not more than the equivalent of 3 scattered spots
1/8
inch in diameter in a potato 2
1/2
-inches in diameter or 6 ounces in weight.
1
Not more than the equivalent of 6 scattered spots
1/8
inch in diameter in a potato 2
1/2
-inches in diameter or 6 ounces in weight.
1
1
Note: Correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes.
[35 FR 18258, Dec. 1, 1970. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981; amended at 56 FR 7553, Feb. 25, 1991; 56 FR 10302, Mar. 11, 1991; 73 FR 15058, Mar. 21, 2008 ; 73 FR 70586, Nov. 21, 2008; 76 FR 31789, June 2, 2011]

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.1566
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters (mm)
1/8
equals
3.2
1/4
equals
6.4
1/2
equals
12.7
3/4
equals
19.1
1 equals
25.4
1
1/2
equals
38.1
2 equals
50.8
2
1/2
equals
63.5
3 equals
76.2
3
1/2
equals
88.9
4 equals
101.6
4
1/2
equals
114.3
Ounces
Grams
1 equals
28.35
4 equals
113.40
5 equals
141.75
6 equals
170.10
7 equals
198.45
8 equals
226.80
9 equals
255.15
10 equals
283.50
12 equals
340.20
14 equals
396.90
16 equals
453.60
18 equals
510.30
19 equals
538.60
20 equals
567.00

# Subpart Q—United States Consumer Standards for Potatoes

# Source:
18 FR 7132, Nov. 11, 1953, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.1575
U.S. Grade A Small; U.S. Grade A Medium; U.S. Grade A Medium to Large; U.S. Grade A Large.
Potatoes of each of these grades shall be of one variety or similar varietal characteristics which are fairly well shaped, fairly clean, free from freezing injury, blackheart, late blight, and soft rot or wet breakdown, and from damage caused by sunburn, second growth, growth cracks, air cracks, hollowheart, internal discoloration, cuts, shriveling, sprouting, scab, dry rot, rhizoctonia, other diseases, wireworm, other insects, or mechanical or other means. Potatoes of these grades shall also be mature:
Provided,
That potatoes which are not mature and the outer skin loosens or “feathers” readily under the usual handling practices need not meet this requirement if they are firm and are further designated as “Early” in connection with the grade, as for example “U.S. Grade A Medium-Early.” Potatoes on the shown face shall be reasonably representative in size and quality of the contents of the containers. (See § 51.5177.)
(a)
Tolerances.
Incident to proper grading and handling, except for the tolerances for size, not more than a total of 5 percent, by weight, of the potatoes in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade, including not more than 1 percent for potatoes affected by soft rot or wet breakdown. (See § 51.1579.)
§ 51.1576
U.S. Grade B Small; U.S. Grade B Medium; U.S. Grade B Medium to Large; U.S. Grade B Large.
Potatoes of each of these grades shall meet the requirements for U.S. Grade A Small; U.S. Grade A Medium; U.S. Grade A Medium to Large; and U.S. Grade A Large, except for the increased tolerance for defects specified below. (See § 51.1577.)
(a)
Tolerances.
Incident to proper grading and handling, except for the tolerance for size, not more than a total of 20 percent, by weight, of the potaotes in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade, but not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for potatoes which are seriously damaged by any cause, including not more than 1 percent for potatoes affected by soft rot or wet breakdown. (See § 51.1579.)

# Size
§ 51.1577
Size range requirements.
In addition to the quality requirements specified for the above grades, potatoes shall also meet the requirements for minimum and maximum diameter or weight, and the tolerances as specified for the various grades in the table appearing in this section. Potatoes specified as meeting one of the grades may be of any size within its size range requirements, except that it is not permissible to specify a lot as “U.S. Grade A Medium to Large,” or “U.S. Grade B Medium to Large,” unless more than 15 percent, by weight, of the potatoes are larger than the maxiumum size required for U.S. Grade A Medium, or U.S. Grade B Medium, respectively. For example, a lot of round or intermediate-shaped potatoes to be specified as “U.S. Grade A Medium to Large” must have more than 15 percent, by weight, of potatoes from 3 to 4 inches in diameter.
Grades
Size range requirements, round or intermediate shaped varieties
Minimum diameter (
Inches
)
Maximum diameter (
Inches
)
Size range requirements, long varieties
Minimum diam. or wt.
Maximum weight (
Ounces
)
Tolerance for size
Under-size (
Percent
)
Over-size (
Percent
)
U.S. Grades A
B small
1
1/2
2
1/4
1
1/2
inches
4
3
15
U.S. Grades A
B medium
2
1/4
3
4 ounces
10
5
15
U.S. Grades A
B medium to large
2
1/4
4
4 ounces
16
5
15
U.S. Grades A
B large
3
4
10 ounces
16
5
15

# Off-Grade
§ 51.1578
Off-Grade potatoes.
Potatoes which fail to meet the requirements of any of the foregoing grades shall be Off-Grade potatoes.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1579
Application of tolerances to individual containers.
(a) Based on sample inspection, the contents of individual containers in the lot are subject to the following limitations:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade:
(1) When a tolerance is 10 percent or more, not more than one-tenth of the individual containers in any lot may contain more than one and one-half times the tolerance specified, except that at least one defective and one off-sized specimen may be permitted in a container.
(2) When a tolerance is less than 10 percent, not more than one-tenth of the individual containers in any lot may contain more than double the tolerance specified, but no package may contain more than four times the tolerance for soft rot or wet breakdown, except that at least one defective and one off-sized specimen may be permitted in a container.

# Definitions
§ 51.1580
Fairly well shaped.
Fairly well shaped
means that the appearance of the individual potato or the general appearance of the potatoes in the container is not materially injured by pointed, dumbbell-shaped or otherwise ill-formed potatoes.
§ 51.1581
Fairly clean.
Fairly clean
means that from the viewpoint of general appearance, the potatoes in the container are reasonably free from dirt or other foreign matter, and that individual potatoes are not materially caked with dirt or materially stained.
§ 51.1582
Soft rot or wet breakdown.
Soft rot or wet breakdown
means any soft, mushy, or leaky condition of the tissue such as slimy soft rot, leak, or wet breakdown following freezing injury, scald, or other injury.
§ 51.1583
Damage.
Damage
means any injury or defect which materially injures the edible or shipping quality, or the appearance of the individual potato or the general appearance of the potatoes in the container, or which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato including peel covering defective area. Loss of outer skin (epidermis) shall not be considered as damage when the potatoes are designated as “Early” unless the skinned surface is materially affected by dark discoloration. Any one of the following defects, or any combination of defects, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as damage:
(a) Second growth or growth cracks which have developed to such an extent as to materially injure the appearance of the individual potato or the general appearance of the potatoes in the container.
(b) Air cracks which are deep, or shallow air cracks which materially injure the appearance of the individual potato or the general appearance of the potatoes in the container.
(c) Shriveling, when the potato is more than moderately shriveled, spongy, or flabby.
(d) Sprouting, when the sprouts are not dried and are more than one-half inch long.
(e) Surface scab which covers an area of more than 5 percent of the surface of the potato in the aggregate.
(f) Pitted scab which affects the appearance of the potato to a greater extent than the amount of surface scab permitted or causes a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato including peel covering defective area.
(g) Rhizoctonia, when the general appearance of the potatoes in the container is materially injured or when individual potatoes are badly infected.
(h) Wireworm, grass root or similar injury, when any hole on potatoes ranging in size from 6 to 8 ounces is longer than three-fourths inch, or when the aggregate length of all holes is more than one and one-fourth inches; smaller potatoes shall have lesser amounts and larger potatoes may have greater amounts, provided, that the removal of the injury by proper trimming does not cause the appearance of such potatoes to be injured to a greater extent than that caused by the proper trimming of such injury permitted on a 6 to 8 ounce potato.
§ 51.1584
Internal discoloration.
Internal discoloration
means discoloration such as is caused by net necrosis or any other type of necrosis, stem-end browning, internal brown spot, or other similar types of discoloration not visible externally.
§ 51.1585
Mature.
Mature
means that the outer skin (epidermis) does not loosen or “feather” readily during the ordinary methods of handling.
§ 51.1586
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any injury or defect which seriously injures the edible or shipping quality, or the appearance of the individual potato or the general appearance of the potatoes in the container, or which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato including peel covering defective area. Any one of the following defects or any combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Fairly smooth cuts such as are made by the digger, or by a knife to remove injury when both ends are clipped, or when more than an estimated one-fourth of the potato is cut away, or, in the case of long varieties, when the remaining portion of the clipped potato weighs less than 6 ounces; irregular types of cuts which seriously affect the appearance of the individual potato, or which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato including peel covering defective area.
(b) Shriveling, when the potato is excessively shriveled, spongy, or flabby.
(c) Surface scab which covers an area of more than 50 percent of the surface of the potato in the aggregate.
(d) Pitted scab which affects the appearance of the potato to a greater extent than the amount of surface scab permitted or causes a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato including peel covering defective area.
(e) Wireworm, grass root or similar injury, when any hole on potatoes ranging in size from 6 to 8 ounces is longer than one and one-fourth inches, or when the aggregate length of all holes is more than two inches; smaller potatoes shall have lesser amounts and larger potatoes may have greater amounts:
Provided,
That the removal of the injury by proper trimming, does not cause the appearance of such potatoes to be injured to a greater extent than that caused by the proper trimming of such injury permitted on a 6 to 8 ounce potato.
§ 51.1587
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension at right angles to the longitudinal
axis. The long axis shall be used without regard to the position of the stem (rhizome).

# Subpart R—United States Standards for Grades of Florida Tangerines

# Source:
61 FR 20713, May 8, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.1810
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of tangerines which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-tenth of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.1828.);
(2) Firm;
(3) Highly colored;
(4) Mature; and,
(5) Well formed.
(b) Free from:
(1) Caked melanose;
(2) Decay;
(3) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(4) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Creasing;
(5) Dirt or other foreign material;
(6) Dryness or mushy condition;
(7) Disease;
(8) Green spots;
(9) Hail;
(10) Insects;
(11) Oil spots;
(12) Scab;
(13) Scale;
(14) Scars;
(15) Skin breakdown;
(16) Sprayburn;
(17) Sunburn; and,
(18) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1811
U.S. No. 1 Bright.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that fruit shall have not more than one-fifth of its surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1812
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of tangerines which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.1828.);
(2) Fairly well colored;
(3) Firm;
(4) Mature; and,
(5) Well formed.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Creasing;
(6) Dirt or other foreign material;
(7) Disease;
(8) Dryness or mushy condition;
(9) Green spots;
(10) Hail;
(11) Insects;
(12) Oil spots;
(13) Scab;
(14) Scale;
(15) Scars;
(16) Skin breakdown;
(17) Sprayburn;
(18) Sunburn; and
(19) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1813
U.S. No. 1 Golden.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that not more than 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have than more one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1814
U.S. No. 1 Bronze.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that at least 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. The predominating discoloration on each fruit shall be of rust mite type. For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1815
U.S. No. 1 Russet.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 1 except that at least 30 percent, by count, of the fruit shall have more than one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by any type of discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1816
U.S. No. 2 Bright.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 2 except that fruit shall have not more than one-fifth of its surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1817
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of tangerines which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.1828.);
(2) Fairly firm;
(3) Fairly well formed;
(4) Mature; and
(5) Reasonably well colored.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and,
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from serious damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Buckskin;
(4) Caked melanose;
(5) Creasing;
(6) Dirt or other foreign material;
(7) Disease;
(8) Dryness or mushy condition;
(9) Green spots;
(10) Hail;
(11) Insects;
(12) Oil spots;
(13) Scab;
(14) Scale;
(15) Scars;
(16) Skin breakdown;
(17) Sprayburn;
(18) Sunburn; and
(19) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1818
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
The requirements for this grade are the same as for U.S. No. 2 except that at least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than one-half of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by any type of discoloration. For tolerances see § 51.1820.
§ 51.1819
U.S. No. 3.
“U.S. No. 3” consists of tangerines which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Mature;
(2) Not flabby; and
(3) Not seriously lumpy.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and
(3) Wormy fruit.
(c) Free from very serious damage caused by:
(1) Ammoniation;
(2) Bruises;
(3) Caked melanose;
(4) Creasing;
(5) Dirt or other foreign material;
(6) Disease;
(7) Dryness or mushy condition;
(8) Hail;
(9) Insects;
(10) Scab;
(11) Scale;
(12) Scars;
(13) Skin breakdown;
(14) Sprayburn;
(15) Sunburn; and,
(16) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1820.

# Tolerances
§ 51.1820
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, based on a minimum 25 count sample, are provided as specified:
(a)
Defects.
(1) U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Golden, U.S. No. 1 Bronze, U.S. No. 1 Russet, U.S. No. 2 Bright, U.S. No. 2, and U.S. No. 2 Russet grades.
(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
1
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or,
(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
(2) U.S. No. 3.
(i)
For defects at shipping point.
1
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade: Provided,
that included in this amount not more than 1 percent shall be for decay or wormy fruit.
(ii)
For defects en route or at destination.
Not more than 12 percent of the fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the grade:
Provided,
that included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or,
(B) 3 percent for decay or wormy fruit.
(b)
Discoloration
—(1)
U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 2 Bright, and U.S. No. 2.
Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements relating to discoloration as specified in each grade. No sample may have more than 20 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(2)
U.S. No. 1 Golden.
Not more than 30 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to increase this percentage. No sample may have more than 40 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(3)
U.S. No. 1 Bronze, and U.S. No. 1 Russet.
At least 30 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage. No sample may have less than 20 percent of the fruit with required discoloration:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
(4)
U.S. No. 2 Russet.
At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage:
And provided further,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.
[61 FR 20713, May 8, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 40290, Aug. 2, 1996; 62 FR 2897, Jan. 21, 1997]

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1821
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples are subject to the following limitations, unless otherwise specified in § 51.1820. Individual samples shall have not more than one and one-half times a specified tolerance of 10 percent or more, and not more than double a specified tolerance of less than 10 percent:
Provided,
that at least one decayed or wormy fruit may be permitted in any sample:
And provided further,
that the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.
[62 FR 2898, Jan. 21, 1997]

# Size
§ 51.1822
Size.
(a) Fruits shall be fairly uniform in size and shall be packed in containers according to approved and recognized methods.
(b) “Fairly uniform in size” means that not more than 10 percent of the tangerines per sample may vary more than one-half inch in diameter.
(c) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing, not more than 10 percent of the samples in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of size.

# Definitions
§ 51.1823
Mature.
Mature
shall have the same meaning assigned the term in the Florida Citrus Code, Chapter 601, 1995 Edition, and the Official Rules Affecting the Florida Citrus Industry, in effect as of February 12, 1995. These tangerine maturity requirements are contained in the Florida Citrus Code, Chapter 601, Florida Statutes, Sections 601.21, and 601.22, 1995 Edition, and the State of Florida Department of Citrus Official Rules Affecting the Florida Citrus Industry, Part 1, Chapter 20-13 Market Classification, Maturity Standards and Processing or Packing Restrictions for Hybrids in effect as of February 12, 1995. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from, Florida Department of Citrus, Post Office Box 148, Lakeland, Florida 33802 or copies of both regulations may be inspected at USDA, AMS, F
VD, FPB, Standardization Section, Room 2065-S, 14th and Independence Ave., Washington, DC 20250 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
§ 51.1824
Firm.
Firm
means that the flesh is not soft and the fruit is not badly puffy and that the skin has not become materially separated from the flesh of the tangerine.
§ 51.1825
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the fruit has the characteristic tangerine shape and is not deformed.
§ 51.1826
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1837, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.1827
Highly colored.
Highly colored
means that the ground color of each fruit is a deep tangerine color, or characteristic color for the variety, with practically no trace of yellow color.
§ 51.1828
Discoloration.
Discoloration
means russeting of a light shade of golden brown caused by rust mite or other means. Lighter shades of discoloration caused by smooth or fairly smooth superficial scars or other means may be allowed on a greater area, or darker shades may be allowed on a lesser area, provided no discoloration caused by speck type melanose or other means may detract from the appearance of the fruit to a greater extent than the shade and amount of discoloration allowed in the grade.
§ 51.1829
Well colored.
Well colored
means that a good yellow or better ground color predominates over the green color on the entire fruit surface with no distinct green color present, and that some portion of the surface has a reddish tangerine blush, or characteristic color for the variety.
§ 51.1830
Fairly well colored.
Fairly well colored
means that the surface of the fruit may have green color which does not exceed the aggregate area of a circle 1-
1/4
inches (31.8 mm) in diameter and that the remainder of the surface has a yellow or better ground color with some portion of the surface showing reddish tangerine blush, or characteristic color for the variety.
§ 51.1831
Fairly firm.
Fairly firm
means that the flesh may be slightly soft but is not bruised or badly puffy, and that the skin has not
become seriously separated from the flesh of the tangerine.
§ 51.1832
Fairly well formed.
Fairly well formed
means that the fruit may not have the shape characteristic of the variety but that it is not badly deformed.
§ 51.1833
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1837, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.1834
Reasonably well colored.
Reasonably well colored
means that a good yellow or reddish tangerine color shall predominate over the green color on at least one-half of the fruit surface in the aggregate, and that each fruit shall show practically no lemon color.
§ 51.1835
Very serious damage.
Very serious damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1837, Table I; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which very seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit.
§ 51.1836
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end.
§ 51.1837
Classification of defects.
Table I
Factor
Damage
Serious damage
Very serious damage
Ammoniation
Not occurring as light speck type, or detracts more than discoloration permitted in the grade
Scars are cracked or dark and aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Bruises
Segment walls are collapsed, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured
Segment walls are collapsed, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured
Fruit is split open, peel is badly watersoaked, or rag is ruptured and juice sacs are ruptured causing a mushy condition affecting all segments more than
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) at bruised area or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when affecting more than one area on the fruit.
Buckskin
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Caked melanose
Aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Creasing
Materially weakens the skin, or extends over more than one-third of the surface
Seriously weakens the skin, or extends over more than one-half of the surface
Very seriously weakens the skin, or is distributed over practically the entire surface.
Dryness or mushy condition
Affecting all segments more than
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit
Affecting all segments more than
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) at stem end, or the equivalent of this amount, by volume, when occurring in other portions of the fruit.
Green spots
Aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Oil spots
Aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scab
Materially detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter
Seriously detracts from the shape or texture, or aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scale
Aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Scars, Hail, and Thorn scratches [For smooth or fairly smooth superficial scars see § 51.1828.]
Deep or rough aggregating more than a circle
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter; slightly rough with slight depth aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter; smooth or fairly smooth with slight depth aggregating more than a circle 1
1/8
inches (28.6 mm) in diameter
Deep or rough aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter; slightly rough with slight depth aggregating more than a circle 1
1/8
inches (28.6 mm) in diameter; smooth or fairly smooth with slight depth aggregating more than 10 percent of fruit surface
Deep or rough or unsightly that appearance is very seriously affected.
Skin breakdown
Aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Sprayburn
Skin is hard and aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
Skin is hard and aggregating more than a circle 1
1/4
inches (31.8 mm) in diameter
Aggregating more than 25 percent of the surface.
Sunburn
Skin is flattened, dry, darkened, or hard and the affected area exceeds 25 percent of the surface
Skin is hard and affects more than one-third of the surface
Aggregating more than 50 percent of the surface.
Note:
All references to area or aggregate area, or length are based on a tangerine 2
1/2
inches in diameter (63.5 mm), allowing proportionately greater areas on larger fruit and lesser areas on smaller fruit.

# Subpart S—United States Standards for Fresh Tomatoes

# Source:
38 FR 23932, Sept. 5, 1973, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.1855
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of tomatoes which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Similar varietal characteristics;
(2) Mature;
(3) Not overripe or soft;
(4) Clean;
(5) Well developed;
(6) Fairly well formed; and,
(7) Fairly smooth.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Freezing injury; and
(3) Sunscald.
(c) Not damaged by any other cause.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1861.
§ 51.1856
U.S. Combination.
“U.S. Combination” consists of a combination of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 tomatoes:
Provided,
That at least 60 percent, by count, meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade.
(a) For tolerances see § 51.1861.
§ 51.1857
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of tomatoes which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Similar varietal characteristics;
(2) Mature;
(3) Not overripe or soft;
(4) Clean;
(5) Well developed;
(6) Reasonably well formed; and,
(7) Not more than slightly rough.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Freezing injury; and,
(3) Sunscald.
(c) Not seriously damaged by any other cause.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.1861.
§ 51.1858
U.S. No. 3.
“U.S. No. 3” consists of tomatoes which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Similar varietal characteristics;
(2) Mature;
(3) Not overripe or soft;
(4) Clean;
(5) Well developed; and,
(6) May be mishapen.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay; and,
(2) Freezing injury.
(c) Not seriously damaged by:
(1) Sunscald.
(d) Not very seriously damaged by any other cause.
(e) For tolerances see § 51.1861.

# Size
§ 51.1859
Size.
(a) The size of tomatoes packed in any standard type shipping container shall be specified and marked according to one of the size designations set forth in Table I. Individual containers shall not be marked with more than one size designation. Consumer packages and their master container are exempt; however, if they are marked, the same requirements would apply.
(1) When containers are marked in accordance with Table I, the markings on at least 85 percent of the containers in a lot must be legible.
(2) In determining compliance with the size designations, the measurement for minimum diameter shall be the largest diameter of the tomato measured at right angles to a line from the stem end to the blossom end. The measurement for maximum diameter shall be the smallest dimension of the tomato determined by passing the tomato through a round opening in any position.
(b) In lieu of marking containers in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section or specifying size in accordance with the dimensions defined in Table I, for Cerasiforme type tomatoes commonly referred to as cherry tomatoes and Pyriforme type tomatoes commonly referred to as pear shaped tomatoes, and other similar types, size may be specified in terms of minimum diameter or minimum and maximum diameter expressed in whole inches, and not less than thirty-second inch fractions thereof, or millimeters in accordance with the facts.
(1) Tomatoes of these types are exempt from marking requirements. However, when marked to a minimum or minimum and maximum diameter, the markings on at least 85 percent of the containers in a lot must be legible.
(c) For tolerances see § 51.1861.
Table I
Size designation
Inches
Minimum diameter
1
Maximum diameter
2
Small
2
4/32
2
9/32
Medium
2
8/32
2
17/32
Large
2
16/32
2
25/32
Extra large
2
24/32
1
Will not pass through a round opening of the designated diameter when tomato is placed with the greatest transverse diameter across the opening.
2
Will pass through a round opening of the designated diameter in any position.
[56 FR 21915, May 13, 1991; 56 FR 32474, July 16, 1991]

# Color Classification
§ 51.1860
Color classification.
(a) The following terms may be used, when specified in connection with the grade statement, in describing the color as an indication of the stage of ripeness of any lot of mature tomatoes of a red fleshed variety:
(1)
Green.
“Green” means that the surface of the tomato is completely green in color. The shade of green color may vary from light to dark;
(2)
Breakers.
“Breakers” means that there is a definite break in color from green to tannish-yellow, pink or red on not more than 10 percent of the surface;
(3)
Turning.
“Turning” means that more than 10 percent but not more than 30 percent of the surface, in the aggregate, shows a definite change in color from green to tannish-yellow, pink, red, or a combination thereof;
(4)
Pink.
“Pink” means that more than 30 percent but not more than 60 percent of the surface, in the aggregate, shows pink or red color;
(5)
Light red.
“Light red” means that more than 60 percent of the surface, in the aggregate, shows pinkish-red or
red:
Provided,
That not more than 90 percent of the surface is red color; and,
(6)
Red.
“Red” means that more than 90 percent of the surface, in the aggregate, shows red color.
(b) Any lot of tomatoes which does not meet the requirements of any of the above color designations may be designated as “Mixed Color”.
(c) For tolerances see § 51.1861.
(d) Tomato color standards U.S.D.A. Visual Aid TM—L—1 consists of a chart containing twelve color photographs illustrating the color classification requirements, as set forth in this section. This visual aid may be examined in the Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, South Building, Washington, D.C. 20250; in any field office of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Inspection Service; or upon request of any authorized inspector of such Service. Duplicates of this visual aid may be purchased from The John Henry Co., Post Office Box 1410, Lansing, Michigan 48904.
[38 FR 23932, Sept. 5, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 2791, Jan. 16, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Tolerances
§ 51.1861
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, are provided as specified:
(a)
U.S. No. 1
—(1)
For defects at shipping point.
2
Ten percent for tomatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for this grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this tolerance, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 1 percent for tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay; and,
2
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(2)
For defects en route or at destination.
Fifteen percent for tomatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(i) Five percent for tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay;
(ii) Ten percent for tomatoes which are damaged by shoulder bruises or by discolored or sunken scars on any parts of the tomatoes; and,
(iii) Ten percent for tomatoes which are otherwise defective:
And provided further,
That not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for tomatoes which are very seriously damaged by any cause, exclusive of soft or decayed tomatoes.
(b)
U.S. Combination
—(1)
For defects at shipping point.
2
Ten percent for tomatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this tolerance, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including 1 percent for tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay; and,
(2)
For defects en route or at destination.
Fifteen percent for tomatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(i) Five percent for tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay;
(ii) Ten percent for tomatoes which are seriously damaged by shoulder bruises or by discolored or sunken scars on any parts of the tomatoes; and,
(iii) Ten percent for tomatoes which are otherwise defective:
And provided further,
That not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for tomatoes which are very seriously damaged by any cause, exclusive of soft or decayed tomatoes.
(c)
U.S. No. 2
—(1)
For defects at shipping point.
2
Ten percent for tomatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements of this grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this tolerance, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 1 percent for tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay; and,
(2)
For defects en route or at destination.
Fifteen percent for tomatoes in
any lot which fail to meet the requirements for this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(i) Five percent for tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay;
(ii) Ten percent for tomatoes which are seriously damaged by shoulder bruises or by discolored or sunken scars on any parts of the tomatoes; and,
(iii) Ten percent for tomatoes which are otherwise defective:
And provided further,
That not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for tomatoes which are very seriously damaged by any cause, exclusive of soft or decayed tomatoes.
(d)
U.S. No. 3
—(1)
For defects at shipping point.
2
Ten percent for tomatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements of this grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this tolerance, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for tomatoes which are very seriously damaged by insects and not more than one-tenth of the tolerance, or 1 percent, for tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay; and,
(2)
For defects en route or at destination.
Fifteen percent for tomatoes in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(i) Five percent for tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay;
(ii) Ten percent for tomatoes which are very seriously damaged by shoulder bruises or by discolored or sunken scars on any parts of the tomatoes; and,
(iii) Ten percent for tomatoes which are otherwise defective:
And provided further,
That not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for tomatoes which are very seriously damaged by insects.
(e)
For off size.
Ten percent for tomatoes in any lot which are smaller than the specified minimum diameter, or larger than the specified maximum diameter.
(f)
For off color.
Ten percent for tomatoes in any lot which fail to meet the color specified, including therein not more than 5 percent for tomatoes which are green in color, when any term other than “Green” is specified.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.1862
Application of tolerances.
The contents of individual packages in the lot, based on sample inspection, are subject to the following limitations:
(a) For packages which contain more than 5 pounds (2.27 kg), and a tolerance of 10 percent or more is provided, individual packages shall have not more than 1
1/2
times the tolerance specified, and for a tolerance of less than 10 percent individual packages shall have not more than double the tolerance specified, except that at least one defective and one off size specimen may be allowed in any package:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade; and,
(b) For packages which contain 5 pounds (2.27 kg) or less individual packages shall have not more than 4 times the tolerance specified, except that at least one tomato which is soft, or affected by decay, and one off-size specimen may be permitted in any package:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.

# Standard Weight
§ 51.1863
Standard weight.
(a) When packages are marked to a net weight of 15 pounds (6.80 kg) or more, the net weight of the contents shall not be less than the designated net weight and shall not exceed the designated weight by more than 2 pounds (0.91 kg).
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing, not more than 15 percent, by count, of the packages in any lot may fail to meet the requirements for standard weight.

# Definitions
§ 51.1864
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the tomatoes are alike as to firmness of flesh and shade of color (for example, soft-fleshed, early maturing varieties are not mixed with firm-fleshed, midseason or late varieties, or bright
red varieties mixed with varieties having a purplish tinge).
§ 51.1865
Mature.
Mature
means that the tomato has reached the stage of development which will insure a proper completion of the ripening process, and that the contents of two or more seed cavities have developed a jelly-like consistency and the seeds are well developed.
§ 51.1866
Soft.
Soft
means that the tomato yields readily to slight pressure.
§ 51.1867
Clean.
Clean
means that the tomato is practically free from dirt or other foreign material.
§ 51.1868
Well developed.
Well developed
means that the tomatoe shows normal growth. Tomatoes which are ridged and peaked at the stem end, contain dry tissue, and usually contain open spaces below the level of the stem scar, are not considered well developed.
§ 51.1869
Fairly well formed.
Fairly well formed
means that the tomato is not more than moderately kidney-shaped, lop-sided, elongated, angular, or otherwise moderately deformed.
§ 51.1870
Fairly smooth.
Fairly smooth
means that the tomato is not conspicuously ridged or rough.
§ 51.1871
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1877, table II; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the tomato.
§ 51.1872
Reasonably well formed.
Reasonably well formed
means that the tomato is not decidedly kidney-shaped, lop-sided, elongated, angular, or otherwise decidedly deformed.
§ 51.1873
Slightly rough.
Slightly rough
means that the tomato is not decidedly ridged or grooved.
§ 51.1874
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1877, table II; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the tomato.
§ 51.1875
Misshapen.
Misshapen
means that the tomato is decidedly kidney-shaped, lop-sided, elongated, angular or otherwise decidedly deformed:
Provided,
That the shape is not affected to an extent that the appearance or the edible quality of the tomato is very seriously affected.
§ 51.1876
Very serious damage.
Very serious damage
means any specific defect described in § 51.1877, Table II; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which very seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the tomato.
§ 51.1877
Classification of defects.
Table II
References to Area, Aggregate Area, Length or Aggregate Length are Based on a Tomato Having a Diameter of 2
1/2
Inches (64 mm)
1
[See footnote at end of Table II]
Factor
Damage
Serious damage
Very serious damage
Cuts and broken skins
Not shallow or not well healed, or shallow, well healed cut more than
1/2
inch (13 mm) in length, or other shallow, well healed skin breaks aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (10 mm) in diameter
Not shallow or not well healed, or shallow, well healed cut more than
1/2
inch (13 mm) in length, or other shallow, well healed skin breaks aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (13 mm) in diameter
Fresh or healed and extending through the tomato wall.
Puffiness
Open space in 1 or more locules materially detracts from appearance of tomato cut through center at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end
Open space in 1 or more locules seriously detracts from appearance of tomato cut through center at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end
Open space in 2 or more locules very seriously detracts from appearance of tomato cut through center at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end.
Catfaces
Scars are rough or deep, channels are very deep or wide, channels extend into a locule, or a fairly smooth catface aggregating more than a circle
1/2
inch (13 mm) in diameter
Scars are rough or deep, channels are very deep or wide, channels extend into a locule, or a fairly smooth catface aggregating more than a circle
3/4
inch (19 mm) in diameter
Channels extend into the locule, wall has been weakened to the extent that slight pressure will cause a tomato to leak, or a fairly smooth catface aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25 mm) in diameter.
Scars (other than catfaces)
No depth and aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (10 mm) in diameter
No depth and aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (16 mm) in diameter
No depth and aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25 mm) in diameter.
Growth cracks (radiating from or concentric to stem scar)
Not well healed, more than
1/8
inch (3 mm) in depth, individual radial cracks more than
1/2
inch (13 mm) in length, aggregate length of all radial cracks more than 1 inch (25 mm) measured from edge of stem scar. Any lot of tomatoes which are at least turning may have cracks which are not well healed provided they are not leaking
Not well healed, more than
1/8
inch (3 mm) in depth, individual radial cracks more than
3/4
inch (19 mm) in length, aggregate length of all radial cracks more than 1
3/4
inches (44 mm) measured from edge of stem scar. Any lot of tomatoes which are at least turning may have cracks which are not well healed provided they are not leaking
Not well healed, more than
1/4
inch (6 mm) in depth, individual radial cracks more than 1 inch (25 mm) in length, aggregate length of all radial cracks more than 2
7/8
inches (73 mm) measured from edge of stem scar. Any lot of tomatoes which are at least turning may have cracks which are not well healed provided they are not leaking, not more than
1/8
inch (3 mm) in depth, individual radial cracks are not more than
3/4
inch (19 mm) in length.
Hail
Deep, rough, not well healed and corked over, or fairly smooth, shallow hailmarks aggregating more than a circle
3/8
inch (10 mm) in diameter
Deep, rough, not well healed and corked over, or fairly smooth, shallow hailmarks aggregating more than a circle
5/8
inch (16 mm) in diameter
Fresh, very deep or fairly smooth, shallow hailmarks aggregating more than a circle 1 inch (25 mm) in diameter.
Insect injury
Materially detracts from the appearance of any insect is present in the fruit
Seriously detracts from the appearance of any insect is present in the fruit
Very seriously detracts from the appearance of any insect is present in the fruit.
1
Conversion to metric equivalent, made to nearest whole millimeter.
[38 FR 23932, Sept. 5, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 32920, Nov. 29, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Subpart T—United States Consumer Standards for Fresh Tomatoes

# Source:
18 FR 7144, Nov. 11, 1953, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# General
§ 51.1900
General.
These standards apply only to fieldgrown tomatoes and not to tomatoes grown in greenhouses.

# Grades
§ 51.1901
U.S. Grade A.
U.S. Grade A shall consist of tomatoes of similar varietal characteristics which are mature and are at least turning (see § 51.1904), but are not overripe or soft which are well developed, at least fairly well formed, fairly smooth, free from soft rot, freezing injury, and from damage caused by dirt, bruises, cuts, shriveling, sunscald, sunburn, puffiness, catfaces, growth cracks, scars, dry rot, other diseases, insects, hail, or mechanical or other means. Tomatoes on the shown face shall be reasonably representative in size and quality of the contents of the container. (See § 51.1903.)
(a) Incident to proper grading and handling, except for maturity, not more than 5 percent, by count, of the tomatoes in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade, including not more than 1 percent for tomatoes which are affected by soft rot.
§ 51.1902
U.S. Grade B.
U.S. Grade B shall consist of tomatoes of similar varietal characteristics which are mature and are at least turning (see § 51.1904), but are not overripe or soft and not badly misshapen; which are free from soft rot, freezing injury and from serious damage caused by dirt, bruises, cuts, shriveling, sunscald, sunburn, puffiness, catfaces, growth cracks, scars, dry rot, other diseases, insects hail, or mechanical or other means Tomatoes on the shown face shall be reasonably representative in size and quality of the contents of the container. (See § 51.1903.)
(a) Incident to proper grading and handling, except for maturity, not more than 5 percent, by count, of the tomatoes in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade, including not more than 1 percent for tomatoes which are affected by soft rot.

# Size and Maturity Classification
§ 51.1903
Size classification.
The following terms may be used for describing the size of the tomatoes in any lot:
Small
Medium
Under 3 oz
3 to 6 oz., inc.
Large
Very Large
Over 6 to 10 oz., inc
Over 10 oz.
(a) The tomatoes may also be classed in terms of combinations of the above sizes, as “Small to Medium,” “Medium to Large,” “Small to Very Large,” etc., in accordance with the facts.
(b) Incident to proper sizing, not more than 10 percent, by count, of the tomatoes in any lot may vary from the size specified.
§ 51.1904
Maturity classification.
Tomatoes which are characteristically red when ripe, but are not overripe or soft, may be classified for maturity as follows:
(a) Turning, when at least some part of the surface of the tomato, but less than one-half of the surface in the aggregate, is covered with pink color.
(b) Pink, when the tomato shows from one-half to three-fourths of the surface in the aggregate covered with pink or red color.
(c) Hard ripe, when the tomato shows three-fourths or more of the surface in the aggregate covered with pink or red color.
(d) Firm ripe, when the tomato shows three-fourths or more of the surface in the aggregate covered with red color characteristic of reasonably well ripened tomatoes.
(e) Incident to proper maturity determination, not more than a total of 10 percent, by count, of the tomatoes in any lot may fail to meet the maturity specified:
Provided,
That not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for tomatoes which are immature or are overripe or soft.

# Off-Grade
§ 51.1905
Off-Grade tomatoes.
Tomatoes which fail to meet the requirements of either of the foregoing grades shall be Off-Grade tomatoes.

# Definitions
§ 51.1906
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the tomatoes are alike as to color,
i.e., bright red varieties shall not be mixed with varieties which have a purplish tinge.
§ 51.1907
Mature.
Mature
means that the tomato has reached the stage of development which will insure a proper completion of the ripening process.
§ 51.1908
Well developed.
Well developed
means that the tomato shows normal growth. Tomatoes which are ridged and peaked at the stem end, contain dry tissue and usually open spaces, are not considered well developed.
§ 51.1909
Fairly well formed.
Fairly well formed
means that the tomato is not decidedly kidney-shaped, lopsided, elongated, angular, or otherwise deformed.
§ 51.1910
Fairly smooth.
Fairly smooth
means that the tomato is not conspicuously ridged or rough.
§ 51.1911
Damaged.
Damaged
means any defect which materially affects the appearance, or edible, shipping or keeping quality of the tomatoes. Any one of the following defects or any combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as damage:
(a) Cuts which are not shallow, not well healed, or when more than
1/2
inch in length.
(b) Puffiness if the open space in one or more locules materially affects the appearance when the tomato is cut through the center at right angles to a line running from the stem to the blossom end.
(c)
Catfaces.
These are irregular, dark, leathery scars at the blossom end of the fruit. Such scars damage the tomato when they are rough or deep, or when channels extend into the locule, or when they are fairly smooth and greater in area than a circle
3/8
inch in diameter on a 2
1/2
inch tomato. Smaller tomatoes shall have lesser areas of fairly smooth catfaces and larger tomatoes may have greater areas, provided that such catfaces do not affect the appearance of the tomatoes to a greater extent than that caused by fairly smooth catfaces which are permitted on a 2
1/2
inch tomato.
(d)
Growth cracks.
These are ruptures or cracks radiating from the stem scar, or concentric to the stem scar. They damage the tomato when not well healed, or when more than
1/2
inch in length measured from the margin of the stem scar; except that very narrow, well healed cracks concentric to the stem scar shall not be considered as damage unless they are so numerous as to damage the appearance of the fruit.
(e) Scars (except catfaces), when dark colored and shallow and aggregating more than
1/4
inch in diameter on a tomato 2
1/2
inches in diameter, or lighter colored shallow scars covering a greater area when they detract from the appearance to a greater extent than a dark-colored, shallow scar
1/4
inch in diameter. Smaller tomatoes shall have lesser areas of scars and larger tomatoes may have greater areas:
Provided,
That such scars do not affect the appearance of the tomatoes to a greater extent than that caused by scars which are permitted on a 2
1/2
-inch tomato. A scar which penetrates the wall of the tomato shall be considered as damage.
(f) Dry rot such as dry type Macrosporium or Phoma, when the spot is not adjacent to the stem scar, or when adjacent to the stem scar and more than
3/16
inch in diameter.
§ 51.1912
Badly misshapen.
Badly misshapen
means that the tomato is so badly deformed that its appearance is seriously affected.
§ 51.1913
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any defect which seriously affects the appearance, or edible, shipping, or keeping quality of the tomatoes. Any one of the following defects or any combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Soft ripe tomatoes or tomatoes affected by the soft rot.
(b) Fresh holes or cuts, or any holes or cuts through the tomato wall, or healed cuts which seriously affect the appearance of the tomato.
(c) Tomatoes showing any effects of freezing.
(d) Puffiness which causes the tomato to be distinctly light in weight.
(e) Growth cracks, when not well healed, or when so extensive, deep or discolored that the appearance of the tomato is seriously affected.
(f) Scars (except catfaces), when dark colored and shallow and aggregating more than
1/2
inch in diameter on a tomato 2
1/2
inches in diameter, or lighter colored, shallow scars covering a greater area when they detract from the appearance to a greater extent than a darkcolored, shallow scar
1/2
inch in diameter. Smaller tomatoes shall have lesser areas of scars and larger tomatoes may have greater areas:
Provided,
That such scars do not affect the appearance of the tomatoes to a greater extent than that caused by scars which are permitted on a 2
1/2
-inch tomato.
(g) Dry rot such as dry type Macrosporium or Phoma, when the spot is not adjacent to the stem scar, or when adjacent to the stem scar and more than
1/4
inch in diameter.
(h) Fruit actually infested with worms.

# Subpart U—United States Standards for Grades of Filberts in the Shell

# Source:
35 FR 11453, July 17, 1970, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grade
§ 51.1995
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of filberts in the shell which meet the following requirements:
(a) Similar type; and,
(b) Dry.
(c) Shells:
(1) Well formed; and,
(2) Clean and bright.
(3) Free from:
(i) Blanks; and,
(ii) Broken or split shells.
(4) Free from damage caused by:
(i) Stains; and,
(ii) Adhering husk; or,
(iii) Other means.
(d) Kernels:
(1) Reasonably well developed; and,
(2) Not badly misshapen.
(3) Free from:
(i) Rancidity;
(ii) Decay;
(iii) Mold; and,
(iv) Insect injury.
(4) Free from damage caused by:
(i) Shriveling; and,
(ii) Discoloration; or,
(iii) Other means.
(e) Size: The size shall be specified in connection with the grade in terms of minimum diameter, minimum and maximum diameters, or in accordance with one of the size classifications in Table I.
Table I
Size classifications
Maximum size—Will pass through a round opening of the following size
Minimum size—Will not pass through a round opening of the following size
Round type varieties:
Jumbo
No maximum
56/64
inch.
Large
56/64
inch
49/64
inch.
Medium
49/64
inch
45/64
inch.
Small
45/64
inch
No minimum.
Long type varieties:
Jumbo
No maximum
47/64
inch.
Large
48/64
inch
44/64
inch.
Medium
45/64
inch
34/64
inch.
Small
35/64
inch.
No minimum.
(f) Tolerances: In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by count, are permitted as specified:
(1)
For mixed types.
20 percent for filberts which are of a different type.
(2)
For defects.
10 percent for filberts which are below the requirements of this grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this amount or 5 percent shall consist of blanks, and not more than 5 percent shall consist of filberts with rancid, decayed, moldy or insect injured kernels, including not more than 3 percent for insect injury.
(3)
For off-size.
15 percent for filberts which fail to meet the requirements for thesize specified, but not more than two-thirds of this amount, or 10 percent shall consist of undersize filberts.

# Application of Standards
§ 51.1996
Application of standards.
(a) The grade of a lot of filberts shall be determined on the basis of a composite sample drawn from containers in various locations in the lot. However, any container or group of cantainers in which the filberts are obviously of a quality, type or size materially different from that in the majority of containers shall be considered a separate lot, and shall be sampled separately.
(b) In grading the sample, each filbert shall be examined for defects of the shell before being cracked for kernel examination. A filbert shall be classed as only one defective nut even though it may be defective externally and internally.

# Definitions
§ 51.1997
Similar type.
Similar type
means that the filberts in each container are of the same general type and appearance. For example, nuts of the round type shall not be mixed with those of the long type in the same container.
§ 51.1998
Dry.
Dry
means that the shell is free from surface moisture, and that the shells and kernels combined do not contain more than 10 percent moisture.
§ 51.1999
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the filbert shell is not materially misshapen.
§ 51.2000
Clean and bright.
Clean and bright
means that the individual filbert and the lot as a whole are practically free from adhering dirt and other foreign material, and that the shells have characteristic color.
§ 51.2001
Blank.
Blank
means a filbert containing no kernel or a kernel filling less than one-fourth the capacity of the shell.
§ 51.2002
Split shell.
Split shell
means a shell having any crack which is open and conspicuous for a distance of more than one-fourth the circumference of the shell, measured in the direction of the crack.
§ 51.2003
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the filberts. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Stains which are dark and materially affect the appearance of the individual shell.
(b) Adhering husk when covering more than 5 percent of the surface of the shell in the aggregate.
(c) Shriveling when the kernel is materially shrunken, wrinkled, leathery or tough.
(d) Discoloration when the appearance of the kernel is materially affected by black color.
§ 51.2004
Reasonably well developed.
Reasonably well developed
means that the kernel fills one-half or more of the capacity of the shell.
§ 51.2005
Badly misshapen.
Badly misshapen
means that the kernel is so malformed that the appearance is materially affected.
§ 51.2006
Rancidity.
Rancidity
means that the kernel is noticeably rancid to the taste. An oily appearance of the flesh does not necessarily indicate a rancid condition.
§ 51.2007
Moldy.
Moldy
means that there is a visible growth of mold either on the outside or the inside of the kernel.
§ 51.2008
Insect injury.
Insect injury
means that the insect, frass or web is present inside the nut or the kernel shows definite evidence of insect feeding.

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.2009
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters (mm)
62/64
24.6
59/64
23.4
56/64
22.2
49/64
19.4
48/64
19.0
47/64
18.6
45/64
17.9
44/64
17.5
42/64
16.7
35/64
13.9
34/64
13.5

# Subpart V—United States Standards for Grades of Almonds in the Shell

# Source:
62 FR 2892, Jan. 21, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.2075
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of almonds in the shell which are of similar varietal characteristics and free from loose extraneous and foreign material. The shells are clean, fairly bright, fairly uniform color, and free from damage caused by discoloration, adhering hulls, broken shells or other means. The kernels are well dried, free from decay, rancidity, and free from damage caused by insects, mold, gum, skin discoloration, shriveling, brown spot or other means.
(a) Unless otherwise specified, the almonds are of a size not less than
28/64
of an inch (11.1 mm) in thickness.
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances are provided as specified:
(1)
For external (shell) defects.
10 percent, by count, for almonds which fail to meet the requirements of this grade other than for variety and size;
(2)
For dissimilar varieties.
5 percent, by count, including therein not more than 1 percent for bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds;
(3)
For size.
5 percent, by count, for almonds which are smaller than the specified minimum thickness;
(4)
For loose extraneous and foreign material.
2 percent, by weight, including therein not more than 1 percent which can pass through a round opening
24/64
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter: Provided, that such material is practically free from insect infestation; and,
(5)
For internal (kernel) defects.
10 percent, by weight, for almonds with kernels failing to meet the requirements of this grade: Provided, that not more than one-half of this tolerance or 5 percent shall be allowed for kernels affected by decay or rancidity, damaged by insects or mold or seriously damaged by shriveling: And provided further, that no part of this tolerance shall be allowed for live insects inside the shell.
[62 FR 2892, Jan. 21, 1997, as amended at 78 FR 14908, Mar. 8, 2013]
§ 51.2076
U.S. No. 1 Mixed.
“U.S. No. 1 Mixed” consists of almonds in the shell which meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade, except that two or more varieties of sweet almonds are mixed.
§ 51.2077
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of almonds in the shell which meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade, except that an additional tolerance of 20 percent shall be allowed for almonds with shells damaged by discoloration.
§ 51.2078
U.S. No. 2 Mixed.
“U.S. No. 2 Mixed” consists of almonds in the shell which meet the requirements of U.S. No. 2 grade, except that two or more varieties of sweet almonds are mixed.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2079
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances for the foregoing grades are applied to the entire lot of almonds, based upon a composite sample drawn from containers throughout the lot.

# Determination of Grade
§ 51.2080
Determination of grade.
In grading the inspection sample, the percentage of loose hulls, pieces of shell, chaff and foreign material is determined on the basis of weight. Next, the percentages of nuts which are of
dissimilar varieties, undersize or have adhering hulls or defective shells are determined by count, using an adequate portion of the total sample. Finally, the nuts in that portion of the sample are cracked and the percentage having internal defects is determined on the basis of weight.
[78 FR 14908, Mar. 8, 2013]

# Definitions
§ 51.2081
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the almonds are similar in shape, and are reasonably uniform in degree of hardness of the shells, and that bitter almonds are not mixed with sweet almonds. For example, hard-shelled varieties, semi-soft shelled varieties, soft-shelled varieties and paper-shelled varieties are not mixed together, nor are any two of these types mixed under this definition.
§ 51.2082
Loose extraneous and foreign material.
Loose extraneous and foreign material
means loose hulls, empty broken shells, pieces of shells, external insect infestation and any substance other than almonds in the shell or almond kernels.
§ 51.2083
Clean.
Clean
means that the shell is practically free from dirt and other adhering foreign material.
§ 51.2084
Fairly bright.
Fairly bright
means that the shells show good characteristic color.
§ 51.2085
Fairly uniform color.
Fairly uniform color
means that the shells do not show excessive variation in color, whether bleached or natural.
§ 51.2086
Well dried.
Well dried
means that the kernel is firm and brittle, not pliable or leathery.
§ 51.2087
Decay.
Decay
means that part or all of the kernel has become decomposed.
§ 51.2088
Rancidity.
Rancidity
means that the kernel is noticeably rancid to taste.
§ 51.2089
Damage.
Damage
means any defect which materially detracts from the appearance of the individual kernel, or the edible or shipping quality of the almond. Any one of the following defects or combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect shall be considered as damage:
(a) Discoloration of the shell which is medium gray to black and affects more than one-eighth of the surface in the aggregate. Normal variations of a reddish or brownish color shall not be considered discoloration;
(b) Adhering hulls which cover more than 5 percent of the shell surface in the aggregate;
(c) Broken shells when a portion of the shell is missing, or the shell is broken or fractured to the extent that moderate pressure will permit the kernel to become dislodged;
(d) Insect injury when the insect, web or frass is present or there is definite evidence of insect feeding;
(e) Mold, when visible on the kernel, except when white or gray and easily rubbed off with the fingers;
(f) Gum, when a film of shiny, resinous appearing substance affects an area aggregating more than the equivalent of a circle one-quarter inch (6.4 mm) in diameter;
(g) Skin discoloration when more than one-half of the surface of the kernel is affected by very dark or black stains contrasting with the natural color of the skin;
(h) Shriveling when the kernel is excessively thin for its size, or when materially withered, shrunken, leathery, tough or only partially developed: Provided, that partially developed kernels are not considered damaged if more than three-fourths of the pellicle is filled with meat. An almond containing two kernels shall not be classed as damaged if either kernel has more than three-fourths of the pellicle filled with meat; and,
(i) Brown spot which affects an aggregate area on the kernel greater than
the area of a circle one-eighth inch (3.2 mm) in diameter.
§ 51.2090
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any defect which makes a kernel or piece of kernel unsuitable for human consumption, and includes decay, rancidity, insect injury and damage by mold. The following defect shall be considered as serious damage: Shriveling when the kernel is seriously withered, shrunken, leathery, tough or only partially developed: Provided, that partially developed kernels are not considered seriously damaged if more than one-fourth of the pellicle is filled with meat.
§ 51.2091
Thickness.
Thickness
means the greatest dimension between the two semi-flat surfaces of the shell measured at right angles to a plane extending between the seams of the shell.

# Subpart W—United States Standards for Grades of Shelled Almonds

# Source:
62 FR 2894, Jan. 21, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.2105
U.S. Fancy.
“U.S. Fancy” consists of shelled almonds of similar varietal characteristics which are whole, clean and well dried, and which are free from decay, rancidity, insect injury, foreign material, doubles, split or broken kernels, particles and dust, and free from injury caused by chipped and scratched kernels, and free from damage caused by mold, gum, shriveling, brown spot or other means. (See §§ 51.2113 and 51.2114.)
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(a)
For dissimilar varieties.
5 percent, including not more than one-fifth of this amount, or 1 percent, for bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds;
(b)
For doubles.
3 percent;
(c)
For kernels injured by chipping and/or scratching.
5 percent;
(d)
For foreign material.
One-twentieth of 1 percent (0.05 percent). No part of this percentage shall be allowed for glass and metal;
(e)
For particles and dust.
One-tenth of 1 percent (0.10 percent); and,
(f)
For other defects.
2 percent, including not more than one-half of this amount, or 1 percent, for split or broken kernels, and including not more than one-half of the former amount, or 1 percent, for seriously damaged kernels.
§ 51.2106
U.S. Extra No. 1.
“U.S. Extra No. 1” consists of shelled almonds of similar varietal characteristics which are whole, clean and well dried, and which are free from decay, rancidity, insect injury, foreign material, doubles, split or broken kernels, particles and dust, and free from damage caused by chipped and scratched kernels, mold, gum, shriveling, brown spot or other means. (See §§ 51.2113 and 51.2114.)
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(a)
For dissimilar varieties.
5 percent, including not more than one-fifth of this amount, or 1 percent, for bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds;
(b)
For doubles.
5 percent;
(c)
For kernels damaged by chipping and/or scratching.
5 percent;
(d)
For foreign material.
One-twentieth of 1 percent (0.05 percent). No part of this percentage shall be allowed for glass and metal;
(e)
For particles and dust.
One-tenth of 1 percent (0.10 percent); and,
(f)
For other defects.
4 percent, including not more than one-fourth of this amount, or 1 percent, for split or broken kernels, and including not more than three-eighths of the former amount, or 1
1/2
percent, for seriously damaged kernels.
§ 51.2107
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of shelled almonds of similar varietal characteristics which are whole, clean and well dried, and which are free from decay, rancidity, insect injury, foreign material, doubles, split or broken kernels, particles and dust, and free from damage caused by chipped and scratched kernels, mold, gum, shriveling, brown
spot or other means. (See §§ 51.2113 and 51.2114.)
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(a)
For dissimilar varieties.
5 percent, including not more than one-fifth of this amount, or 1 percent, for bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds;
(b)
For doubles.
15 percent;
(c)
For kernels damaged by chipping and/or scratching.
10 percent;
(d)
For foreign material.
One-twentieth of 1 percent (0.05 percent). No part of this percentage shall be allowed for glass and metal;
(e)
For particles and dust.
One-tenth of 1 percent (0.10 percent); and,
(f)
For other defects.
5 percent including not more than one-fifth of this amount, or 1 percent, for split or broken kernels, and including not more than three-tenths of the former amount, or 1
1/2
percent, for seriously damaged kernels.
§ 51.2108
U.S. Select Sheller Run.
“U.S. Select Sheller Run” consists of shelled almonds of similar varietal characteristics which are whole, clean and well dried, and which are free from decay, rancidity, insect injury, foreign material, doubles, split or broken kernels, particles and dust, and free from damage caused by chipped and scratched kernels, mold, gum, shriveling, brown spot or other means. (See §§ 51.2113 and 51.2114.)
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(a)
For dissimilar varieties.
5 percent, including not more than one-fifth of this amount, or 1 percent, for bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds;
(b)
For doubles.
15 percent;
(c)
For kernels damaged by chipping and/or scratching.
20 percent;
(d)
For foreign material.
One-tenth of 1 percent (0.10 percent). No part of this percentage shall be allowed for glass and metal;
(e)
For particles and dust.
One-tenth of 1 percent (0.10 percent);
(f)
For split and broken kernels.
5 percent: Provided, that not more than two-fifths of this amount, or 2 percent, shall be allowed for pieces which will pass through a round opening
20/64
inch (7.9 mm) in diameter; and,
(g)
For other defects.
3 percent, including not more than two-thirds of this amount, or 2 percent, for serious damage.
§ 51.2109
U.S. Standard Sheller Run.
“U.S. Standard Sheller Run” consists of shelled almonds of similar varietal characteristics which are whole, clean and well dried, and which are free from decay, rancidity, insect injury, foreign material, doubles, split or broken kernels, particles and dust, and free from damage caused by chipped and scratched kernels, mold, gum, shriveling, brown spot or other means. (See §§ 51.2113 and 51.2114.)
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(a)
For dissimilar varieties.
5 percent, including not more than one-fifth of this amount, or 1 percent, for bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds;
(b)
For doubles.
25 percent;
(c)
For kernels damaged by chipping and/or scratching or split and broken.
35 percent; Provided, that not more than three-sevenths of this amount, or 15 percent, shall be allowed for split and broken: And Provided Further, that not more than one-third of this latter amount, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for pieces which will pass through a round opening
20/64
inch (7.9 mm) in diameter;
(d)
For foreign material.
Two-tenths of 1 percent (0.20 percent). No part of this percentage shall be allowed for glass and metal;
(e)
For particles and dust.
One-tenth of 1 percent (0.10 percent); and,
(f)
For other defects.
3 percent, including not more than two-thirds of this amount, or 2 percent, for serious damage.
§ 51.2110
U.S. No. 1 Whole and Broken.
“U.S. No. 1 Whole and Broken” consists of shelled almonds of similar varietal characteristics which are clean and well dried, and which are free from decay, rancidity, insect injury, foreign material, doubles, particles and dust, and free from damage caused by mold,
gum, shriveling, brown spot or other means.
(a) In this grade not less than 30 percent, by weight, of the kernels shall be whole. Doubles shall not be considered as whole kernels in determining the percentage of whole kernels.
(b) Unless otherwise specified, the minimum diameter shall be not less than
20/64
of an inch (7.9 mm). (See §§ 51.2113 and 51.2114.)
(c) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1)
For dissimilar varieties.
5 percent, including not more than one-fifth of this amount, or 1 percent, for bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds;
(2)
For doubles.
35 percent;
(3)
For foreign material.
Two-tenths of 1 percent (0.20 percent). No part of this percentage shall be allowed for glass and metal;
(4)
For particles and dust.
One-tenth of 1 percent (0.10 percent);
(5)
For undersize.
5 percent; and,
(6)
For other defects.
5 percent, including not more than three-fifths of this amount, or 3 percent, for serious damage.
§ 51.2111
U.S. No. 1 Pieces.
“U.S. No. 1 Pieces” consists of shelled almonds which are not bitter, which are clean and well dried, and which are free from decay, rancidity, insect injury, foreign material, particles and dust, and free from damage caused by mold, gum, shriveling, brown spot or other means.
(a) Unless otherwise specified, the minimum diameter shall be not less than
8/64
of an inch (3.2 mm). (See §§ 51.2113 and 51.2114.)
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1)
For bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds.
1 percent;
(2)
For foreign material.
Two-tenths of 1 percent (0.20 percent). No part of this percentage shall be allowed for glass and metal;
(3)
For particles and dust.
1 percent; and
(4)
For other defects.
5 percent, including not more than three-fifths of this amount, or 3 percent, for serious damage.

# Mixed Varieties
§ 51.2112
Mixed varieties.
Any lot of shelled almonds designated as “one type” or undesignated as to type, which consists of a mixture of two or more dissimilar varieties which meet the other requirements of any of the grades of U.S. No. 1, U.S. Select Sheller Run, U.S. Standard Sheller Run, U.S. No. 1 Whole and Broken may be designated as: “U.S. No. 1 Mixed;” “U.S. Select Sheller Run Mixed;” “U.S. Standard Sheller Run Mixed;” “U.S. No. 1 Whole and Broken Mixed;” respectively; but no lot of any of these grades may include more than 1 percent of bitter almonds mixed with sweet almonds.

# Size
§ 51.2113
Size requirements.
The size may be specified in terms of range in count of whole almond kernels per ounce or in terms of minimum, or minimum and maximum diameter. When a range in count is specified, the whole kernels shall be fairly uniform in size, and the average count per ounce shall be within the range specified. Doubles and broken kernels shall not be used in determining counts. Count ranges per ounce commonly used are shown below, but other ranges may be specified: Provided, that the kernels are fairly uniform in size.
16 to 18, inclusive.
18 to 20, inclusive.
20 to 22, inclusive.
22 to 24, inclusive.
23 to 25, inclusive.
24 to 26, inclusive.
26 to 28, inclusive.
27 to 30, inclusive.
30 to 34, inclusive.
34 to 40, inclusive.
40 to 50, inclusive.
50 and smaller.
§ 51.2114
Tolerances for size.
(a) When a range is specified as, for example, “
18/20
,” no tolerance for counts above or below the range shall be allowed.
(b) When the minimum, or minimum and maximum diameter are specified, a
total tolerance of not more than 10 percent, by weight, may fail to meet the specified size requirements: Provided, that not more than one-half of this amount, or 5 percent, may be below the minimum size specified.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2115
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances for the grades are to be applied to the entire lot, and a composite sample shall be taken for determining the grade. However, any container or group of containers in which the almonds are found to be materially inferior to those in the majority of the containers shall be considered a separate lot.

# Definitions
§ 51.2116
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the kernels are similar in shape and appearance. For example, long types shall not be mixed with short types, or broad types mixed with narrow types, and bitter almonds shall not be mixed with sweet almonds. Color of the kernels shall not be considered, since there is often a marked difference in skin color of kernels of the same variety.
(a) When a lot is specified as “one type,” all kernels shall be the same in shape and appearance; and,
(b) When a lot is specified and carton marked as “California,” kernels present may include any one or a combination of blanchable varieties within the “California” Marketing Classification. In addition, Nonpareil or similar types may be included provided that it does not exceed twenty-five percent (25%), by weight, of the lot.
§ 51.2117
Whole.
Whole
means that there is less than one-eighth of the kernel chipped off or missing, and that the general contour of the kernel is not materially affected by the missing part.
§ 51.2118
Clean.
Clean
means that the kernel is practically free from dirt and other foreign substance.
§ 51.2119
Well dried.
Well dried
means that the kernel is firm and brittle, and not pliable or leathery.
§ 51.2120
Decay.
Decay
means that part or all of the kernel has become decomposed.
§ 51.2121
Rancidity.
Rancidity
means that the kernel is noticeably rancid to the taste.
§ 51.2122
Insect injury.
Insect injury
means that the insect, web, or frass is present or there is definite evidence of insect feeding.
§ 51.2123
Foreign material.
Foreign material
means pieces of shell, hulls or other foreign matter which will not pass through a round opening
8/64
of an inch (3.2 mm) in diameter.
§ 51.2124
Doubles.
Doubles
means kernels that developed in shells containing two kernels. One side of a double kernel is flat or concave.
§ 51.2125
Split or broken kernels.
Split or broken kernels
means seven-eighths or less of complete whole kernels but which will not pass through a round opening
8/64
of an inch (3.2 mm) in diameter.
§ 51.2126
Particles and dust.
Particles and dust
means fragments of almond kernels or other material which will pass through a round opening
8/64
of an inch (3.2 mm) in diameter.
§ 51.2127
Injury.
Injury
means any defect which more than slightly detracts from the appearance of the individual almond. The following shall be considered as injury:
(a) Chipped and scratched kernels when the affected area on an individual kernel aggregates more than the equivalent of a circle one-eighth inch (3.2 mm) in diameter.
§ 51.2128
Damage.
Damage
means any defect which materially detracts from the appearance of the individual kernel, or the edible
or shipping quality of the almonds. Any one of the following defects or combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect shall be considered as damage:
(a) Chipped and scratched kernels, when the affected area on an individual kernel aggregates more than the equivalent of a circle one-quarter inch (6.4 mm) in diameter;
(b) Mold, when visible on the kernel, except when white or gray and easily rubbed off with the fingers;
(c) Gum, when a film of shiny, resinous appearing substance affects an area aggregating more than the equivalent of a circle one-quarter inch (6.4 mm) in diameter;
(d) Shriveling, when the kernel is excessively thin for its size, or when materially withered, shrunken, leathery, tough or only partially developed: Provided, that partially developed kernels are not considered damaged if more than three-fourths of the pellicle is filled with meat;
(e) Brown spot on the kernel, either single or multiple, when the affected area aggregates more than the equivalent of a circle one-eighth inch (3.2 mm) in diameter; and,
(f) Skin discoloration when more than one-half of the surface of the kernel is affected by very dark or black stains contrasting with the natural color of the skin.
§ 51.2129
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any defect which makes a kernel or piece of kernel unsuitable for human consumption, and includes decay, rancidity, insect injury and damage by mold.
§ 51.2130
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension of the kernel, or piece of kernel at right angles to the longitudinal axis. Diameter shall be determined by passing the kernel or piece of kernel through a round opening.
§ 51.2131
Fairly uniform in size.
Fairly uniform in size
means that, in a representative sample, the weight of 10 percent, by count, of the largest whole kernels shall not exceed 1.70 times the weight of 10 percent, by count, of the smallest whole kernels.

# Subpart X—United States Standards for Shelled English Walnuts (Juglans Regia)

# Source:
23 FR 10354, Dec. 25, 1958, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# General
§ 51.2275
Application.
The standards contained in this subpart apply only to walnuts commonly known as English or Persian walnuts (Juglans regia). They do not apply to walnuts commonly known as black walnuts (Juglans nigra).
§ 51.2276
[Reserved]

# Grades
§ 51.2277
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of portions of walnut kernels which are well dried, clean, free from shell, foreign material, insect injury, decay, rancidity, and free from damage caused by shriveling, mold, discoloration of the meat or other means. (See § 51.2280.)
(a) Color shall be specified in connection with this grade in terms of “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” from the USDA Walnut Color Chart or in terms of “red” color. The color classifications in the USDA Walnut Color Chart shall not apply to “red” color. Furthermore, “red” color shall not be mixed with “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” colors. (See §§ 51.2281 and 51.2282.)
(b) Size shall be specified in connection with this grade in terms of one of the size classifications. (See §§ 51.2284 and 51.2285.)
[23 FR 10354, Dec. 25, 1958. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 82 FR 39656, Aug. 22, 2017]
§ 51.2278
U.S. Commercial.
“U.S. Commercial” consists of portions of walnut kernels which meet the
requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade, except for increased tolerances. (See § 51.2280.)
(a) Color of walnuts based on the USDA Walnut Color Chart shall be not darker than the “amber” classification. There are no color requirements for “red” color. Color may be specified in connection with the grade in terms of one of the color classifications in the USDA Walnut Color Chart or “red” color. “Red” color shall not be mixed with “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” colors. (See §§ 51.2281 and 51.2282.)
(b) Size shall be specified in connection with this grade in terms of one of the size classifications. (See §§ 51.2284 and 51.2285.)
[23 FR 10354, Dec. 25, 1958. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 82 FR 39657, Aug. 22, 2017]

# Unclassified
§ 51.2279
[Reserved]

# Tolerances for Grade Defects
§ 51.2280
Tolerances for grade defects.
(a) All percentages shall be claculated on the basis of weight.
(b) In order to allow for variations, other than for color and size, incident to proper grading and handling, tolerances shall be permitted for the respective grades as indicated in Table I:
Table I
[Percent]
Grade
Tolerances for grade defects
Total defects
Serious damage
Very serious damage
Shell and foreign material
U. S. No. 1
5
2 (included in 5 percent total defects)
1 (included in 2 percent serious damage)
0.05 (included in 1 percent very serious damage).
U.S. Commercial
8
4 (included in 8 percent total defects)
2 (included in 4 percent serious damage)
0.05 (included in 2 percent very serious damage).

# Color Requirements
§ 51.2281
Color classifications.
The following classifications are provided to describe the color of any lot:
(a) “Extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” and “amber:” The portions of kernels in the lot shall be not darker than the darkest color permitted in the specified classification as shown on the USDA Walnut Color Chart.
(b) “Red:” There are no color requirements.
[82 FR 39657, Aug. 22, 2017]
§ 51.2282
Tolerances for color.
(a) All percentages shall be calculated on the basis of weight.
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, tolerances shall be permitted for the respective color classifications as indicated in Table II:
Table II
Color classification
Tolerances for color
Darker than extra light
1
Darker than light
1
Darker than light amber
1
Darker than amber
1
Extra light
15 percent
2 percent (included in 15 percent darker than extra light)
Light
15 percent
2 percent (included in 15 percent darker than light)
Light amber
15 percent
2 percent (included in 15 percent darker than light amber).
Amber
10 percent.
Red
1
See illustration of this term on USDA Walnut Color Chart.
[23 FR 10354, Dec. 25, 1958. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 82 FR 39657, Aug. 22, 2017]
§ 51.2283
Off color.
The term “off color” is not a color classification, but shall be applied to any lot which fails to meet the requirements of the “amber” classification when applying the color classifications in the USDA Walnut Color Chart. Off color shall not be used for “red” color.
[82 FR 39657, Aug. 22, 2017]

# Size Requirements
§ 51.2284
Size classification.
The following classifications are provided to describe the size of any lot: “Halves”, “Pieces and Halves”, “Pieces” or “Small Pieces”. The size of portions of kernels in the lot shall conform to the requirements of the specified classification as defined below:
(a)
Halves.
Lot consists of 85 percent or more, by weight, half kernels, and the remainder three-fourths half kernels. (See § 51.2285.)
(b)
Pieces and halves.
Lot consists of 20 percent or more, by weight, half kernels, and the remainder portions of kernels that cannot pass through a sieve with
24/64
inch round openings. When a lot exceeds this minimum requirement, the actual percentage of halves may be specified. (See § 51.2285.)
(c)
Pieces.
Lot consists of portions of kernels that cannot pass through a sieve with
24/64
inch round openings. (See § 51.2285.)
(d)
Small pieces.
Lot consists of portions of kernels that pass through a sieve with
24/64
inch round openings, but that cannot pass through a sieve with
8/64
inch round openings. When desired, the actual size ranges within such size ranges may be specified. (See § 51.2285.)
§ 51.2285
Tolerances for size.
(a) All percentages shall be calculated on the basis of weight.
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing and handling, tolerances shall be permitted for the respective size classifications as indicated in Table III:
Table III
[Percent]
Size classification
Tolerances for size
Smaller than three-fourths halves
Will not pass through
24/64
inch round hole
Pass through
24/64
inch round hole
Pass through
16/64
inch round hole
Pass through
8/64
inch round hole
Halves
5
1 (included in 5 percent)
Pieces and halves
1
18
3 (included in 18 percent)
1 (included in 2 percent).
Pieces
25
5 (included in 25 percent)
1 (included in 5 percent).
Small pieces
2
10
2.
1
No part of any tolerance shall be used to reduce the percentage of halves required or specified in a lot of “pieces and halves”.
2
The tolerances of 10 percent and 2 percent for “small pieces” classification shall apply, respectively, to any smaller maximum or any larger minimum sizes specified.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2286
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances provided in these standards are on a lot basis, and they shall be applied to a composite sample representative of the lot. However, any container or group of containers in which the walnuts are obviously of a quality materially different from that in the majority of containers shall be considered a separate lot, and shall be sampled separately.

# Definitions
§ 51.2287
Well dried.
Well dried
means that the portion of kernel is firm and crisp, not pliable or leathery.
§ 51.2288
Clean.
Clean
means that the appearance of the individual portion of kernel, or of the lot as a whole, is not materially affected by adhering dust, dirt or other foreign material.
§ 51.2289
Shell.
Shell
means the outer shell and/or the woody partition from between the halves of the kernel, and any fragments of either.
§ 51.2290
Insect injury.
Insect injury
means that the insect, web, frass or other evidence of insects is present on the portion of kernel.
§ 51.2291
Rancidity.
Rancidity
means that the portion of kernel is noticeably rancid to the taste. Rancidity should not be confused with a slightly astringent flavor of the pellicle (skin) or with staleness (the state at which the flavor is flat but not objectionable).
§ 51.2292
Damage.
Damage
means any defect, other than color, which materially affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the individual portion of kernel, or of the lot as a whole. Any one of the following defects or any combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect shall be considered as damage:
(a) Shriveling when more than one-eighth of the portion of kernel is severely shriveled, or a greater area is affected by lesser degrees of shriveling producing an equally objectionable appearance, except that kernels which are thin in corss-section but which are otherwise normally developed shall not be considered as damaged;
(b) Mold when plainly visible;
(c) Discoloration of the meat when more than one-eighth the volume of the portion of kernel is severely discolored, or a greater volume is affected by lesser degrees of discoloration producing an equally objectionable appearance;
(d) Not well dried; and,
(e) Not clean.
§ 51.2293
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any defect, other than color, which seriously affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the individual portion of kernel or of the lot as a whole. Any one of the following defects or any combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Shriveling when more than one-fourth of the kernel is severely shriveled, or a greater area is affected by lesser degrees of shriveling producing an equally objectionable appearance;
(b) Mold when plainly visible on more than one-eighth of the surface of the kernel in the aggregate; and,
(c) Discoloration of the meat when more than one-fourth the volume of the portion of kernel is severely discolored, or a greater volume is affected by lesser degrees of discoloration producing an equally objectionable appearance.
§ 51.2294
Very serious damage.
Very serious damage
means any defect, other than color, which very seriously affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the individual portion of kernel or of the lot as a whole. Any one of the following defects or any combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect shall be considered as very serious damage:
(a) Shriveling when more than 50 percent of the portion of kernel is severely shriveled;
(b) Mold when plainly visible on more than one-fourth of the surface of the portion of kernel in the aggregate;
(c) Discoloration of the meat when more than one-half the volume of the portion of kernel is severely discolored;
(d) Insect injury;
(e) Rancidity or decay; and,
(f) Shell, or any foreign material.
§ 51.2295
Half kernel.
Half kernel
means the separated half of a kernel with not more than one-eighth broken off.
§ 51.2296
Three-fourths half kernel.
Three-fourths half kernel
means a portion of a half of a kernel which has more than one-eighth but not more than one-fourth broken off.

# Subpart Y—United States Standards for Grades of Kiwifruit

# Source:
47 FR 34513, Aug. 10, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.2335
Grades.
(a) “U.S. Fancy” consists of kiwifruit which meet the following requirements:
(1) Basic Requirements:
(i) Similar varietal characteristics;
(ii) Mature;
(iii) Not soft, overripe, or shriveled;
(iv) Carefully packed;
(v) Clean; and,
(vi) Well formed.
(2) Free From:
(i) Worm holes;
(ii) Broken skins which are not healed;
(iii) Sunscald;
(iv) Freezing injury;
(v) Internal breakdown; and,
(vi) Decay.
(3) Free From Injury By:
(i) Bruises;
(ii) Leaf or limbrubs;
(iii) Discoloration;
(iv) Hail;
(v) Growth cracks;
(vi) Scab;
(vii) Scars;
(viii) Heat, sprayburn, or sunburn;
(ix) Scale;
(x) Insects;
(xi) Other diseases; and,
(xii) Mechanical or other means.
(4) Tolerances. (See § 51.2336)
(b) “U.S. No. 1” consists of kiwifruit which meet the following requirements:
(1) Basic Requirements:
(i) Similar varietal characteristics;
(ii) Mature;
(iii) Not soft, overripe, or shriveled;
(iv) Carefully packed;
(v) Clean; and,
(vi) Fairly well formed.
(2) Free From:
(i) Worm holes;
(ii) Broken skins which are not healed;
(iii) Sunscald;
(iv) Freezing injury;
(v) Internal breakdown; and,
(vi) Decay.
(3) Free From Damage By:
(i) Bruises;
(ii) Leaf or limbrubs;
(iii) Discoloration;
(iv) Hail;
(v) Growth cracks;
(vi) Scab;
(vii) Scars;
(viii) Heat, sprayburn, or sunburn;
(ix) Scale;
(x) Insects;
(xi) Other diseases; and,
(xii) Mechanical or other means.
(4) Tolerances. (See § 51.2336):
(c) “U.S. No. 2” consists of kiwifruit which meet the following requirements:
(1) Basic Requirements:
(i) Similar varietal characteristics;
(ii) Mature;
(iii) Not soft, overripe, or shriveled;
(iv) Carefully packed;
(v) Fairly clean; and,
(vi) Not badly misshapen.
(2) Free From:
(i) Worm holes;
(ii) Broken skins which are not healed;
(iii) Sunscald;
(iv) Freezing injury;
(v) Internal breakdown; and,
(vi) Decay.
(3) Free From Serious Damage By:
(i) Bruises;
(ii) Leaf or limbrubs;
(iii) Discoloration;
(iv) Hail;
(v) Growth cracks;
(vi) Scab;
(vii) Scars;
(viii) Heat, sprayburn, or sunburn;
(ix) Scale;
(x) Insects;
(xi) Other diseases; and,
(xii) Mechanical or other means.
(4) Tolerances. (See § 51.2336)
[47 FR 34513, Aug. 10, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 36682, Oct. 15, 1986]
§ 51.2336
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances by count, shall be permitted in any lot:
(a) U.S. Fancy and U.S. No. 1.
(1) For defects at shipping point.
2
8 percent for fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 4 percent shall be allowed for defects causing serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for fruit affected by internal breakdown or decay.
2
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(2) For defects en route or at destination. 12 percent for fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects:
(i) 8 percent for permanent defects;
(ii) 6 percent for defects causing serious damage, including therein not more than 4 percent for serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 2 percent for fruit affected by internal breakdown or decay.
(b) U.S. No. 2.
(1) For defects at shipping point.
2
8 percent for fruit which fail to meet the requirements of this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amoung not more than 4 percent shall be allowed for sunscald, insects, internal breakdown or decay, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for fruit affected by internal breakdown or decay.
(2) For defects en route or at destination. 12 percent for fruit which fail to meet the requirements of this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects:
(i) 8 percent for permanent defects including therein not more than 4 percent for sunscald, or insects; and,
(ii) 2 percent for internal breakdown or decay.
§ 51.2337
Application of tolerances.
The contents of individual containers in a lot, based on sample inspection, are subject to the following limitations:
(a) Individual samples shall not have more than double a specified tolerance except that at least two defective specimens may be permitted in any container:
Provided,
That not more than one fruit which is frozen or affected by decay be permitted in any container 3 pounds or less; and,
Provided further,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.
[47 FR 34513, Aug. 10, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 40186, Oct. 2, 1985; 51 FR 4293, Feb. 4, 1986]
§ 51.2338
Standard pack.
(a) Fruit shall be fairly uniform in size and shall be packed in boxes, flats, lugs, or cartons and arranged according to approved and recognized methods. Containers shall be well filled; contents tightly packed but not be excessively or unnecessarily bruised by overfilling or oversizing. Fruit in the shown face of the container shall be reasonably representative in size and quality of the contents.
(b) When packed in closed containers the size shall be indicated by marking the container with the numerical count.
(c) Boxes, flats, lugs, or cartons:
(1) Fruit packed in containers with cell compartments, cardboard fillers or molded trays shall be of proper size for the cells, fillers, or molds in which they are packed, and conform to the marked count.
(2) In order to allow for variations incident to proper packing in other types
of containers, for example, lugs, cartons, or boxes, the number of fruit shall not vary more than two from the marked count.
(d) “Fairly uniform in size” means that fruit in containers marked numerically to denote size may not vary in diameter more than
1/2
inch (12.7mm) in sizes 30 or larger;
3/8
inch (9.5mm) is sizes 31 through 38; and
1/4
inch (6.4mm) in sizes 39 or smaller. Not more than 5 percent, by count, of the fruit in any container may exceed the diameter range specified.
(e) “Diameter” means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a line from stem to blossom end.
(f) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing and packing, not more than 10 percent, by count, of containers in any lot may fail to meet these requirements.
[47 FR 34513 Aug. 10, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 40186, Oct. 2, 1985; 51 FR 4293, Feb. 4, 1986]
§ 51.2339
Definitions.
Similar varietal characteristics
means the fruit in any lot and container are similar in shape, color of skin and flesh.
Mature
means the fruit has reached the stage of development which will ensure the proper completion of the ripening process. The minimum average soluble solids, unless otherwise specified, shall be not less than 6.5 percent.
Clean
means the fruit is practically free from dirt, dust, or other foreign material.
Fairly clean
means the fruit is reasonably free from dirt, dust, or other foreign material.
Well formed
means the fruit has the shape characteristic of the variety and slight bumps or other roughness are permitted providing they do not detract from the appearance.
Fairly well formed
means the fruit has the shape characteristic of the variety but slight bumps or other roughness are permitted providing they do not materially detract from appearance.
Badly misshapen
means the fruit is so decidely deformed that its appearance is seriously affected.
Carefully packed
means the fruit shows no evidence of rough handling.
Injury
means any defect described in § 51.2340, or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which more than slightly detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality.
Damage
means any defect described in § 51.2340 or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality.
Serious damage
means any defect described in § 51.2340 or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality.
Permanent defects
means those which are not subject to change during shipment or storage, for example, shape, scars, or growth cracks.
Condition defects
means those defects which are subject to change during shipment or storage, for example, decay, soft, shriveling, discoloration, or bruises.
[47 FR 34513, Aug. 10, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 40186, Oct. 2, 1985; 51 FR 36682, Oct. 15, 1986; 51 FR 4293, Feb. 4, 1986]
§ 51.2340
Classification of defects.
Defects
Injury
Damage
Serious damage
Bruises
When any slight indentation of the fruit or discoloration of the flesh extends more than
1/16
inch (1.6 mm) in depth
When surface of fruit is indented and discoloration of the flesh extends deeper than
1/8
inch (3.2 mm), or causing slight discoloration exceeding the area of a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter, or lesser bruises aggregating an area of a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter which materially detract from the appearance, edible or shipping quality
When surface of the fruit is indented and discoloration of the flesh extends deeper than
1/4
inch (6.4 mm), or causing discoloration exceeding the area of a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter, or lesser bruises which seriously detract from the appearance, edible or shipping quality.
Leaf or Limbrubs
When not smooth, or not light colored, or aggregating more than the area of a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter
When not smooth, or not light colored, or aggregating more than the area of a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter
When smooth and light colored and aggregating more than the area of a circle 1-
1/2
inches (38.1 mm) in diameter, or dark or slightly rough and barklike scars aggregating more than the area of a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter.
Discoloration
When color and pattern causes a distinct noticeable appearance (except for water staining) affecting more than 5% of surface
When color and pattern causes an unattractive appearance (except for water staining) affecting more than 10% of surface
When color and pattern causes a distinct unattractive appearance (except for water staining) affecting more than 25% of surface.
Hail Injury
When unhealed or deep, or aggregating more than the area of a circle
1/16
inch (1.6 mm) in diameter
When unhealed or deep, or aggregating more than the area of a circle
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter
When unhealed or deep, or aggregating more than the area of a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter.
Growth Cracks
When not healed, or more than one in number, or more than
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) in length or depth
When not healed, or more than one in number, or more than
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) in depth, or more than
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in length if within the stem cavity, or more than
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in length if outside the stem cavity
When not healed and more than
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) in length or depth, or healed and more than
3/16
inch (4.8 mm) in depth, or healed and aggregating more than
5/8
inch (15.9 mm) in length if within the stem cavity, or healed and aggregating more than
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in length if outside the stem cavity.
Scab
When cracked, or the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) in diameter
When cracked, or the aggregate area exceeds that of a cricle
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter
When the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter.
Scars
When not smooth, or surface of the fruit is depressed more than
1/32
inch (.8 mm), or not light in color, or when exceeding any of the following aggregate areas, or a combination of two or more types of scars, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one type: (1) Dark or rough scars when the area exceeds that of a circle
1/8
inch (3.2 mm) in diameter; (2) Fairly light colored, fairly smooth scars when the area exceeds that of a circle
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter; (3) Light colored, smooth scars when the area exceeds that of a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter
When not smooth, or surface of the fruit is depressed more than
1/16
inch (1.6 mm), or when exceeding any of the following aggregate areas, or a combination of two or more types of scars, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one type: (1) Dark or rough scars when the area exceeds that of a circle
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter; (2) Fairly light colored, fairly smooth scars when the area exceeds that of a circle
1/2
inch (12.7 mm) in diameter; (3) Light colored, smooth scars when the area exceeds that of a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter
When the surface of the fruit is depressed more than
3/16
inch (4.8 mm), or when exceeding any of the following aggregate areas, or a combination of two or more types of scars, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one type: (1) Dark or rough scars when the area exceeds that of a circle
3/4
inch (19.1 mm) in diameter; (2) Not dark or rough when the area exceeds one-fourth of the fruit surface.
Heat, Sprayburn and Sunburn
When the normal color of the skin or flesh is more than slightly changed, or any indentation is present
When the skin is blistered, cracked or decidedly flattened, or the normal color of the skin or flesh has materially changed, or more than one indentation, or indentation exceeds
3/16
inch (4.8 mm) in diameter
When the skin is blistered, cracked or decidedly flattened, or causing any dark discoloration of the flesh, or more than two indentations are present, or the aggregate area of indentations exceeds that of a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter, or when causing a noticeable brownish or darker discoloration over more than one-fourth of surface.
Scale or Scale Marks
When more than one large scale or scale mark or more than three scales or scale marks of any size are present
When the aggregate area exceds that of a circle
1/4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter
When the aggregate area exceeds that of a circle
3/8
inch (9.5 mm) in diameter.
Insects
When feeding injury is evident on fruit or any insect is present in fruit
When feeding injury materially detracts from appearance or any insect is present in fruit
When feeding injury seriously detracts from appearance or any insect is present in fruit.
Classification of defects guidelines are based on fruit 2 inches or smaller in diameter. Accordingly,
larger fruit
are permitted to have defects relative to their size.
§ 51.2341
Sample size for grade determination.
For fruit place-packed in tray pack containers, the sample shall consist of the contents of the individual container. For fruit jumble-packed in volume filled containers, the sample shall consist of at least 50 fruit. When individual containers contain at least 50 fruit, each individual sample is drawn from one container. When individual containers contain less than 50 fruit, a sufficient number of adjoining containers are opened to form a 50 fruit sample.
[50 FR 40186, Oct. 2, 1985; 50 FR 40961, Oct. 8, 1985; 51 FR 4293, Feb. 4, 1986]

# Subpart Z—United States Standards for Grades of Pistachio Nuts in the Shell

# Source:
51 FR 27814, Aug. 4, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.2540
General.
(a) Compliance with the provisions of these standards shall not excuse failure to comply with provisions of applicable Federal or State laws.
(b) These standards are applicable to pistachio nuts in the shell which may be in a natural, dyed, raw, roasted, or salted state; or in any combination thereof. However, nuts of obviously dissimilar forms shall not be commingled.
§ 51.2541
U.S. Fancy, U.S. Extra No. 1, U.S. No. 1 And U.S. Select Grades.
“U.S. Fancy,” “U.S. Extra No. 1,” “U.S. No. 1,” and “U.S. Select” consists of pistachio nuts in the shell which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Free from:
(i) Foreign material;
(ii) Loose kernels;
(iii) Shell pieces;
(iv) Particles and dust; and,
(v) Blanks.
(b) Shells:
(1) Free from:
(i) Non-split shells; and,
(ii) Shells not split on suture.
(2) Free from damage by:
(i) Adhering hull material;
(ii) Light stained;
(iii) Dark stained; and,
(iv) Other External (shell) defects.
(c) Kernels:
(1) Well dried, or, very well dried when specified in connection with the grade.
(2) Free from damage by:
(i) Immature kernels;
(ii) Kernel spotting; and,
(iii) Other Internal (kernel) defects.
(3) Free from serious damage by:
(i) Minor insect or vertebrate injury;
(ii) Insect damage;
(iii) Mold;
(iv) Rancidity;
(v) Decay; and,
(vi) Other Internal (kernel) defects.
(d) The nuts are of a size not less than
30/64
inch in diameter as measured by a round hole screen.
(e) For tolerances, see § 51.2544.
[68 FR 50682, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2542
U.S. Artificially Opened.
“U.S. Artificially Opened” consists of artificially opened pistachio nuts in the shell which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic Requirements:
(1) Free from:
(i) Foreign material;
(ii) Loose kernels;
(iii) Shell pieces;
(iv) Particles and dust; and,
(v) Blanks.
(b) Shells:
(1) Free from:
(i) Non-split shells; and,
(ii) Shells not split on suture.
(2) Free from damage by:
(i) Adhering hull material;
(ii) Light stained;
(iii) Dark stained; and,
(iv) Other External (shell) defects.
(c) Kernels:
(1) Well dried, or, very well dried when specified in connection with the grade.
(2) Free from damage by:
(i) Immature kernels;
(ii) Kernel spotting; and,
(iii) Other Internal (kernel) defects.
(3) Free from serious damage by:
(i) Minor insect or vertebrate injury;
(ii) Insect damage;
(iii) Mold;
(iv) Rancidity;
(v) Decay; and,
(vi) Other Internal (kernel) defects.
(d) The nuts are of a size not less than
30/64
inch in diameter as measured by a round hole screen.
(e) For tolerances, see § 51.2544.
[68 FR 50683, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2543
U.S. Non-Split.
“U.S. Non-Split” consists of non-split pistachio nuts in the shell which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Free from:
(i) Foreign material;
(ii) Loose kernels;
(iii) Shell pieces;
(iv) Particles and dust; and,
(v) Blanks.
(b) Shells:
(1) Free from damage by:
(i) Adhering hull material; and,
(ii) Dark stain.
(c) Kernels:
(1) Well dried, or very well dried when specified in connection with the grade.
(2) Free from damage by:
(i) Immature kernels;
(ii) Kernel spotting; and,
(iii) Other internal (kernel) defects.
(3) Free from serious damage by:
(i) Minor insect or vertebrate injury;
(ii) Insect damage;
(iii) Mold;
(iv) Rancidity;
(v) Decay; and,
(vi) Other Internal (kernel) defects.
(d) The nuts are of a size not less than
30/64
inch in diameter as measured by a round hole screen.
(e) For Tolerances, see § 51.2544.
[68 FR 50683, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2544
Tolerances.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the tolerances in Tables I, II, and III of this section are provided.
Table I—Tolerances
[Percent]
Factor
U.S. fancy
U.S. extra No. 1
U.S. No. 1
U.S. select
U.S. artificially opened
U.S. non-split
External (shell) Defects (tolerances by weight):
(a) Non-split and not split on suture
2
3
6
10
10
N/A
(1) Non-split included in (a)
1
2
3
4
4
N/A
(b) Adhering hull material
1
1
1
2
2
2
(c) Light stained
7
12
25
N/A
N/A
N/A
(1) Dark stained, included in (c)
2
3
3
3
3
3
(d) Damage by other means
1
1
2
3
10
N/A
(e) Total External Defects
9
16
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
(f) Undersized (Less than
30/64
inch in diameter)
5
5
5
5
4
5
Table II—Tolerances
Factor
internal (kernel) defects
(tolerances by weight)
U.S. fancy
(percent)
U.S. extra
No. 1
(percent)
U.S. No. 1
(percent)
U.S. select
(percent)
U.S. artificially opened
(percent)
U.S. non-split
(percent)
(a) Damage
3
6
6
6
6
6
(b) Serious Damage (Minor Insect or Vertebrate Injury, Mold, Rancid, Decay)
3
4
4
4
4
4
(1) Insect Damage, included in (b)
1
2
2
2
2
2
(c) Total Internal Defects
4
8
9
9
9
9
Table III—Tolerances
[Percent]
Factor
U.S. fancy
U.S. extra No. 1
U.S. No. 1
U.S. select
U.S. artificially opened
U.S. non-split
Other Defects (tolerances by weight):
(a) Shell pieces and blanks
2
2
2
2
2
2
(1) Blanks, included in (a)
1
1
1
1
1
1
(b) Foreign material (No glass, metal or live insects shall be permitted)
.25
.25
.25
.25
.25
.25
(c) Particles and dust
.25
.25
.25
.25
.25
.25
(d) Loose kernels
4
5
6
6
6
6
(b) [Reserved]
[68 FR 50683, Aug. 22, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 76835, Dec. 23, 2004]
§ 51.2545
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances for the grades apply to the entire lot and shall be based on a composite sample drawn from containers throughout the lot. Any container or group of containers which have nuts obviously different in quality or size from those in the majority of the containers shall be considered a separate lot and shall be sampled separately.
[68 FR 50684, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2546
Size.
Nuts may be considered as meeting a size designation specified in Table IV or a range in number of nuts per ounce, provided, the weight of 10 percent, by count, of the largest nuts in a sample does not exceed 1.50 times the weight of 10 percent, by count, of the smallest and the average number of nuts per ounce is not more than one-half nut above or below the extremes of the range specified.
Table IV—Nut Size
Size designations
Average number of nuts per ounce
1
Colossal
Less than 18.
Extra Large
18 to 20.
Large
21 to 25.
Medium
26 to 30.
Small
More than 30.
1
Before Roasting.
[68 FR 50684, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2547
Definitions.
(a)
Well dried
means the kernel is firm and crisp.
(b)
Very well dried
means the kernel is firm and crisp and the average moisture content of the lot does not exceed 7.00 percent or is specified. (See § 51.2548.)
(c)
Loose kernels
means edible kernels or kernel portions which are out of the shell and which cannot be considered particles and dust.
(d)
External (shell) defects
means any blemish affecting the hard covering around the kernel. Such defects include, but are not limited to, non-split shells, shells not split on suture, adhering hull material, light stained, or dark stained.
(1)
Damage
by external (shell) defects means any specific defect described in paragraphs (d)(1) (i) through (v) of this section, or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual shell or of the lot. (For tolerances see § 51.2544, Table I.)
(i)
Non-split shells
means shells are not opened or are partially opened and will not allow an
18/1000
(.018) inch thick by
1/4
(.25) inch wide gauge to slip into the opening.
(ii)
Not split on suture
means shells are split other than on the suture and will allow an
18/1000
(.018) inch thick by
1/4
(.25) inch wide gauge to slip into the opening.
(iii)
Adhering hull material
means an aggregate amount covers more than one-eighth of the total shell surface, or when readily noticeable on dyed shells.
(iv)
Light stained
on raw or roasted nuts, means an aggregate amount of yellow to light brown or light gray discoloration is noticeably contrasting with the predominate color of the shell and affects more than one-fourth of the total shell surface or, on dyed nuts, when readily noticeable.
(v)
Dark stained
on raw or roasted nuts, means an aggregate amount of dark brown, dark gray or black discoloration affects more than one-eighth of the total shell surface, or, on dyed nuts, when readily noticeable, provided that speckled appearing stain located within the area of one-fourth of the shell nearest the stem end shall be disregarded.
(e)
Internal (kernel) defects
means any blemish affecting the kernel. Such defects include, but are not limited to evidence of insects, immature kernels, rancid kernels, mold, or decay.
(1)
Damage
by internal (kernel) defects means any specific defect described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual kernel or of the lot. (For tolerances see § 51.2544, Table II.)
(i)
Immature kernels
are excessively thin or when a kernel fills less than three-fourths, but not less than one-half the shell cavity.
(ii)
Kernel spotting
refers to dark brown or dark gray spots aggregating more than one-eighth of the surface of the kernel.
(2)
Serious damage
by internal (kernel) defects means any specific defect described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (v) of this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or the marketing quality of the individual kernel or of the lot. (For tolerances see § 51.2544, Table II.)
(i)
Minor insect or vertebrate injury
means the kernel shows conspicuous evidence of feeding.
(ii)
Insect damage
is an insect, insect fragment, web or frass attached to the kernel. No live insects shall be permitted.
(iii)
Mold
which is readily visible on the shell or kernel.
(iv)
Rancidity
means the kernel is distinctly rancid to taste. Staleness of flavor shall not be classed as rancidity.
(v)
Decay
means one-sixteenth or more of the kernel surface is decomposed.
(f)
Other defects
means defects which cannot be considered internal defects or external defects. Such defects include, but are not limited to shell pieces, blanks, foreign material or particles and dust. The following shall be considered other defects. (For tolerances see § 51.2544, Table III.)
(1)
Shell pieces
means open in-shell nuts not containing a kernel, half shells or pieces of shell which are loose in the sample.
(2)
Blank
means a non-split shell not containing a kernel or containing a kernel that fills less than one-half the shell cavity.
(3)
Foreign material
means leaves, sticks, loose hulls or hull pieces, dirt, rocks, insects or insect fragments not attached to nuts, or any substance other than pistachio shells or kernels. Glass, metal or live insects shall not be permitted.
(4)
Particles and dust
means pieces of nut kernels which will pass through a
5/64
inch round opening.
(5)
Undersize
means pistachio nuts in the shell which fall through a
30/64
inch round hole screen.
[68 FR 50684, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2548
Average moisture content determination.
(a) Determining average moisture content of the lot is not a requirement of the grades, except when nuts are specified as “very well dried.” It may be carried out upon request in connection with grade analysis or as a separate determination.
(b) Nuts shall be obtained from a randomly drawn composite sample. Official certification shall be based on the air-oven method or other officially approved methods or devices. Results obtained by methods or devices not officially approved may be reported and shall include a description of the method or device and the owner of any equipment used.
[68 FR 50685, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2549
Metric conversion table.
Use the following table for metric conversion:
Inches
Millimeters
5/64
1.98
18/100
.46
1/4
6.35
30/64
11.88
Ounces
Grams
1
28.35
2
56.70
[68 FR 50685, Aug. 22, 2003]

# Subpart AA—United States Standards for Grades of Shelled Pistachio Nuts

# Source:
55 FR 28747, July 13, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.2555
General.
(a) Compliance with the provisions of these standards shall not excuse failure to comply with provisions of applicable Federal or State laws.
(b) These standards are applicable to raw, roasted, salted or salted/roasted pistachio kernels.
[55 FR 28747, July 13, 1990, as amended at 68 FR 50685, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2556
Grades.
(a) “U.S. Fancy,” “U.S. Extra No. 1,” and “U.S. No. 1” consist of pistachio kernels which meet the following requirements:
(1) Well dried, or very well dried when specified in connection with the grade.
(2) Free from:
(i) Foreign material, including in-shell nuts, shells, or shell fragments.
(3) Free from damage by:
(i) Immature kernels;
(ii) Kernel spotting; and
(iii) Other defects.
(4) Free from serious damage by:
(i) Mold;
(ii) Minor insect or vertebrate injury;
(iii) Insect damage;
(iv) Rancidity;
(v) Decay; and,
(vi) Other defects.
(5) Unless otherwise specified, kernels shall meet the size classification of Jumbo Whole Kernels (See § 51.2559).
(b) [Reserved]
[68 FR 50685, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2557
Tolerances.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the tolerances, by weight, in Table I are provided.
Table 1—Tolerances
Factor
(tolerances by weight)
U.S. fancy
(percent)
U.S. extra No. 1
(percent)
U.S. No. 1
(percent)
(a) Damage
2.0
2.5
3.0
(b) Serious Damage (Minor Insect or Vertebrate Injury, Mold, Rancid, Decay)
1.5
2.0
2.5
(1) Insect Damage, included in (b)
.3
.4
.5
(c) Foreign Material
.03
.05
.1
[55 FR 28747, July 13, 1990; 55 FR 29938, July 23, 1990, as amended at 68 FR 50685, Aug. 22, 2003; 69 FR 76835, Dec. 23, 2004]
§ 51.2558
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances for the grades apply to the entire lot and shall be based on a composite sample representative of the lot. Any container or group of containers which have kernels obviously different in quality or size from those in the majority of containers shall be considered a separate lot and shall be sampled separately.
§ 51.2559
Size classifications.
(a) The size of pistachio kernels may be specified in connection with the grade in accordance with one of the following size classifications.
(1) Jumbo Whole Kernels: 80 percent or more by weight shall be whole kernels and not more than 5 percent of the total sample shall pass through a
24/64
inch round hole screen with not more than 1 percent passing through a
16/64
inch round hole screen.
(2) Large Whole Kernels: 80 percent or more, by weight, shall be whole kernels and not more than 2 percent of the total sample shall pass through a
16/64
inch round hole screen.
(3) Large Split Kernels: 75 percent or more, by weight, shall be half kernels split lengthwise and not more than 5 percent of the total sample shall pass through a
16/64
inch round hole screen.
(4) Whole and Broken Kernels: means a mixture of any combination of whole kernels or pieces. The percentage of whole kernels and/or pieces may be specified. Not more than 5 percent of the total sample shall pass through a
5/64
inch round hole screen.
(b) [Reserved]
[68 FR 50685, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2560
Definitions.
(a)
Well dried
means the kernel is firm and crisp.
(b)
Very well dried
means the kernel is firm and crisp and the average moisture content of the lot does not exceed 7 percent or is specified (See § 51.2561).
(c)
Foreign material
means leaves, sticks, in-shell nuts, shells or pieces of shells, dirt, or rocks, or any other substance other than pistachio kernels. No allowable tolerances for metal or glass.
(d)
Whole kernel
means
3/4
of a kernel or more.
(e)
Splits
means more than
3/4
of a half kernel split lengthwise.
(f)
Damage
means any specific defect described in paragraph (f) (1) through (2) of this section or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual kernel or of the lot. (For tolerances, see § 51.2557, Table I.)
(1)
Immature kernels
are excessively thin kernels and can have black, brown or gray surface with a dark interior color and the immaturity has adversely affected the flavor of the kernel.
(2)
Kernel spotting
refers to dark brown or dark gray spots aggregating more than one-eighth of the surface of the kernel.
(g)
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in paragraph (g) (1) through (5) of this section, or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual kernel or of the lot. (For tolerances see § 51.2557 Table I.)
(1)
Mold
which is readily visible on the kernel.
(2)
Minor insect or vertebrate injury
means the kernel shows conspicuous evidence of feeding.
(3)
Insect damage
is an insect, insect fragment, web or frass attached to the kernel. No live insects shall be permitted.
(4)
Rancidity
means the kernel is distinctly rancid to taste. Staleness of flavor shall not be classed as rancidity.
(5)
Decay
means one-sixteenth or more of the kernel is decomposed.
[68 FR 50685, Aug. 22, 2003]
§ 51.2561
Average moisture content.
(a) Determining average moisture content of the lot is not a requirement of the grades, except when kernels are specified as “very well dried.” It may be carried out upon request in connection with grade analysis or as a separate determination.
(b) Kernels shall be obtained from a randomly drawn composite sample. Official certification shall be based on the air-oven method or other officially approved methods or devices. Results obtained by methods or devices not officially approved may be reported and shall include a description of the method or device and owner of any equipment used.
§ 51.2562
Metric Conversion Table.
Use the following table for metric conversion:
Inches
Millimeters
5/64
1.98
16/64
6.35
24/64
9.53
Ounces
Grams
1
28.35
2
56.7
[68 FR 50686, Aug. 22, 2003]

# Subpart BB—United States Standards for Grades for Sweet Cherries

# Source:
36 FR 8502, May 7, 1971, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.2646
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of sweet cherries which meet the following requirements:
(a) Similar varietal characteristics;
(b) Mature;
(c) Fairly well colored;
(d) Well formed; and
(e) Clean.
(f) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Insect larvae or holes caused by them;
(3) Soft, overripe or shriveled;
(4) Undeveloped doubles; and,
(5) Sunscald.
(g) Free from damage by any other cause. (See § 51.2655.)
(h)
Size.
Unless otherwise specified, the minimum diameter of each cherry shall be not less than three-fourths inch. The maximum diameter of the cherries in any lot may be specified in accordance with the facts.
(i) For tolerances see § 51.2648.
§ 51.2647
U.S. Commercial.
“U.S. Commercial” consists of sweet cherries which meet the requirements for the U.S. No. 1 grade except for minimum diameter and except for increased tolerances.
(a)
Size.
Unless otherwise specified, the diameter of each cherry shall be not less than five-eighths inch. The maximum diameter of the cherries in any lot may be specified in accordance with the facts.
(b) For tolerances see § 51.2648.

# Tolerances
§ 51.2648
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, are provided as specified:
(a)
For defects at shipping point
2
—(1)
U.S. No. 1.
8 percent for cherries which fail to meet the requirements for this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 4 percent shall be allowed for defects causing serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than one-half of 1 percent for cherries which are affected by decay.
2
Shipping point, as used in these standards, means the point of origin of the shipment in the producing area or at port of loading for ship stores or overseas shipment, or, in the case of shipments from outside the continental United States, the port of entry into the United States.
(2)
U.S. Commercial.
16 percent for cherries which fail to meet the requirements for this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than 4 percent shall be allowed for defects causing serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than one-half of 1 percent for cherries affected by decay.
(b)
For defects en route or at destination
—(1)
U.S. No. 1.
12 percent for cherries in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(i) 8 percent for cherries which fail to meet the requirements for this grade because of permanent defects; or,
(ii) 6 percent for cherries which are seriously damaged, including therein not more than 4 percent for cherries which are seriously damaged by permanent defects and not more than 2 percent for cherries which are affected by decay.
(2)
U.S. Commercial.
24 percent for cherries in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for this grade:
Provided,
That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:
(i) 16 percent for cherries which fail to meet the requirements for this grade because of permanent defects; or,
(ii) 6 percent for cherries which are seriously damaged, including therein not more than 4 percent for cherries which are seriously damaged by permanent defects and not more than 2 percent for cherries which are affected by decay.
(c)
For off-size.
5 percent for cherries which fail to meet the specified minimum diameter and 10 percent for cherries that fail to meet any specified maximum diameter.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2649
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples shall have not more than double the tolerances specified, except that at least two defective and two off-size specimens may be permitted in any sample:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.

# Definitions
§ 51.2650
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the cherries in any container are similar in color and shape.
§ 51.2651
Mature.
Mature
means that the cherries have reached the stage of growth which will insure the proper completion of the ripening process.
§ 51.2652
Fairly well colored.
Fairly well colored
means that at least 95 percent of the surface of the cherry shows characteristic color for mature cherries of the variety.
§ 51.2653
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the cherry has the normal shape characteristic of the variety, except that mature well developed doubles shall be considered well formed when each of the halves is approximately evenly formed.
§ 51.2654
Clean.
Clean
means that the cherries are practically free from dirt, dust, spray residue, or other foreign material.
§ 51.2655
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Cracks within the stem cavity when deep or not well healed, or when the appearance is affected to a greater extent than that of a cherry which has a superficial well healed crack one-sixteenth inch in width extending one-half the greatest circumference of the stem cavity;
(b) Cracks outside of the stem cavity when deep or not well healed, or when the crack has weakened the cherry to the extent that it is likely to split or break in the process of proper grading, packing, and handling, or when materially affecting the appearance;
(c) Hail injury when deep or not well healed, or when the aggregate area exceeds the area of a circle three-sixteenths inch in diameter;
(d) Insects when scale or more than one scale mark is present, or when the appearance is materially affected by any insect;
(e) Limbrubs when affecting the appearance of the cherry to a greater extent than the amount of scarring permitted;
(f) Pulled stems when the skin or flesh is torn, or when the cherry is leaking;
(g) Russeting when affecting the appearance of the cherry to a greater extent than the amount of scarring permitted;
(h) Scars when excessively deep or rough or dark colored and the aggregate area exceeds the area of a circle three-sixteenths inch in diameter, or when smooth or fairly smooth, light colored and superficial and the aggregate area exceeds the area of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter;
(i) Skin breaks when not well healed or when the appearance of the cherry is materially affected; and,
(j) Sutures when excessively deep or when affecting the shape of the cherry to the extent that it is not well formed.
§ 51.2656
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a line from the stem to the blossom end of the cherry.
§ 51.2657
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the fruit. The following specific defects shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Decay;
(b) Insect larvae or holes caused by them;
(c) Skin breaks which are not well healed;
(d) Cracks which are not well healed; and,
(e) Pulled stems with skin or flesh of cherry torn or which causes the cherry to leak.
[36 FR 8502, May 5, 1971; 36 FR 9061, May 19, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 51.2658
Permanent defects.
Permanent defects
means defects which are not subject to change during shipping or storage; including, but not limited to factors of shape, scarring, skin breaks, injury caused by hail or insects, and mechanical injury which is so located as to indicate that it occurred prior to shipment.
§ 51.2659
Condition defects.
Condition defects
means defects which may develop or change during shipment or storage; including, but not limited to decayed or soft cherries and such factors as pitting, shriveling, sunken areas, brown discoloration and bruising which is so located as to indicate that it occurred after packing.

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.2660
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters (mm)
8/64
equals
3.2
16/64
equals
6.4
24/64
equals
9.5
32/64
equals
12.7
40/64
equals
15.9
48/64
equals
19.1
51/64
equals
20.2
52/64
equals
20.6
54/64
equals
21.4
56/64
equals
22.2
1 equals
25.4
1
8/64
equals
28.6
1
16/64
equals
31.8
1
24/64
equals
34.9

# Subpart CC—United States Standards for Shelled Runner Type Peanuts

# Source:
21 FR 4850, June 30, 1956, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.2710
U.S. No. 1 Runner.
“U.S. No. 1 Runner” consists of shelled Runner type peanut kernels of similar varietal characteristics which are whole and free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
16/64
×
3/4
inch openings.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling,
the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 1 percent for other varieties of peanuts;
(2) 3 percent for sound peanuts which are split or broken;
(3) 1.5 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts;
(4) 0.5 percent for minor defects:
Provided,
That in addition, any unused part of the tolerance for damaged or unshelled peanuts shall be allowed for minor defects;
(5) 0.1 percent for foreign material; and,
(6) 3 percent for sound whole peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.
[21 FR 4850, June 30, 1956, as amended at 21 FR 5669, July 28, 1956. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 51.2711
U.S. Runner Splits.
“U.S. Runner Splits” consists of shelled Runner type peanut kernels of similar varietal characteristics which are split or broken, but which are free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
17/64
inch round openings.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 2 percent for other varieties of peanuts;
(2) 2 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts and minor defects;
(3) 0.2 percent for foreign material;
(4) 2 percent for sound portions of peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen; and,
(5) 4 percent for sound whole peanuts.
§ 51.2712
U.S. No. 2 Runner.
“U.S. No. 2 Runner” consists of shelled Runner type peanut kernels of similar varietal characteristics which may be split or broken, but which are free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
17/64
inch round openings.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 2 percent for other varieties of peanuts;
(2) 2.5 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts and minor defects;
(3) 0.2 percent for foreign material; and,
(4) 6 percent for sound peanuts and portions of peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2713
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances provided in these standards are on a lot basis and shall be applied to a composite sample representative of the lot. However, any container or group of containers in which the peanuts are obviously of a quality materially different from that in the majority of containers shall be considered a separate lot, and shall be sampled separately.

# Definitions
§ 51.2714
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the peanut kernels in the lot are not of distinctly different varieties. For example, Spanish type shall not be mixed with Runners.
§ 51.2715
Whole.
Whole
means that the peanut kernel is not split or broken.
§ 51.2716
Split.
Split
means the separated half of a peanut kernel.
§ 51.2717
Broken.
Broken
means that more than one-fourth of the peanut kernel is broken off.
§ 51.2718
Foreign material.
Foreign material
means pieces or loose particles of any substance other than peanut kernels or skins.
§ 51.2719
Unshelled.
Unshelled
means a peanut kernel with part or all of the hull (shell) attached.
§ 51.2720
Minor defects.
Minor defects
means that the peanut kernel is not damaged but is affected by one or more of the following:
(a) Skin discoloration which is dark brown, dark gray, dark blue or black and covers more than one-fourth of the surface;
(b) Flesh discoloration which is darker than a light yellow color or consists of more than a slight yellow pitting of the flesh;
(c) Sprout extending more than one-eighth of an inch from the tip of the kernel; and,
(d) Dirt when the surface of the kernel is distinctly dirty, and its appearance is materially affected.
§ 51.2721
Damage.
Damage
means that the peanut kernel is affected by one or more of the following:
(a) Rancidity or decay;
(b) Mold;
(c) Insects, worm cuts, web or frass;
(d) Freezing injury causing hard, translucent or discolored flesh; and
(e) Dirt when the surface of the kernel is heavily smeared, thickly flecked or coated with dirt, seriously affecting its appearance.

# Subpart DD—United States Standards for Grades of Shelled Spanish Type Peanuts

# Source:
30 FR 7595, June 11, 1965, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.2730
U.S. No. 1 Spanish.
“U.S. No. 1 Spanish” consists of shelled Spanish type peanut kernels which are whole and free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
15/64
×
3/4
inch openings.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 1 percent for other types of peanuts;
(2) 3 percent for sound peanuts which are split or broken;
(3) 1.5 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts;
(4) 0.5 percent for minor defects:
Provided,
That in addition, any unused part of the tolerance for damaged or unshelled peanuts shall be allowed for minor defects;
(5) 0.1 percent for foreign material; and,
(6) 2 percent for sound whole peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.
§ 51.2731
U.S. Spanish Splits.
“U.S. Spanish Splits” consists of shelled Spanish type peanut kernels which are split or broken, but which are free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
16/64
inch round openings.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 2 percent for other types of peanuts;
(2) 2 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts and minor defects;
(3) 0.2 percent for foreign material;
(4) 2 percent for sound portions of peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen; and,
(5) 4 percent for sound whole kernels.
§ 51.2732
U.S. No. 2 Spanish.
“U.S. No. 2 Spanish” consists of shelled Spanish type peanut kernels which may be split or broken, but which are free from foreign material, damage, and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
16/64
inch round openings.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 2 percent for other types of peanuts;
(2) 2.5 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts and minor defects;
(3) 0.2 percent for foreign material; and,
(4) 6 percent for sound peanuts and portions of peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2733
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances provided in these standards are on a lot basis and shall be applied to a composite sample representative of the lot. However, any container or group of containers in which the peanuts are obviously of a quality materially different from that in the majority of containers shall be considered a separate lot, and shall be sampled and graded separately.

# Definitions
§ 51.2734
Spanish type.
Spanish type
means peanuts of varieties which belong to the Spanish classification group and which are free from kernels of Runner, Virginia, or other types.
§ 51.2735
Whole.
Whole
means that the peanut kernel is not split or broken.
§ 51.2736
Split.
Split
means the separated half of a peanut kernel.
§ 51.2737
Broken.
Broken
means that more than one-fourth of the peanut kernel is broken off.
§ 51.2738
Foreign material.
Foreign material
means pieces or loose particles of any substance other than peanut kernels or skins.
§ 51.2739
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or any other defect, or any combination of defects which materially detracts from the edible quality of the peanut. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Rancidity or decay;
(b) Mold;
(c) Insects, worm cuts, web or frass;
(d) Freezing injury causing hard, translucent, or discolored flesh; and,
(e) Dirt when the surface of the kernel is heavily smeared, thickly flecked or coated with dirt, seriously affecting its appearance.
§ 51.2740
Minor defects.
Minor defects
means that the peanut kernel is not damaged but is affected by one or more of the following:
(a) Skin discoloration which is dark brown, dark gray, dark blue or black and covers more than one-fourth of the surface;
(b) Flesh discoloration which is darker than a light yellow color or consists of more than a slight yellow pitting of the flesh;
(c) Sprout extending more than one-eighth of an inch from the tip of the kernel; and,
(d) Dirt when the surface of the kernel is distinctly dirty, and its appearance is materially affected.
§ 51.2741
Unshelled.
Unshelled
means a peanut kernel with part or all of the hull (shell) attached.

# Subpart EE—United States Standards for Shelled Virginia Type Peanuts

# Source:
24 FR 6182, Aug. 1, 1959; 24 FR 6671, Aug. 18, 1959, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.2750
U.S. Extra Large Virginia.
“U.S. Extra Large Virginia” consists of shelled Virginia type peanut kernels of similar varietal characteristics which are whole and free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
20/64
× 1 inch openings. Unless otherwise specified, the peanuts in any lot shall average not more than 512 per pound.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 0.75 percent for other varieties of peanuts;
(2) 3 percent for sound peanuts which are split or broken;
(3) 1 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts;
(4) 0.75 percent for minor defects:
Provided,
That in addition, any unused part of the tolerance for damaged or
unshelled peanuts shall be allowed for minor defects;
(5) 0.1 percent for foreign material; and,
(6) 3 percent for sound, whole peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.
§ 51.2751
U.S. Medium Virginia.
“U.S. Medium Virginia” consists of shelled Virginia type peanut kernels of similar varietal characteristics which are whole and free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
18/64
× 1 inch openings. Unless otherwise specified, the peanuts in any lot shall average not more than 640 per pound.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 1 percent for other varieties of peanuts;
(2) 3 percent for sound peanuts which are split or broken;
(3) 1.25 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts;
(4) 0.75 percent for minor defects:
Provided,
That in addition, any unused part of the tolerance for damaged or unshelled peanuts shall be allowed for minor defects;
(5) 0.1 percent for foreign material; and,
(6) 3 percent for sound, whole peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.
§ 51.2752
U.S. No. 1 Virginia.
“U.S. No. 1 Virginia” consists of shelled Virginia type peanut kernels of similar varietal characteristics which are whole and free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
15/64
× 1 inch openings. Unless otherwise specified, the peanuts in any lot shall average not more than 864 per pound.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 1 percent for other varieties of peanuts;
(2) 3 percent for sound peanuts which are split or broken;
(3) 1.25 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts;
(4) 0.75 percent for minor defects:
Provided,
That in addition, any unused part of the tolerance for damaged or unshelled peanuts shall be allowed for minor defects;
(5) 0.1 percent for foreign material; and,
(6) 3 percent for sound, whole peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.
[24 FR 6671, Aug. 18, 1959. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 51.2753
U.S. Virginia Splits.
“U.S. Virginia Splits” consists of shelled Virginia type peanut kernels of similar varietal characteristics which are free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
20/64
inch round openings. Not less than 90 percent, by weight, shall be splits.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 2 percent for other varieties of peanuts;
(2) 2 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts and minor defects;
(3) 0.2 percent for foreign materials; and,
(4) 3 percent for sound peanuts and portions of peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.
[24 FR 6671, Aug. 18, 1959. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 51.2754
U.S. No. 2 Virginia.
“U.S. No. 2 Virginia” consists of shelled Virginia type peanut kernels of similar varietal characteristics which may be split or broken, but which are free from foreign material, damage and minor defects, and which will not pass through a screen having
17/64
inch round openings.
(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:
(1) 2 percent for other varieties of peanuts;
(2) 2.5 percent for damaged or unshelled peanuts and minor defects;
(3) 0.2 percent for foreign material; and,
(4) 6 percent for sound peanuts and portions of peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2755
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances provided in these standards are on a lot basis and shall be applied to a composite sample representative of the lot. However, any container or group of containers in which the peanuts are obviously of a quality materially different from that in the majority of containers shall be considered a separate lot, and shall be sampled separately.

# Definitions
§ 51.2756
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the peanut kernels in the lot are not of distinctly different varieties. For example, Spanish type shall not be mixed with Virginia type.
§ 51.2757
Whole.
Whole
means that the peanut kernel is not split or broken.
§ 51.2758
Split.
Split
means the separated half of a peanut kernel.
§ 51.2759
Broken.
Broken
means that more than one-fourth of the peanut kernel is broken off.
§ 51.2760
Foreign material.
Foreign material
means pieces or loose particles of any substance other than peanut kernels or skins.
§ 51.2761
Unshelled.
Unshelled
means a peanut kernel with part or all of the hull (shell) attached.
§ 51.2762
Minor defects.
Minor defects
means that the peanut kernel is not damaged but is affected by one or more of the following:
(a) Skin discoloration which is dark brown, dark gray, dark blue or black and covers more than one-fourth of the surface;
(b) Flesh discoloration which is darker than a light yellow color or consists of more than a slight yellow pitting of the flesh;
(c) Sprout extending more than one-eighth of an inch from the tip of the kernel; and,
(d) Dirt when the surface of the kernel is distinctly dirty, and its appearance is materially affected.
§ 51.2763
Damage.
Damage
means that the peanut kernel is affected by one or more of the following:
(a) Rancidity or decay;
(b) Mold;
(c) Insects, worm cuts, web or frass;
(d) Freezing injury causing hard, translucent or discolored flesh; and,
(e) Dirt when the surface of the kernel is heavily smeared, thickly flecked or coated with dirt, seriously affecting its appearance.

# Subpart FF—United States Standards for Grades of Onions (Other Than Bermuda-Granex-Grano and Creole Types)

# Source:
60 FR 46977, Sept. 8, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.2830
U.S. No. 1.
U.S. No. 1
consists of onions which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Similar varietal characteristics, except color when designated as a specialty or mixed pack;
(2) Mature;
(3) Fairly firm; and,
(4) Fairly well shaped.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Wet sunscald;
(3) Doubles;
(4) Bottlenecks; and,
(5) Scallions.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Seedstems;
(2) Splits;
(3) Tops;
(4) Roots;
(5) Dry sunken areas;
(6) Sunburn;
(7) Sprouts;
(8) Freezing;
(9) Peeling;
(10) Cracked fleshy scales;
(11) Watery scales;
(12) Dirt or staining;
(13) Foreign matter;
(14) Mechanical;
(15) Translucent scales;
(16) Disease;
(17) Insects; and,
(18) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.2837.
(e) Size. Unless otherwise specified the diameter shall be not less than 1
1/2
inches, and yellow, brown, or red onions shall have 40 percent or more, and white onions shall have 30 percent or more, by weight, of the onions in any lot 2 inches or larger in diameter.
(f) When a percentage of the onions is specified to be of any certain size or larger, no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce the specified percentage, but individual packages in a lot may have as much as 25 percentage points less than the percentage specified, except that individual packages containing 10 pounds or less shall have no requirements as to percentage of a certain size or larger:
Provided,
that any lot, regardless of package size, shall average within the percentage specified. (See §§ 51.2836 and 51.2837)
1
1
Any lot of onions quoted as being of size smaller than 1
1/2
inches minimum, such as “U.S. No. 1, 1
1/4
inches min.” is not required to meet the percentages which shall be 2 inches or larger as specified in the U.S. No. 1 grade.
[60 FR 46977, Sept. 8, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 63294, Oct. 23, 2014]
§ 51.2831
U.S. Export No. 1.
U.S. Export No. 1
consists of onions which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Similar varietal characteristics, except color when designated as a specialty or mixed pack;
(2) Mature;
(3) Dormant;
(4) Fairly firm; and,
(5) Fairly well shaped.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Wet sunscald;
(3) Doubles;
(4) Bottlenecks; and,
(5) Scallions.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Seedstems;
(2) Splits;
(3) Tops;
(4) Roots;
(5) Dry sunken areas;
(6) Sunburn;
(7) Sprouts;
(8) Freezing;
(9) Peeling;
(10) Cracked fleshy scales;
(11) Watery scales;
(12) Dirt or staining;
(13) Foreign matter;
(14) Mechanical;
(15) Translucent scales;
(16) Disease;
(17) Insects; and,
(18) Other means.
(d) Unless otherwise specified onions are packed in accordance with Export Packing Requirements set forth in § 51.2840. (See § 51.2837.)
[60 FR 46977, Sept. 8, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 63294, Oct. 23, 2014]
§ 51.2832
U.S. Commercial.
U.S. Commercial
consists of onions which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Similar varietal characteristics, except color when designated as a specialty or mixed pack;
(2) Mature;
(3) Not soft or spongy; and,
(4) Not badly misshapen.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Wet sunscald;
(3) Doubles;
(4) Bottlenecks; and,
(5) Scallions.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Seedstems;
(2) Tops;
(3) Roots;
(4) Dry sunken areas;
(5) Sunburn;
(6) Sprouts;
(7) Freezing;
(8) Cracked fleshy scales;
(9) Watery scales;
(10) Mechanical;
(11) Translucent scales;
(12) Disease;
(13) Insects; and,
(14) Other means.
(d) Free from serious damage caused by:
(1) Staining;
(2) Dirt; and,
(3) Other foreign matter.
(e) For tolerances see § 51.2837.
(f) Size. Unless otherwise specified, the diameter shall be not less than 1
1/2
inches. (See §§ 51.2836 and 51.2837.)
[60 FR 46977, Sept. 8, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 63294, Oct. 23, 2014]
§ 51.2833
U.S. No. 1 Boilers.
U.S. No. 1 Boilers
consists of onions which meet all the requirements for the U.S. No. 1 grade except for size. (See § 51.2830.) Size: The diameter of onions of this grade shall be not less than 1 inch nor more than 1
7/8
inches. (See § 51.2837.)
§ 51.2834
U.S. No. 1 Picklers.
U.S. No. 1 Picklers
consists of onions which meet all the requirements for the U.S. No. 1 grade except for size. (See § 51.2830.) Size: The maximum diameter of onions of this grade shall be not more than 1 inch. (See § 51.2837.)
§ 51.2835
U.S. No. 2.
U.S. No. 2
consists of onions which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) One type, except when designated as a specialty or mixed pack;
(2) Mature; and,
(3) Not soft or spongy.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Wet sunscald; and,
(3) Scallions.
(c) Free from serious damage caused by:
(1) Watery scales;
(2) Dirt or Staining;
(3) Foreign Matter;
(4) Seedstems;
(5) Sprouts;
(6) Mechanical;
(7) Dry sunken areas;
(8) Disease;
(9) Freezing;
(10) Insects; and,
(11) Other means.
(d) For tolerances see § 51.2837.
(e) Size. Unless otherwise specified, the diameter shall not be less than 1
1/2
inches. (See §§ 51.2836 and 51.2837.)
[60 FR 46977, Sept. 8, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 63294, Oct. 23, 2014]

# Size Classifications
§ 51.2836
Size classifications.
The size of onions may be specified in accordance with one of the following classifications.
Size designation
Minimum diameter
Inches
Millimeters
Maximum diameter
Inches
Millimeters
Small
1
25.4
2
1/4
57.2
Repacker/Prepacker
1
1
3/4
44.5
3
76.2
Medium
2
50.8
3
1/4
82.6
Large or Jumbo
3
76.2
(
2
)
Colossal
3
3/4
95.3
(
2
)
1
In addition to the sizes specified, a lot of onions designated as Repacker or Prepacker shall contain at least 60 percent or more 2 inches or larger in diameter.
2
No requirement.

# Tolerances
§ 51.2837
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades the following tolerances, by weight, are provided as specified:
(a) For defects:
(1)
U.S. No. 1, U.S. Export No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Boilers and U.S. No. 1 Picklers grades.
(i) Not more than 10 percent of
the onions in a lot may be damaged by peeling; and,
(ii) Not more than 5 percent of the onions in a lot may be below the remaining requirements of these grades, but not more than two-fifths of this tolerance, or 2 percent, may be allowed for onions which are affected by decay or wet sunscald (see § 51.2839.)
(2)
U.S. Commercial and U.S. No. 2 grades.
(i) Not more than 5 percent of the onions in a lot may be below the requirements of these grades, but not more than two-fifths of this tolerance, or 2 percent, may be allowed for onions which are affected by decay or wet sunscald. (See § 51.2839.)
(ii) [Reserved]
(b) For off-size:
(1)
U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Boilers, U.S. Commercial, and U.S. No. 2 grades.
Not more than 5 percent of the onions in a lot may be below the specified minimum size, and not more than 10 percent may be above any specified maximum size. (See § 51.2839.)
(2)
U.S. No. 1 Pickler grade.
Not more than 10 percent of the onions in a lot may be above the maximum size specified for this grade. (See § 51.2839.)

# Samples for Grade and Size Determination
§ 51.2838
Samples for grade and size determination.
Individual samples shall consist of at least 20 pounds for onions packed to meet larger than 2
1/4
inches maximum diameter. When individual packages contain 20 pounds or more and the onions are packed for Large or Jumbo size or larger the package shall be the sample. When individual packages contain less than 20 pounds, a sufficient number of adjoining packages are opened to provide at least a 20 pound sample, except that for onions packed to meet 2
1/4
inches maximum diameter or smaller, the sample may consist of either 20 pounds or the individual package.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2839
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples are subject to the following limitations:
(a) Samples which contain more than 20 pounds shall have not more than one and one half times a specified tolerance of 10 percent or more, and not more than double a specified tolerance of less than 10 percent, except that at least one defective and one off-size onion may be permitted in any sample:
Provided,
that en-route or at destination when onions in containers of 50 pounds or more are packed to a minimum size of 3 inches or larger not more than three onions or more than 4 percent (whichever is the larger amount) may be affected by decay or wet sunscald:
And provided further,
that the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade; and,
(b) Samples which contain 20 pounds or less shall have not more than double the tolerance specified, except that at least one defective and one off-size onion may be permitted in any sample:
Provided,
that the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.

# Export Packing Requirements
§ 51.2840
Export packing requirements.
Onions specified as meeting Export Packing Requirements shall be packed in containers having a net capacity of 25 kilograms (approximately 56 pounds).

# Definitions
§ 51.2841
Mature.
Mature
means well cured. Midseason onions which are not customarily held in storage shall be considered mature when harvested in accordance with good commercial practice at a stage which will not result in the onions becoming soft or spongy.
§ 51.2842
Dormant.
Dormant
means that at least 90 percent of the onions in any lot show no evidence of growth as indicated by distinct elongation of the growing point or distinct yellow or green color in the tip of the growing point.
§ 51.2843
Fairly firm.
Fairly firm
means that the onion may yield slightly to moderate pressure but is not appreciably soft or spongy.
§ 51.2844
Fairly well shaped.
Fairly well shaped
means having the shape characteristic of the variety, but onions may be slightly off-type or slightly misshapen.
§ 51.2845
Wet sunscald.
Wet sunscald
means sunscald which is soft, mushy, sticky or wet.
§ 51.2846
Doubles.
Doubles
means onions which have developed more than one distinct bulb joined only at the base.
§ 51.2847
Bottlenecks.
Bottlenecks
are onions which have abnormally thick necks with only fairly well developed bulbs.
§ 51.2848
Scallions.
Scallions
are onions which have thick necks and relatively small and poorly developed bulbs.
§ 51.2849
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or any equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the onions. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Seedstems which are tough or woody, or which are more than
1/4
inch in diameter;
(b) Splits when onions with two or more hearts are not practically covered by one or more outer scales;
(c) Tops when more than 30 percent of the onions in a lot have tops 3 inches or more in length;
(d) New roots when most roots on an individual onion have grown to a length of 1 inch or more in length;
(e) Dry roots when more than 20 percent of the onions in a lot have practically all roots 2 inches or more in length;
(f) Dry sunken areas when the affected areas exceed the equivalent to that of a circle
1/2
inch in diameter on an onion 2
3/4
inches in diameter which does not have the outer papery scale covering the affected areas or when the affected areas exceed the equivalent to that of a circle
3/4
inch in diameter on an onion 2
3/4
inches in diameter which has the outer papery scale covering the affected areas. Correspondingly lesser or greater areas are allowed on smaller or larger onions;
(g) Sunburn when more than 33 percent of the onions in a lot have a medium green color on one-third of the surface;
(h) Sprouts when visible, or when concealed within the dry top and more than
3/4
inch in length on an onion 2 inches or larger in diameter, or proportionately shorter on smaller onions;
(i) Peeling when more than one-half of the thin papery skin is missing, leaving the underlying fleshy scale unprotected;
(j) Cracked fleshy scales when one or more of the fleshy scales are cracked;
(k) Watery scales when more than the equivalent of the entire outer fleshy scale is affected by an off-color, watersoaked condition. The off-color must be of some shade of brown or yellow;
(l) Dirt, staining or other foreign matter when more than 20 percent of the onions in a yellow, brown or red lot, or more than 15 percent of the onions in a white lot are appreciably stained. Onions with adhering dirt or other foreign matter shall be judged on the same basis as stained onions;
(m) Mechanical when any cut extends deeper than one fleshy scale, or when any bruise breaks a fleshy scale; and,
(n) Translucent scales when more than the equivalent of two entire outer fleshy scales have a watersoaked condition.
§ 51.2850
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension measured at right angles to a straight line running from the stem to the root.
§ 51.2851
Badly misshapen.
Badly misshapen
means that the onion is so misshapen that its appearance is seriously affected.
§ 51.2852
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in this section; or any equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect,
or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance, or the edible or marketing quality of the onions. The following specific defects shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Watery scales when more than the equivalent of two entire outer fleshy scales are affected by an off-colored, watersoaked condition. The off-color must be of some shade of brown or yellow;
(b) Dirt, staining or other foreign matter when more than 25 percent of the onions in a lot are badly stained. Onions with adhering dirt or other foreign matter shall be judged on the same basis as stained onions;
(c) Seedstems when more than
1/2
inch in diameter;
(d) Sprouts when the visible length is more than
1/2
inch;
(e) Mechanical when any cut extends deeper than two fleshy scales, or when cuts seriously damage the appearance of the onion; and,
(f) Dry sunken areas when extending deeper than one fleshy scale, or when affecting an area equivalent to that of a circle 1 inch in diameter on an onion 2
3/4
inches in diameter, or correspondingly lesser or greater areas on smaller or larger onions.
§ 51.2853
One type.
One type
means that the onions are within the same general color category.

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.2854
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters (mm)
1/8
3.2
1/4
6.4
3/8
9.5
1/2
12.7
5/8
15.9
3/4
19.1
7/8
22.2
1
25.4
1
1/4
31.8
1
1/2
38.1
1
3/4
44.5
2
50.8
2
1/2
63.5
2
3/4
69.9
3
76.2
3
1/2
88.9
4
101.6

# Subpart GG—United States Standards for Grades of Walnuts in the Shell

# Source:
29 FR 12865, Sept. 12, 1964, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# General
§ 51.2945
Application.
The standards contained in this subpart apply only to walnuts commonly known as English or Persian walnuts (Juglans regia). They do not apply to the walnuts commonly known as black walnuts (Juglans nigra).
§ 51.2946
[Reserved]
§ 51.2947
Method of inspection.
In determining the grade of a lot of walnuts, all of the nuts in the sample first should be graded for size and then examined for external defects. The same nuts then should be cracked and examined for internal defects. The nuts must meet the requirements for both external and internal quality in order to meet a designated grade.

# Grades
§ 51.2948
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of walnuts in shells which are dry, practically clean, bright and free from splits, injury by discoloration, and free from damage caused by broken shells, perforated shells, adhering hulls or other means. The kernels are well dried, free from decay, dark discoloration, rancidity, and free from damage caused by mold, shriveling, insects or other means. (See § 51.2954.)
(a) Kernel color shall be specified in connection with this grade in terms of “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” from the USDA Walnut Color Chart or in terms of “red” color. The color classifications in the USDA Walnut Color Chart shall not apply to “red” color. Furthermore, “red” color shall not be mixed with “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” colors. When kernel color is based on the color classifications from the USDA Walnut Color Chart, at least 70
percent, by count, of the walnuts have kernels which are not darker than “light amber,” and which are free from grade defects:
Provided,
That at least four-sevenths of the above amount, or 40 percent of the walnuts have kernels which are not darker than “light.” Higher percentages of nuts with kernels not darker than “light amber” which are free from grade defects and/or higher percentages with kernels not darker than “light” which are free from grade defects, may be specified in accordance with the facts. (See § 51.2954.)
(b) Size shall be specified in connection with the grade. (See § 51.2952.)
[29 FR 12865, Sept. 12, 1964. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 82 FR 39657, Aug. 22, 2017]
§ 51.2949
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of walnuts in shells which are dry, practically clean and free from splits, and free from damage caused by broken shells, perforated shells, adhering hulls, discoloration or other means. The kernels are well dried, free from decay, dark discoloration, rancidity, and free from damage caused by mold, shriveling, insects or other means. (See § 51.2954.)
(a) Kernel color shall be specified in connection with this grade in terms of “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” from the USDA Walnut Color Chart or in terms of “red” color. The color classifications in the USDA Walnut Color Chart shall not apply to “red” color. Furthermore, “red” color shall not be mixed with “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” colors. When kernel color is based on the color classifications from the USDA Walnut Color Chart, at least 60 percent, by count, of the walnuts have kernels which are not darker than “light amber,” and which are free from grade defects. Higher percentages of nuts with kernels not darker than “light amber” which are free from grade defects, and/or percentages with kernels not darker than “light” which are free from grade defects, may be specified in accordance with the facts. (See § 51.2954.)
(b) Size shall be specified in connection with the grade. (See § 51.2952.)
[29 FR 12865, Sept. 12, 1964. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 82 FR 39657, Aug. 22, 2017]
§ 51.2950
U.S. No. 3.
“U.S. No. 3” consists of walnuts in shells which are dry, fairly clean, free from splits, and free from damage caused by broken shells, and free from serious damage caused by discoloration, perforated shells, adhering hulls or other means. The kernels are well dried, free from decay, dark discoloration, rancidity, and free from damage caused by mold, shriveling, insects or other means. (See § 51.2954.)
(a) Kernel color may be specified in connection with this grade in terms of “light amber” or “light” from the USDA Walnut Color Chart or in terms of “red” color. The color classifications in the USDA Walnut Color Chart shall not apply to “red” color. Furthermore, “red” color shall not be mixed with “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” colors. When kernel color is based on the color classifications from the USDA Walnut Color Chart, there is no requirement in this grade for the percentage of walnuts having kernels which are “light amber” or “light.” However, the percentage, by count, of nuts with kernels not darker than “light amber” which are free from grade defects and/or the percentage with kernels not darker than “light” which are free from grade defects, may be specified in accordance with the facts. (See § 51.2954.)
(b) Size shall be specified in connection with the grade. (See § 51.2952.)
[29 FR 12865, Sept. 12, 1964. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 82 FR 39657, Aug. 22, 2017]

# Unclassified
§ 51.2951
[Reserved]

# Size Specifications
§ 51.2952
Size specifications.
Size shall be specified in accordance with the facts in terms of one of the following classifications:
(a)
Mammoth size.
Mammoth size means walnuts of which not over 12 percent, by count, pass through a round opening
96/64
inches in diameter;
(b)
Jumbo size.
Jumbo size means walnuts of which not over 12 percent, by count, pass through a round opening
80/64
inches in diameter;
(c)
Large size.
Large size means walnuts of which not over 12 percent, by count, pass through a round opening
77/64
inches in diameter; except that for walnuts of the Eureka variety and type, such limiting dimension as to diameter shall be
76/64
inches;
(d)
Medium size.
Medium size means walnuts of which at least 88 percent, by count, pass through a round opening
77/64
inches in diameter, and of which not over 12 percent, by count, pass through a round opening
73/64
inches in diameter;
(e)
Standard size.
Standard size means walnuts of which not over 12 percent, by count, pass through a round opening
73/64
inches in diameter;
(f)
Baby size.
Baby size means walnuts of which at least 88 percent, by count, pass through a round opening
74/64
inches in diameter, and of which not over 10 percent, by count, pass through a round opening
60/64
inch in diameter; and,
(g)
Minimum diameter, or minimum and maximum diameter.
In lieu of one of the foregoing classifications, size of walnuts may be specified in terms of minimum diameter, or minimum and maximum diameter:
Provided,
That not more than 12 percent, by count, pass through a round hole of the specified minimum diameter, and at least 88 percent, by count, pass through a round hole of any specified maximum diameter.

# Variety or Type Specifications
§ 51.2953
Variety or type specifications.
The variety or type of any lot, of walnuts in the shell may be specified in accordance with the facts as follows:
(a) If the lot is of one named variety, that variety name may be specified,
Provided,
That not over 10 percent, by count, of the walnuts in the lot are of another variety or type than that specified; and,
(b) If the lot is a mixture of two or more distinct varieties or types it may be specified as “Mixed Varieties”.

# Tolerances for Grade Defects
§ 51.2954
Tolerances for grade defects.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances shall be permitted for nuts which fail to meet the requirements of the respective grades as indicated. Terms in quotation marks refer to color classifications illustrated on the color chart.
Tolerances for Grade Defects
Grade
External (shell) defects
Internal (kernel) defects
Kernel color based on USDA Walnut Color Chart
Kernel color based on red
U.S. No. 1
10%, by count, for splits. 5%, by count, for other shell defects, including not more than 3% seriously damaged
10% total, by count, including not more than 6% which are damaged by mold or insects or seriously damaged by other means, of which not more than
5/6
or 5% may be damaged by insects, but no part of any tolerance shall be allowed for walnuts containing live insects
No tolerance to reduce the required 70% of “light amber” kernels or the required 40% of “light” kernels or any larger percentage of “light amber” or “light” kernels specified
U.S. No. 2
10%, by count, for splits. 10%, by count, for other shell defects, including not more than 5% serious damage by adhering hulls
15% total, by count, including not more than 8% which are damaged by mold or insects or seriously damaged by other means, of which not more than 5/8 or 5% may be damaged by insects, but no part of any tolerance shall be allowed for walnuts containing live insects
No tolerance to reduce the required 60% or any specified larger percentage of “light amber” kernels, or any specified percentage of “light” kernels
U.S. No. 3
Same as above tolerance for U.S. No. 2
Same as above tolerance for U.S. No. 2
No tolerance to reduce any percentage of “light amber” or “light” kernel specified
[41 FR 44187, Oct. 7, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 82 FR 39658, Aug. 22, 2017]

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.2955
Application of tolerances.
The tolerances provided in these standards are on a lot basis, and they shall be applied to a composite sample representative of the lot. However, any identifiable container or group of containers in which the walnuts are obviously of a quality materially different from that in the majority of the containers shall be considered as a separate lot, and shall be sampled separately.

# Definitions
§ 51.2956
Practically clean.
Practically clean
means that, from the viewpoint of general appearance, the walnuts are practically free from adhering dirt or other foreign matter, and that individual walnuts are not damaged by such means. A slightly chalky deposit on the shell is characteristic of many bleached nuts and shall not be considered as dirt or foreign matter.
§ 51.2957
Bright.
Bright
means a fairly light, attractive appearance. A slight chalky deposit on the shell shall not be considered as affecting brightness.
§ 51.2958
Splits.
Splits
means walnuts with the seam opened completely around the nut so that the two halves of the shell are held together only by the kernel.
§ 51.2959
Injury by discoloration.
Injury by discoloration
means that the color of the affected portion of the shell objectionably contrasts with the color of the rest of the shell of the individual nut.
§ 51.2960
Damage.
Damage
means any specific defect mentioned in this section; or any equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects which materially detracts from the appearance or the edible or shipping quality of the individual walnut or the lot as a whole. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage:
(a) Broken shells when the area from which a portion of the shell is missing is greater than the area of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter; or when the two halves of the shell have become completely broken apart and separated from each other;
(b) Perforated shells when the area affected aggregates more than that of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter. The term “perforated shells” means imperfectly developed areas on the shell resembling abrasions and usually including small holes penetrating the shell wall;
(c) Adhering hulls when affecting more than 5 percent of the shell surface;
(d) Discoloration (or stain) which covers, in the aggregate, one-fifth or more of the surface of the shell of an individual nut, and which is brown, reddish brown, gray, or other color in pronounced contrast with the color of the rest of the shell or the majority of shells in the lot, or darker discoloration covering a smaller area if the appearance is equally objectionable;
(e) Mold when attached to the kernel and conspicuous; or when inconspicuous white or gray mold affects an
aggregate area larger than one square centimeter or one-eighth of the entire surface of the kernel, whichever is the lesser area;
(f) Shriveling when more than 5 percent of the surface of the kernel, including both halves, is severely shriveled, or a greater area is affected by lesser degrees of shriveling producing an equally objectionable appearance. Kernels which are thin in cross section but which are otherwise normally developed shall not be considered as damaged; and,
(g) Insects when an insect or insect fragment, web or frass is present inside the shell, or the kernel shows distinct evidence of insect feeding.
§ 51.2961
Well dried.
Well dried
means that the kernel is firm and crisp, not pliable or leathery.
§ 51.2962
Decay.
Decay
means that any portion of the kernel is decomposed.
§ 51.2963
Dark discoloration.
Dark discoloration
means that the color of the skin of the kernel is darker than “amber”. (See color chart.)
§ 51.2964
Rancidity.
Rancidity
means the stage of deterioration in which the kernel has developed a rancid flavor. Rancidity should not be confused with a slightly astringent flavor of the pellicle (skin) or with staleness, the stage at which the flavor is flat but not distasteful.
§ 51.2965
Fairly clean.
Fairly clean
means that, from the viewpoint of general appearance, the lot is not seriously damaged by adhering dirt or other foreign matter, and that individual walnuts are not coated or caked with dirt or foreign matter. Both the amount of surface affected and the color of the dirt shall be taken into consideration.
§ 51.2966
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any specific defect mentioned in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or shipping quality of the walnut. The following specific defects shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Discoloration (or stain) which covers, in the aggregate, one-third or more of the surface of the shell of an individual nut and which is brown, reddish brown, gray, or other color in pronounced contrast with the color of the rest of the shell or the majority of shells in the lot, or darker discoloration covering a smaller area if the appearance is equally objectionable;
(b) Perforated shells when the area affected aggregates more than that of a circle three-eighths of an inch in diameter. The term “perforated shells” means imperfectly developed areas on the shell resembling abrasions and usually including small holes penetrating the shell wall;
(c) Adhering hulls when affecting more than one-eighth of the shell surface in the aggregate;
(d) Shriveling when both halves of the kernel are affected by severe shriveling over an area totaling more than one-eighth of the surface; or when both halves are affected over a greater area by lesser degrees of shriveling producing an equally objectionable appearance. When one of the halves of the kernel shows no shriveling, the kernel shall not be considered seriously damaged unless the other half shows shriveling to the extent that over 50 percent of its surface is severely shriveled, or a greater area is affected by lesser degrees of shriveling producing an equally objectionable appearance. Kernels which are thin in cross section, but which are otherwise normally developed shall not be considered as damaged;
(e) Rancidity or decay; and,
(f) Uncured kernels which are wet, rubbery and “green”.

# Subpart HH—United States Standards for Florida Avocados

# Source:
22 FR 6205, Aug. 3, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Grades
§ 51.3050
U.S. No. 1.
“U.S. No. 1” consists of avocados of similar varietal characteristics which are mature but not overripe, well formed, clean, well colored, well trimmed and which are free from decay, anthracnose, and freezing injury and are free from damage caused by bruises, cuts or other skin breaks, pulled stems, russeting or similar discoloration, scars or scab, sunburn, sunscald or sprayburn, cercospora spot, other disease, insects, or mechanical or other means.
(a)
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, not more than a total of 10 percent, by count, of the avocados in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of this grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this amount, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for avocados affected by decay or anthracnose, including therein not more than 1 percent for avocados affected by decay. (See §§ 51.3055 and 51.3056.)
§ 51.3051
U.S. Combination.
“U.S. Combination” consists of a combination of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 avocados:
Provided,
That at least 60 percent, by count, of the avocados in each container meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 1 grade.
(a)
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, not more than a total of 10 percent, by count, of the avocados in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this amount, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for avocados affected by decay or seriously damaged by anthracnose, including therein not more than 1 percent for avocados affected by decay. No part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce for the lot as a whole the percentage of U.S. No. 1 fruit required or specified in the combination, but individual containers may have not more than 10 percent less than the percentage of U.S. No. 1 fruit required or specified. (See §§ 51.3055 and 51.3056.)
§ 51.3052
U.S. No. 2.
“U.S. No. 2” consists of avocados of similar varietal characteristics which are mature but not overripe, fairly well formed, clean, fairly well colored, well trimmed and which are free from decay and freezing injury and are free from serious damage caused by anthracnose, bruises, cuts or other skin breaks, pulled stems, russeting or similar discoloration, scars or scab, sunburn, sunscald or sprayburn, cercospora spot, other disease, insects, or mechanical or other means.
(a)
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, not more than a total of 10 percent, by count, of the avocados in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of this grade:
Provided,
That not more than one-half of this amount, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for avocados affected by decay or seriously damaged by anthracnose, including therein not more than 1 percent for avocados affected by decay. (See §§ 51.3055 and 51.3056.)
§ 51.3053
U.S. No. 3.
“U.S. No. 3” consists of avocados of similar varietal characteristics which are mature but not overripe, which are not badly misshapen, and which are free from decay and are free from serious damage caused by anthracnose and are free from very serious damage caused by freezing injury, bruises, cuts or other skin breaks, pulled stems, russeting or similar discoloration, scars or scab, sunburn, sunscald or sprayburn, cercospora spot, other disease, insects, dirt or mechanical or other means.
(a)
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, not more than a total of 10 percent, by count, of the avocados in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of this grade, including therein not more than 2 percent for avocados affected by decay. (See §§ 51.3055 and 51.3056.)

# Unclassified
§ 51.3054
Unclassified.
“Unclassified” consists of avocados which have not been classified in accordance with any of the foregoing
grades. The term “unclassified” is not a grade within the meaning of these standards, but is provided as a designation to show that no grade has been applied to the lot.

# Standard Pack
§ 51.3055
Standard pack.
(a) The avocados shall be packed in accordance with good commercial practice and the pack shall be at least fairly tight. The weight of the smallest fruit in any container shall be not less than 75 percent of the weight of the largest fruit in the container. Size of the avocados may be specified by count.
(b) In order to allow for variations incident to proper sizing and packing, not more than 5 percent, by count, of the avocados in any container may weigh less than 75 percent of the weight of the largest fruit:
Provided,
That no fruit in any container shall weigh less than 60 percent of the weight of the largest fruit in the container. In addition, not more than 5 percent of the containers in any lot may fail to meet the requirement as to tightness of pack.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.3056
Application of tolerances.
(a) The contents of individual packages in the lot, based on sample inspection, are subject to the following limitations:
Provided,
That the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade:
(1) For packages which contain more than 20 avocados and a tolerance of 10 percent or more is provided, individual packages in any lot shall have not more than one and one-half times the tolerance specified. For packages which contain more than 20 avocados and a tolerance of less than 10 percent is provided, individual packages in any lot shall have not more than double the tolerance specified, except that at least one defective and one off-size specimen may be permitted in any package; and,
(2) For packages which contain 20 avocados or less, individual packages shall have not more than double the tolerance specified, except that at least one defective and one off-size specimen may be permitted in any package.

# Definitions
§ 51.3057
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the avocados in any container are similar in shape, texture, and color of skin and flesh.
§ 51.3058
Mature.
Mature
means that the avocado has reached a stage of growth which will insure a proper completion of the ripening process.
§ 51.3059
Overripe.
Overripe
means that the avocado is dead ripe with flesh soft or discolored and past commercial use.
§ 51.3060
Well formed.
Well formed
means that the avocado has the normal shape characteristic of the variety.
§ 51.3061
Clean.
Clean
means that the avocado is practically free from dirt, staining or other foreign material.
§ 51.3062
Well colored.
Well colored
means that the avocado has the color characteristic of the variety.
§ 51.3063
Well trimmed.
Well trimmed
means that the stem, when present, is cut off fairly smoothly at a point not more than one-fourth inch beyond the shoulder of the avocado.
§ 51.3064
Damage.
Damage
means any defect which materially affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the individual fruit, or the general appearance of the avocados in the container. Any one of the following defects, or any combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as damage:
(a) Cuts or other skin breaks when not healed and penetrating beneath the
epidermis or the aggregate area exceeds that of a rectangle 1 inch in length and one-eighth inch in width, or when healed and the appearance is materially affected;
(b) Pulled stems when the exposed stem cavity is excessively deep, or when skin surrounding the stem cavity is more than slightly torn;
(c) Russeting or similar discoloration when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown surface discoloration aggregating 10 percent of the fruit surface;
(d) Scars or scab when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown superficial, fairly smooth scars aggregating 10 percent of the fruit surface;
(e) Sunburn when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has greenish-yellow colored sunburn aggregating 10 percent of the fruit surface; and,
(f) Sunscald or sprayburn when not well healed, or when soft, or when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown, superficial scars aggregating 10 percent of the fruit surface.
§ 51.3065
Fairly well formed.
Fairly well formed
means that the avocado may be slightly abnormal in shape but not to the extent that the appearance is seriously affected.
§ 51.3066
Fairly well colored.
Fairly well colored
means that the avocado shows a shade of color which is fairly characteristic of the variety.
§ 51.3067
Serious damage.
Serious damage
means any defect which seriously affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the individual fruit, or the general appearance of the avocados in the container. Any one of the following defects, or any combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Anthracnose when any spot exceeds the area of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter, or when more than 3 spots each of which exceeds the area of a circle three-sixteenths inch in diameter;
(b) Cuts or other skin breaks when not healed and penetrating into the flesh of the fruit, or the aggregate area exceeds that of a rectangle 1 inch in length and one-fourth inch in width, or when healed and the appearance is seriously affected;
(c) Pulled stems when the skin surrounding the exposed stem cavity is torn more than an aggregate area of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter, or when the flesh is torn;
(d) Russeting or similar discoloration when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown surface discoloration aggregating 25 percent of the fruit surface;
(e) Scars or scab when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown superficial fairly smooth scars aggregating 25 percent of the fruit surface;
(f) Sunburn when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has greenish-yellow colored sunburn aggregating 25 percent of the fruit surface;
(g) Sunscald or sprayburn when not well healed, or when soft, or when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown superficial, fairly smooth scars aggregating 25 percent of the fruit surface; and
(h) Cercospora spot when any spot exceeds the area of a circle one-fourth inch in diameter, or when more than 3 spots each of which exceeds the area of a circle three-sixteenths inch in diameter, or when the aggregate area of all spots exceeds the area of a circle 1 inch in diameter.
§ 51.3068
Badly misshapen.
Badly misshapen
means that the avocado is so badly curved, constricted, pointed or otherwise deformed that the appearance is very seriously affected.
§ 51.3069
Very serious damage.
Very serious damage
means any defect which very seriously affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping
quality of the avocado. Any one of the following defects, or any combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as very serious damage:
(a) Cuts or other skin breaks when not healed and penetrating into the flesh of the fruit, or any skin break very seriously affecting the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality;
(b) Pulled stems when the skin surrounding the exposed stem cavity is torn more than an aggregate area of a circle one-half inch in diameter, or when the flesh is torn;
(c) Russeting or similar discoloration when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown surface discoloration aggregating 50 percent of the fruit surface;
(d) Scars or scab when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown superficial, fairly smooth scars aggregating 50 percent of the fruit surface;
(e) Sunburn when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has greenish-yellow colored sunburn aggregating 50 percent of the fruit surface; and,
(f) Sunscald or sprayburn when not well healed, or when the appearance of the avocado is affected to a greater extent than that of an avocado which has light brown superficial, fairly smooth scars aggregating 50 percent of the fruit surface.

# Subpart II—United States Standards for Grades of Bermuda-Granex-Grano Type Onions

# Source:
60 FR 46980, Sept. 8, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Grades
§ 51.3195
U.S. No. 1.
U.S. No. 1
consists of onions which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Similar varietal characteristics, except color when designated as a specialty or mixed pack;
(2) Mature;
(3) Fairly firm; and,
(4) Fairly well shaped.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Wet sunscald;
(3) Doubles; and,
(4) Bottlenecks.
(c) Free from damage caused by:
(1) Seedstems;
(2) Splits;
(3) Dry sunken areas;
(4) Sunburn;
(5) Sprouting;
(6) Staining;
(7) Dirt or foreign material;
(8) Mechanical;
(9) Tops;
(10) Roots;
(11) Translucent scales;
(12) Watery scales;
(13) Moisture;
(14) Disease;
(15) Insects; and,
(16) Other means.
(d) For size and tolerances see §§ 51.3198 and 51.3199.
[60 FR 46980, Sept. 8, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 63294, Oct. 23, 2014]
§ 51.3196
U.S. Combination.
U.S. Combination
consists of a combination of U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 onions:
Provided,
That at least 50 percent, by weight, of the onions in each lot meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade. (See §§ 51.3198 and 51.3199.)
§ 51.3197
U.S. No. 2.
U.S. No. 2
consists of onions which meet the following requirements:
(a) Basic requirements:
(1) Similar varietal characteristics, except color when designated as a specialty or mixed pack;
(2) Not soft or spongy.
(b) Free from:
(1) Decay;
(2) Wet sunscald; and,
(3) Bottlenecks.
(c) Free from serious damage caused by:
(1) Seedstems;
(2) Dry sunken areas;
(3) Sprouting;
(4) Staining;
(5) Dirt or other foreign material;
(6) Mechanical;
(7) Watery scales;
(8) Insects;
(9) Disease; and,
(10) Other means.
(d) For size and tolerances see §§ 51.3198 and 51.3199.
[60 FR 46980, Sept. 8, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 63295, Oct. 23, 2014]

# Size Classifications
§ 51.3198
Size classifications.
Size shall be specified in connection with the grade in terms of minimum diameter, range in diameter, minimum diameter with a percentage of a certain size or larger, or in accordance with one of the size classifications listed below:
Provided,
that unless otherwise specified, onions shall not be less than 1
1/2
inches in diameter, with 60 percent or more 2 inches or larger in diameter.
Size designation
Minimum diameter
Inches
Millimeters
Maximum diameter
Inches
Millimeters
Small
1
25.4
2
1/4
57.2
Repacker/Prepacker
1
1
3/4
44.5
3
76.2
Medium
2
50.8
3
1/4
82.6
Large or Jumbo
3
76.2
(
2
)
Colossal
3
3/4
95.3
(
2
)
1
In addition to the sizes specified, a lot of onions designated as Repacker or Prepacker shall contain at least 60 percent or more 2 inches or larger in diameter.
2
No requirement.

# Tolerances
§ 51.3199
Tolerances.
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades the following tolerances, by weight, are provided as specified:
(a) For defects:
(1)
U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 grades.
Not more than 10 percent of the onions in a lot may fail to meet the requirements of these grades, but not more than one-fifth of this tolerance, or 2 percent, may be allowed for onions which are affected by decay or wet sunscald.
(2)
U.S. Combination grade.
When applying the foregoing tolerances to this grade no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce, for the lot as a whole, the 50 percent of onions of the U.S. No. 1 grade, but individual containers shall have not less than 40 percent of the U.S. No. 1 grade.
(b) For size:
(1) Not more than 5 percent of the onions in a lot may be smaller than the minimum diameter specified. In addition, not more than 10 percent of the onions in a lot may be larger than the maximum diameter specified.
(2) When a percentage of the onions is specified to be a certain size and larger, individual packages containing more than 10 pounds may have not less than one-half of the percentage specified:
Provided,
that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.

# Samples for Grade and Size Determination
§ 51.3200
Samples for grade and size determination.
Individual samples shall consist of at least 20 pounds for onions packed to meet larger than 2
1/4
inches maximum diameter. When individual packages contain 20 pounds or more and the onions are packed for Large or Jumbo size or larger the package shall be the sample. When individual packages contain less than 20 pounds, a sufficient number of adjoining packages are opened to provide at least a 20 pound sample, except that for onions packed to meet 2
1/4
inches maximum diameter or smaller, the sample may consist of either 20 pounds or the individual package.

# Application of Tolerances
§ 51.3201
Application of tolerances.
Individual samples are subject to the following limitations:
(a) Samples which contain more than 20 pounds shall have not more than one and one half times a specified tolerance
of 10 percent or more, and not more than double a specified tolerance of less than 10 percent, except that at least one defective and one off-size onion may be permitted in any sample:
Provided,
that en-route or at destination when onions in containers of 50 pounds or more are packed to a minimum size of 3 inches or larger not more than three onions or more than 4 percent (whichever is the larger amount) may be affected by decay or wet sunscald:
And provided further,
that the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade; and,
(b) Samples which contain 20 pounds or less shall have not more than double the tolerance specified, except that at least one defective and one off-size onion may be permitted in any sample:
Provided,
that the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade.

# Definitions
§ 51.3202
Similar varietal characteristics.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the onions in any container are similar in color, shape and character of growth.
§ 51.3203
Mature.
Mature
means that the onion is fairly well cured, and at least fairly firm.
§ 51.3204
Fairly firm.
Fairly firm
means that the onion may yield slightly to moderate pressure but is not appreciably soft or spongy.
§ 51.3205
Fairly well shaped.
Fairly well shaped
means that the onion shows the characteristic shape, not appreciably three-, four- or five-sided, thick necked or badly pinched.
§ 51.3206
Wet sunscald.
Wet sunscald
means any sunscald which is soft, mushy, sticky or wet.
§ 51.3207
Doubles.
Doubles
means onions which have developed more than one distinct bulb joined only at the base.
§ 51.3208
Bottlenecks.
Bottlenecks
means onions which have abnormally thick necks with only fairly well developed bulbs.
§ 51.3209
Damage.
Damage
unless otherwise specifically defined in this section, means any defect which materially affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the onions. Any one of the following defects, or combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as damage:
(a) Seedstems which are tough or woody, or which are more than
1/4
inch in diameter;
(b) Splits when well cured onions are not practically covered by an outer scale, or when fairly well cured onions are not completely covered by one outer scale;
(c) Dry sunken areas when the affected areas exceed the equivalent to that of a circle
1/2
inch in diameter on an onion 2
3/4
inches in diameter which does not have the outer papery scale covering the affected areas or when the affected areas exceed the equivalent to that of a circle
3/4
inch in diameter on an onion 2
3/4
inches in diameter which has the outer papery scale covering the affected areas. Correspondingly lesser or greater areas are allowed on smaller or larger onions;
(d) Sunburn when dark green in color and affecting an area equivalent to that of a circle 1 inch in diameter on an onion 2
3/4
inches in diameter or correspondingly smaller or larger areas on smaller or larger onions, or when medium to light green in color and affecting more than 10 percent of the surface of the onion;
(e) Sprouting when any sprout is visible, or when concealed within the neck scales and are more than
3/4
inch in length on an onion 2 inches or larger in diameter, or proportionately shorter on smaller onions;
(f) Staining, dirt or other foreign material when more than 20 percent of the onions in a yellow, brown or red lot, or more than 15 percent of the onions in a white lot are appreciably stained. Onions with adhering dirt or other foreign matter shall be judged on the same basis as stained onions;
(g) Mechanical when any cut extends deeper than one fleshy scale, or when any bruise breaks a fleshy scale;
(h) Tops when more than 30 percent of the onions in a lot have tops 3 inches or more in length;
(i) New roots when most roots on an individual onion have grown to a length of 1 inch or more;
(j) Dry roots when practically all roots are 2 inches or more in length;
(k) Translucent scales when more than the equivalent of two entire outer fleshy scales have a watersoaked condition; and,
(l) Watery scales when more than the equivalent of the entire outer fleshy scale is affected by an off-color, watersoaked condition. The off-color must be of some shade of brown or yellow.
§ 51.3210
Serious damage.
Serious damage
unless otherwise specifically defined in this section, means any defect which seriously affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the onions. Any one of the following defects, or any combination of defects the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as serious damage:
(a) Seedstems when more than
1/2
inch in diameter;
(b) Dry sunken areas when extending deeper than one fleshy scale, or when affecting an area equivalent to that of a circle 1 inch in diameter on an onion 2
3/4
inches in diameter, or correspondingly lesser or greater areas on smaller or larger onions;
(c) Sprouting when any visible sprout is more than
1/2
in length;
(d) Staining, dirt or foreign material when more than 25 percent of the onions in any lot are badly stained. Onions with adhering dirt or other foreign matter shall be judged on the same basis as stained onions;
(e) Mechanical when any cut extends deeper than two fleshy scales, or when cuts seriously damage the appearance of the onion; and,
(f) Watery scales when more than the equivalent of two entire outer fleshy scales are affected by an off-colored, watersoaked condition. The off-color must be of some shade of brown or yellow.
§ 51.3211
Diameter.
Diameter
means the greatest dimension of the onion at right angles to a line running from the stem to the root.

# Metric Conversion Table
§ 51.3212
Metric conversion table.
Inches
Millimeters (mm)
1/8
3.2
1/4
6.4
3/8
9.5
1/2
12.7
5/8
15.9
3/4
19.1
7/8
22.2
1
25.4
1
1/4
31.8
1
1/2
38.1
1
3/4
44.5
2
50.8
2
1/2
63.5
2
3/4
69.9
3
76.2
3
1/2
88.9
4
101.6

# Subpart JJ—United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes for Processing

# Source:
48 FR 10802, Mar. 15, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.3410
Grades.
(a) “U.S. No. 1 Processing” consists of potatoes which meet the following requirements:
(1) Basic requirements:
(i) Similar varietal characteristics;
(ii) Moderately firm; and,
(iii) Fairly well shaped.
(2) Free from:
(i) Freezing or freezing injury;
(ii) Blackheart;
(iii) Late Blight Tuber Rot;
(iv) Southern Bacterial Wilt;
(v) Bacterial Ring Rot;
(vi) Insects, worms or larvae;
(vii) Soft rot and wet breakdown; and,
(viii) Loose sprouts, dirt and foreign material.
(3) Free from damage by any cause.
(4)
Size.
Unless otherwise specified, individual potatoes shall be not less than 2 inches in diameter or 4 ounces
in weight. Percentage(s) of a larger size(s) and/or a maximum size may be specified.
(b) “U.S. No. 2 Processing” consists of potatoes or usable pieces of potatoes which meet the following requirements:
(1) Basic requirements:
(i) Similar varietal characteristics;
(ii) Moderately firm; and,
(iii) Not seriously misshapen.
(2) Free from:
(i) Freezing or freezing injury;
(ii) Blackheart;
(iii) Late Blight Tuber Rot;
(iv) Southern Bacterial Wilt;
(v) Bacterial Ring Rot;
(vi) Insects, worms or larvae;
(vii) Soft rot and wet breakdown; and,
(viii) Loose sprouts, dirt and foreign material.
(3) Free from serious damage by any cause.
(4)
Size.
Unless otherwise specified, whole potatoes shall be not less than 1
1/2
inches in diameter, or usable pieces shall be not less than 4 ounces in weight. Percentage(s) of a larger size(s) and/or maximum size may be specified.
§ 51.3411
Usable piece.
“Usable Piece” means that portion of the potato remaining after trimming, or as it occurs in the sample:
(a) Not have any unusable material;
(b) Unless otherwise specified, weigh at least 4 ounces; and,
(c) Must have at least 50% of peel remaining after trimming.
§ 51.3412
Unusable material.
“Unusable Material” consists of defective portions of potatoes, and potatoes which are frozen, affected by freezing injury, soft rot, wet breakdown, insects, worms, larvae, Blackheart, Late Blight Tuber Rot, Southern Bacterial Wilt, Bacterial Ring Rot, or which are seriously damaged by internal defects.
§ 51.3413
Size.
(a) The minimum size, maximum size or range in size may be specified in connection with the grade in terms of diameter or weight.
(b) Diameter means the greatest dimension in terms of inches or fractions of an inch measured at right angles to the longitudinal axis, without regard to the position of the stem-end.
(c) Weight means the minimum or maximum weight measured in terms of whole ounces. When a maximum weight is specified, the potato shall not be considered as oversize until it weighs the next higher ounce.
§ 51.3414
Application of standards.
In the application of these standards to determine the percentages of potatoes in any lot which meet the requirements of the respective grades or size categories, tolerances do not apply. However, for lots which are graded or pre-sorted for size or quality, offered for inspection and required to meet one of the grades, the following tolerances, by weight, are provided:
(a) For defects:
(1)
U.S. No. 1 Processing.
10 percent for potatoes which fail to meet the requirements of this grade including not more than one-half of this tolerance, or 5 percent, for serious damage by any means, including therein not more than 2 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown.
(2)
U.S. No. 2 Processing.
10 percent for potatoes which fail to meet the requirements of this grade including not more than one-half of this tolerance, or 5 percent, for potatoes which are seriously damaged by internal defects occurring entirely within the vascular ring, including therein not more than 2 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown.
(b) For loose sprouts, dirt and foreign material: 2 percent.
(c) For off-size:
(1)
Undersize.
3 percent when the minimum size specified is less than 2
1/4
inches in diameter or less than 5 ounces in weight; and 5 percent when the minimum size specified is 2
1/4
inches or more in diameter or 5 ounces or more in weight.
(2)
Oversize.
10 percent.
§ 51.3415
Definitions.
Similar varietal characteristics
means that the potatoes in any lot have the same general shape, color, and character of skin and color of flesh.
Fairly well shaped
means that the potato is not materially pointed, dumbbell-shaped, or otherwise deformed.
2
2
USDA Visual Aid, POT-L 1 Jan 81. This publication may be examined in the Fruit and Vegetable Division, Fresh Products Branch, AMS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, South Building, Washington, DC 20250, or any field office of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Inspection Service. Copies of this visual aid may be purchased from the John Henry Company, P.O. Box 17099, Lansing, MI 48901 or United Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Association, N. Washington at Madison, Alexandria, VA 22314.
Moderately firm
means that the potato is not seriously shriveled or flabbly.
2
Not seriously misshapen
means that the potato is not seriously deformed and causing more than 10% waste when determining the non-peelable area directly due to shape.
Soft rot or wet breakdown
means any soft, mushy or leaky condition of the tissue such as Leak, slimy soft rot, wet type Fusarium Tuber Rot, or wet breakdown following freezing injury or heat injury.
Loose sprouts, dirt and foreign material
means unattached sprouts or sprouts that become detached during the grading of the sample, stems, vines, adhering dirt, loose dirt, stones, trash and other extraneous material.
Damage
means any defect listed in § 51.3416, or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 5 percent of the total weight of the potato.
Serious Damage
means any defect listed in § 51.3416, or an equally objectionable variation of any of these defects, any other defect, or any combination of defects, which cannot be removed without a loss of more than 10 percent of the total weight of the potato.
External Defects
are defects which can be detected externally. Cutting may be required to determine the extent of the injury.
Internal Defects
are defects which cannot be detected without cutting the potato.
§ 51.3416
Classification of defects.
External Defects
Defects
Maximum allowed for U.S. No. 1 processing
Maximum allowed for U.S. No. 2 processing
Air cracks
5% waste
10% waste.
Blackleg
5% waste
10% waste.
Bruises
5% waste
10% waste
Cuts
Smooth, not more than 10% of surface
Smooth, not more than
1/3
of surface.
Enlarged lenticels, discolored or sunken
5% waste
10% waste.
Flea Beetle
5% waste
10% waste
Folded end
5% waste
10% waste.
Fusarium tuber rot
5% waste
10% waste.
Grass, wireworm
5% waste
10% waste.
Greening, light
5% waste
10% waste.
Growth cracks
See Footnote No. 2
10% waste.
Grub
5% waste
10% waste.
Ingrown sprouts
5% waste
10% waste.
Nematodes
5% waste
10% waste.
Rhizoctonia, solid or thick mounded
Not more than 10% of surface
Not more than 25% of surface.
Rodent, bird damage
5% waste
10% waste.
Scab, pitted
5% waste
10% waste.
Scab, russet
25% of surface or 5% waste
50% of surface or 10% waste.
Scab, surface
25% of surface or 5% waste
50% of surface or 10% waste.
Scab, surface (elephant hide).
10% of surface or 5% waste
25% of surface or 10% waste.
Second growth
5% waste
10% waste.
Scaling, surface cracks—when cracked, thick and has depth
10% of surface or 5% waste
25% of surface or 10% waste.
Sunburn
5% waste
10% waste.
Sunken discolored areas
5% waste
10% waste.
Internal Defects
Defects
Maximum allowed for U.S. No. 1 processing
Maximum allowed for U.S. No. 2 processing
Occurring outside of or not entirely confined to the vascular ring
Internal Black Spot, Internal Discoloration, Vascular Browning, Fusarium Wilt, Net Necrosis, Other Necrosis, Stem End Browning
5% waste
10% waste.
Occurring entirely within the vascular ring
Hollow Heart or Hollow Heart with Discoloration
Area affected not to exceed that of a circle
7/8
inch in diameter in a 10 ounce potato.
1
Area affected not to exceed that of a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter in a 10 ounce potato.
1
Light Brown Discoloration (Brown Center)
Area affected not to exceed that of a circle
7/8
inch in diameter in a 10 ounce potato.
1
Area affected not to exceed that of a circle 1
1/4
inches in diameter in a 10 ounce potato.
1
Internal Brown Spot and similar discoloration (Heat Necrosis)
Not more than the equivalent of 3 scattered spots
1/8
inch in diameter in a potato 6 ounces in weight or 2
1/2
inches in diameter, or correspondingly lesser or greater number of spots in smaller or larger potatoes
Not more than the equivalent of 6 scattered spots
1/8
inch in diameter in a potato 6 ounces in weight or 2
1/2
inches in diameter or correspondingly lesser or greater number of spots in smaller or larger potatoes.
1
Note: Or correspondingly lesser or greater areas in smaller or larger potatoes.
§ 51.3417
Optional test for specific gravity.
Tests to determine specific gravity shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
(a) The potatoes used for such determinations shall be:
(1) Taken at random from a composite sample drawn from containers representative of the lot.
(2) A comparable sample from a bulk load or storage bin.
(3) From a portion of the divided sample initially drawn or submitted for determination of grade or contract compliance.
(4) Representative of the lot with respect to size and quality.
The specific gravity for any lot of potatoes shall be the average of at least 3 corrected readings on separate tests from the composite sample. Specific gravity may also be determined, if requested, in accordance with size classifications or weighted value in proportion to size and/or grade separations in the lot.
(b) Specific gravity shall be determined by either;
(1) Calculation from the weights of the sample in air and in water made with USDA approved equipment. The reading obtained from each test shall be corrected for temperature variations using Table I.
(2) A hydrometer specifically designed for determining the specific gravity of potatoes.
3
3
The hydrometer is available from the Potato Chip/Snack Food Association, Crystal Square-3, Suite 903, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202.
The pulp temperature of the potatoes and the temperature of water shall be recorded immediately before testing and the specific gravity reading corrected using Table I.
Table I—Correction Factors for Specific Gravity of Potatoes
4
[Corrected to zero at 50 °F potato temperature and 50 °F water temperature]
Water temperature (degrees Fahrenheit)
38°
40°
45°
50°
55°
60°
65°
70°
75°
80°
Potato temperature:
38°
−0.0021
−0.0020
−0.0018
−0.0018
−0.0020
−0.0023
−0.0029
−0.0038
−0.0047
−0.0056
40°
−.0017
−.0016
−.0014
−.0014
−.0016
−.0019
−.0025
−.0034
−.0043
−.0052
45°
−.0009
−.0008
−.0008
−.0006
−.0008
−.0011
−.0017
−.0026
−.0035
−.0044
50°
−.0003
−.0002
0000
0000
−.0002
−.0005
−.0011
−.0020
−.0029
−.0038
55°
+.0001
+.0002
+.0004
+.0004
+.0002
−.0001
−.0007
−.0016
−.0025
−.0034
60°
+.0004
+.0005
+.0007
+.0007
+.0005
+.0002
−.0004
−.0013
−.0022
−.0031
65°
+.0005
+.0006
+.0008
+.0008
+.0006
+.0003
−.0003
−.0012
−.0021
−.0030
70°
+.0006
+.0007
+.0009
+.0009
+.0007
+.0004
−.0002
−.0011
−.0020
−.0029
75°
+.0007
+.0008
+.0010
+.0010
+.0008
+.0005
−.0001
−.0010
−.0019
−.0028
80°
+.0008
+.0009
+.0011
+.0011
+.0009
+.0006
0000
−.0009
−.0018
−.0027
85°
+.0009
+.0010
+.0012
+.0012
+.0010
+.0007
+.0001
−.0008
−.0017
−.0026
90°
+.0010
+.0011
+.0013
+.0013
+.0011
+.0008
+.0002
−.0007
−.0016
−.0025
95°
+.0011
+.0012
+.0014
+.0014
+.0012
+.0009
+.0003
−.0006
−.0015
−.0024
100°
+.0012
+.0013
+.0015
+.0015
+.0013
+.0010
+.0004
−.0005
−.0014
−.0023
4
To apply correction factor, change actual specific gravity reading by adding or subtracting the appropriate factor according to the plus or minus sign.
When requested to convert the weight in water of 5000 gram samples used in the weight in air versus weight in water method of specific gravity determinations, the conversion to total solids shall be based on Table II.
Table II—Specific Gravity Conversion Chart for 5,000 Grams of Potatoes
Water weight
Specific gravity
Total solids
300
1.0638
17.2
310
1.0661
17.7
320
1.0684
18.2
322
1.0688
18.3
324
1.0693
18.4
326
1.0697
18.5
328
1.0702
18.6
330
1.0707
18.7
332
1.0711
18.8
334
1.0716
18.9
336
1.0720
19.0
338
1.0725
19.1
340
1.0730
19.2
342
1.0734
19.3
344
1.0739
19.4
346
1.0743
19.5
348
1.0748
19.6
350
1.0753
19.7
352
1.0757
19.8
354
1.0762
19.9
356
1.0766
20.0
358
1.0771
20.1
360
1.0776
20.2
362
1.0780
20.3
364
1.0785
20.4
366
1.0790
20.5
368
1.0794
20.6
370
1.0799
20.7
372
1.0804
20.8
374
1.0808
20.9
376
1.0813
21.0
378
1.0818
21.1
380
1.0822
21.2
382
1.0827
21.3
384
1.0832
21.4
386
1.0836
21.5
388
1.0841
21.6
390
1.0846
21.7
392
1.0851
21.8
394
1.0855
21.9
396
1.0860
22.0
398
1.0865
22.1
400
1.0870
22.2
402
1.0874
22.3
404
1.0879
22.4
406
1.0884
22.5
408
1.0888
22.6
410
1.0893
22.7
412
1.0898
22.8
414
1.0903
22.9
416
1.0908
23.0
418
1.0912
23.1
420
1.0917
23.2
422
1.0922
23.4
424
1.0926
23.5
426
1.0931
23.6
428
1.0936
23.7
430
1.0941
23.8
432
1.0946
23.9
440
1.0965
24.4
450
1.0989
24.9
460
1.1013
25.4
470
1.1040
26.0
Whenever the recorded water weight for an individual reading falls between two sets of numbers as indicated in Table II, the next higher reading shall be used.
§ 51.3418
Optional test for fry color.
Fry color may be determined in accordance with contract specifications by using the Munsell Color Standards for Frozen French Fried Potatoes, Third Edition, 1972, 64-1.
5
Select a minimum of twenty (20) potatoes at random from the official sample. Slice each potato from stem to blossom-end into
1/2
square inch strips. Unless otherwise specified, fry center cut strips in oil for a minimum of 3 minutes at 350 °F or 2
1/2
minutes at 375 °F.
5
Munsell Color Standards for Frozen French Fried Potatoes, Third Edition, 1972, 64-1, may be purchased from the Munsell Color Co., 2441 North Calvert St., Baltimore, MD 21218.
Pt. 52

# PART 52—PROCESSED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES, PROCESSED PRODUCTS THEREOF, AND CERTAIN OTHER PROCESSED FOOD PRODUCTS

# Subpart A—Requirements Governing Inspection and Certification
Sec.
52.1
Administration of regulations.

# Definitions
52.2
Terms defined.
52.3
Designation of official certificates, memoranda, marks, other identifications, and devices for purposes of the Agricultural Marketing Act.

# Inspection Service
52.4
Where inspection service is offered.
52.5
Who may obtain inspection service.
52.6
How to make application.
52.7
Information required in connection with application.
52.8
Filing of application.
52.9
Record of filing time.
52.10
When application may be rejected.
52.11
When application may be withdrawn.
52.12
Disposition of inspected sample.
52.13
Basis of inspection and grade or compliance determination.
52.14
Order of inspection service.
52.15
Postponing inspection service.
52.16
Financial interest of inspector.
52.17
Forms of certificates.
52.18
Issuance of certificates.
52.19
Issuance of corrected certificates.
52.20
Issuance of an inspection report in lieu of an inspection certificate.
52.21
Disposition of inspection certificates.
52.22
Report of inspection results prior to issuance of formal report.

# Appeal Inspection
52.23
When appeal inspection may be requested.
52.24
Where to file for an appeal inspection and information required.
52.25
When an application for an appeal inspection may be withdrawn.
52.26
When appeal inspection may be refused.
52.27
Who shall perform appeal inspection.
52.28
Appeal inspection certificate.

# Licensing of Samplers and Inspectors
52.29
Who may become licensed sampler.
52.30
Application to become a licensed sampler.
52.31
Inspectors.
52.32
Suspension or revocation of license of licensed sampler or licensed inspector.
52.33
Surrender of license.

# Sampling
52.34
How samples are drawn by inspectors or licensed samplers.
52.35
Accessibility for sampling.
52.36
How officially drawn samples are to be identified.
52.37
How official samples are to be identified and shipped.
52.38
Sampling plans and procedures for determining lot compliance.
52.38a
Definitions of terms applicable to statistical sampling.
52.38b
Statistical sampling procedures for on-line inspection by attributes of processed fruits and vegetables.
52.38c
Statistical sampling procedures for lot inspection of processed fruits and vegetables by attributes.
52.39
Issuance of certificate of sampling.
52.40
Identification of lots sampled.

# Fees and Charges
52.41
Payment of fees and charges.
52.42
Schedule of fees.
52.43
Fees to be charged and collected for sampling when performed by a licensed sampler.
52.44
Inspection fees when charges for sampling have been collected.
52.45
Inspection fees when charges for sampling have not been collected.
52.46
Fee for appeal inspection.
52.47
Changing types of service.
52.48
Charges for plant survey and inspection.
52.49
Charges for copies of inspection documents and/or inspection data.
52.50
Travel and other expenses.
52.51
Charges for inspection services on a contract basis.

# Miscellaneous
52.53
Approved identification.
52.54
Debarment of service.
52.55
Political activity.
52.56
Purchase of commodity samples for review.
52.57
Compliance with other laws.
52.58
Identification.
52.59
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.

# Requirements for Plants To Be Approved and for Plants Using Contract In-Plant Inspection Services
52.81
Plant survey.
52.82
Basis of survey and plant inspection.
52.83
Reporting results of the plant survey and inauguration of inspection services.

# Subpart B—United States Standards for Grades of Canned Red Tart Pitted Cherries

# Identity and Grades
52.771
Identity.
52.772
Grades.

# Liquid Media and Brix Measurements
52.773
Liquid media and Brix measurements.

# Fill of Container
52.774
Fill of container.

# Sample Unit Size
52.775
Sample unit size.

# Factors of Quality
52.776
Ascertaining the grade of a sample unit.
52.777
Ascertaining the rating for the factors which are scored.
52.778
Color.
52.779
Freedom from pits.
52.780
Defects.
52.781
Character.

# Allowances for Quality Factors
52.782
Allowances for quality factors.

# Lot Compliance
52.783
Ascertaining the grade of a lot.

# Score Sheet
52.784
Score sheet for canned red tart pitted cherries.

# Subpart C—United States Standards for Grades of Frozen Red Tart Pitted Cherries

# Product Description and Grades
52.801
Product description.
52.802
Grades of frozen red tart pitted cherries.

# Sample Unit Size
52.803
Sample unit size.

# Factors of Quality
52.804
Ascertaining the grade of a sample unit.
52.805
Ascertaining the rating for each factor.
52.806
Color.
52.807
Freedom from pits.
52.808
Freedom from defects.
52.809
Character.

# Allowances for Quality Factors
52.810
Allowances for quality factors.

# Lot Compliance
52.811
Ascertaining the grade of a lot.

# Score Sheet
52.812
Score sheet for frozen red tart pitted cherries.

# Subpart D—United States Standards for Grades of Dates

# Product Description, Styles, and Grades
52.1001
Product description.
52.1002
Styles of dates.
52.1003
Grades of dates.

# Factors of Quality
52.1004
Ascertaining the grade.
52.1005
Ascertaining the rating for the factors which are scored.
52.1006
Color.
52.1007
Uniformity of size.
52.1008
Absence of defects.
52.1009
Character.

# Lot Inspection and Certification
52.1010
Ascertaining the grade of a lot.

# Score Sheet
52.1011
Score sheet for dates.

# Subpart E—United States Standards for Grades of Processed Raisins
52.1841
Product description.
52.1842
Product description of Layer (or Cluster) raisins with seeds.
52.1843
Summary of types (varieties) of processed raisins.
52.1844
Definition of terms.

# Type I—Seedless Raisins
52.1845
Sizes of seedless raisins.
52.1846
Grades of seedless raisins.

# Type II—Golden Seedless Raisins
52.1847
Colors of golden seedless raisins.
52.1848
Sizes of golden seedless raisins.
52.1849
Grades of golden seedless raisins.

# Type III—Raisins With Seeds
52.1850
Sizes of raisins with seeds—except layer or cluster.
52.1851
Sizes of raisins with seeds—layer or cluster.
52.1852
Grades of raisins with seeds—except layer or cluster.
52.1853
Grades of raisins with seeds—layer or cluster.

# Type IV—Sultana Raisins
52.1854
Sizes of Sultana raisins.
52.1855
Grades of Sultana raisins.

# Type V—Zante Currant Raisins
52.1856
Sizes of zante currant raisins.
52.1857
Grades of zante currant raisins.

# Type VI—Mixed Type of Raisins
52.1858
Grades of mixed types or varieties of raisins.

# Subpart F—United States Standards for Grades of Dried Prunes

# Product Description, Varietal Types, Sizes, Grades
52.3181
Product description.
52.3182
Varietal types of dried prunes.
52.3183a
Styles of dried prunes.
52.3183b
Count-sizes of whole unpitted dried prunes.
52.3184
Grades of dried prunes.

# Moisture, Uniformity of Size, Defects
52.3185
Moisture limits.
52.3186
Definitions for uniformity of size.
52.3187
Definitions and explanations of defects.

# Work Sheet
52.3188
Work sheet for dried prunes.

# Subpart G—United States Standards for Grades of Canned Ripe Olives

# Product Description, Types, Styles, and Grades
52.3751
Product description.
52.3752
Types of canned ripe olives.
52.3753
Styles of canned ripe olives.
52.3754
Size designations for whole and pitted styles.
52.3755
Minimum drained weights.
52.3756
Grades of canned ripe olives.
52.3757
Standard sample unit size.
52.3758
Determining the grade of a sample unit.
52.3759
Determining the rating for the factors which are scored.
52.3760
Color.
52.3761
Defects.
52.3762
Character.
52.3763
Determining the grade of a lot.
52.3764
Score sheet.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1621-1627.

# Subpart A—Requirements Governing Inspection and Certification

# Source:
22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.
§ 52.1
Administration of regulations.
(a) The Administrator, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture is charged with the administration of the regulations in this part except that he may delegate any or all of such functions to any officer or employee of the Agricultural Marketing Service of the Department, in his discretion.
(b) All services provided under the regulations of this part, including the hiring and licensing of inspection, grading, and sampling personnel shall be conducted without discrimination because of race, color, sex, religion, or national origin.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, as amended at 38 FR 25166, Sept. 12, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Definitions
§ 52.2
Terms defined.
Words in the regulations in this part in the singular form shall be deemed to import the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. For the purposes of the regulations in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Acceptance number.
“Acceptance number” means the number in a sampling plan that indicates the maximum number of deviants permitted in a sample of a lot that meets a specific requirement.
Act.
“Act” means the applicable provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 1087
et seq.,
as amended; 7 U.S.C. 1621
et seq.
), or any other act of Congress conferring like authority.
Administrator.
“Administrator” means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service.
Applicant.
“Applicant” means any interested party who requests inspection service under the regulations in this part.
Approved plant.
See “Plant, approved”.
Case.
“Case” means the number of containers (cased or uncased) which, by the particular industry are ordinarily packed in a shipping container.
Case or shipping case.
“Case” or “shipping case” means a unit consisting of a given number of primary containers of the same size, the number and arrangement per unit conforming to customary trade practice. For products not physically assembled into a shipping case (i.e. stacked bright)
case
means simulating the containers in such lot into a unit consisting of the same number of primary containers corresponding to customary trade practice (or corresponding to the unit as defined above).
Certificate of loading.
Certificate of loading means a statement, either written or printed, issued pursuant to the regulations in this part, relative to checkloading of a processed product subsequent to inspection thereof. The certificate of loading may be issued in lieu of an official inspection certificate when the same inspection procedures are applied and when authorized by the Administrator.
Certificate of sampling.
“Certificate of sampling” means a statement, either written or printed issued pursuant to the regulations in this part, identifying officially drawn samples and may include a description of condition of containers and the condition under which the processed product is stored.
Class.
See “Grade.”
Condition.
“Condition” means the degree of soundness of the product which
may affect its merchantability and includes, but is not limited to those factors which are subject to change as a result of age, improper preparation and processing, improper packaging, improper storage or improper handling.
Department.
“Department” means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Deviant.
“Deviant” means a sample unit affected by one or more deviations or a sample unit that varies in a specifically defined manner from the requirements of a standard, specification, or other inspection document.
Deviation.
“Deviation” means any specifically defined variation from a particular requirement.
Grade
or
class.
“Grade” or “class” designates a level or rank of quality.
Grader.
See “Inspector”.
Inspection certificate.
“Inspection certificate” means a statement, either written or printed, issued pursuant to the regulations in this part, setting forth in addition to appropriate descriptive information relative to a processed product, and the container thereof, the quality and condition, or any part thereof, of the product and may include a description of the conditions under which the product is stored.
Inspection service.
(See
Inspection service, general below.
)
Inspection service, general:
(a) The sampling pursuant to the regulations in this part;
(b) The determination pursuant to the regulations in this part of:
(1) Essential characteristics such as style, type, size, sirup density or identity of any processed product which differentiates between major groups of the same kind;
(2) The class, quality and condition of any processed product, including the condition of the container thereof by the examination of appropriate samples;
(c) The issuance of any certificate of sampling, inspection certificates, or certificates of loading of a processed product, or any report relative to any of the foregoing; or
(d) Performance by an inspector of any related services such as observing the preparation of the product from its raw state through each step in the entire process; observing conditions under which the product is prepared, processed, and packed; or observing plant sanitation as a prerequisite to the inspection of the processed product, either on a continuous or periodic basis, or checkloading the inspected processed product in connection with the distribution or marketing thereof.
Inspection Service; types of.
(a)
Lot inspection
means the inspection and grading of specific lots of processed fruits and vegetables which are located in plant warehouses, commercial storage, railway cars, trucks, or any other conveyance or storage facility.
(b)
Approved plant-lot inspection
means the inspection and grading of specific lots of processed fruits and vegetables which are located in plant warehouses, commercial storage, railway cars, trucks, or any other conveyance or storage facility. However, under “approved plant-lot inspection”, the inspection service has knowledge that the products were processed or packaged in plants meeting the “plant approved” definition. This means that the plant facilities, sanitation, and methods of operation have been surveyed and approved for specific product(s) by the Administrator as suitable and adequate for inspection or grading service in accordance with § 52.81 through § 52.83 of this part.
(c)
Continuous inspection
is the conduct of inspection and grading services in an approved plant whereby one or more inspector(s) are present at all times the plant is in operation to make in-process checks on the preparation, processing, packing, and warehousing of all products under contract and to assure compliance with sanitary requirements.
(d)
Pack certification
is the conduct of inspection and grading services in an approved plant whereby one or more inspector(s) may make inspection of the preparation and processing of products under contract, but are not required to be present at all times the plant is in operation.
(1) Under a Designated Lot-contract, inspector(s) will grade and certify only those lots designated by the applicant.
(2) Under a Quality Assurance contract, inspector(s) will use information available from the applicant's quality
control records to certify lots, as requested, and will grade lots at random as often as necessary to verify the reliability of the applicant's quality control system.
Inspector or grader.
“Inspector” or “grader” means any employee of the Department authorized by the Secretary or any other person licensed by the Secretary to investigate, sample, inspect, and certify in accordance with the regulations in this part to any interested party the class, quality and condition of processed products covered in this part and to perform related duties in connection with the inspection service.
Inspector in charge.
“Inspector in Charge” means any inspector designated on a plant working shift or in a field office laboratory as the inspector in charge of the inspection work when authorized by the Administrator to act in that capacity.
Inspector, subordinate.
“Subordinate inspector” means any inspector assigned to a plant or field office to work under the direction of an inspector-in-charge.
Inspector's aide.
“Inspector's aide” means any employee of the Department authorized to perform a limited number and type of duties under the close supervision of an inspector.
Interested party.
“Interested party” means any person who has a financial interest in the commodity involved.
Licensed sampler.
“Licensed sampler” means any person who is authorized by the Secretary to draw samples of processed products for inspection service, to inspect for identification and condition of containers in a lot, and may, when authorized by the Administrator, perform related services under the act and the regulations in this part.
Lot.
Lot means any number of containers of the same size and type which contain a processed product of the same type and style located in the same warehouse or conveyance, and which is available for inspection service at any time: Provided, that the number of containers comprising lot may not exceed the maximum number specified in the sampling plans in § 52.38 of this Subpart: And further provided that:
(a) If the applicant requests a separate inspection certificate covering a specific portion of a lot, such portion must be separately marked or otherwise identified in such a manner as to permit sampling, inspection, and certification of such portion as a separate lot; and
(b) Under in-plant (in-process) inspection, the inspector is authorized to limit the number of containers of a processed product that may be included in a lot to a period of consecutive production equivalent to one production shift with a maximum of 24 hours of consecutive production.
Officially drawn sample.
“Officially drawn sample” means any sample that has been selected from a particular lot by an inspector, licensed sampler, or by any other person authorized by the Administrator pursuant to the regulations in this part.
Other processed food products.
Among such other processed food products are the following: Honey; molasses, except for stockfeed; nuts and nut products, except oil; sugar (cane, beet, and maple); sirups (blended), sirups, except from grain; tea; cocoa; coffee; spices; condiments.
Person.
“Person” means any individual, partnership, association, business trust, corporation, any organized group of persons (whether incorporated or not), the United States (including, but not limited to, any corporate agencies thereof), any State, county, or municipal government, any common carrier, and any authorized agent of any of the foregoing.
Plant.
“Plant” means the premises, buildings, structure, and equipment (including, but not being limited to machines, utensils, vehicles, and fixtures located in or about the premises) used or employed in the preparation, processing, handling, transporting and storage of fruits and vegetables, or the processed products thereof.
Plant, approved.
“Approved plant” means any plant in which the facilities, sanitation, and methods of operation have been surveyed and approved for specific product(s) by the Administrator as suitable and adequate for inspection or grading service in accordance with §§ 52.81 through 52.83.
Processed product.
“Processed product” means any fruit, vegetable, or other food product covered under the regulations in this part which has been preserved by any recognized commercial process, including, but not limited to canning, freezing, dehydrating, drying, the addition of chemical substances, or by fermentation.
Quality.
“Quality” means the inherent properties of any processed product which determine the relative degree of excellence of such product, and includes the effects of preparation and processing, and may or may not include the effects of packing media, or added ingredients.
Rejection number.
“Rejection number” means the number in a sampling plan that indicates the minimum number of deviants in a sample that will cause a lot to fail a specific requirement.
Sample.
“Sample” means any number of sample units to be used for inspection.
Sample unit.
“Sample unit” means a container and/or its entire contents, a portion of the contents of one or more containers or other unit of commodity, or a composite mixture of a product used for inspection.
Sampling.
“Sampling” means the act of selecting samples of processed products for the purpose of inspection under the regulations in this part.
Secretary.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Department or any other officer or employee of the Department authorized to exercise the powers and to perform the duties of the Secretary in respect to the matters covered by the regulations in this part.
Shipping container.
“Shipping container” means an individual container designed for shipping a number of packages or cans ordinarily packed in a container for shipping or designed for packing unpackaged processed products for shipping.
Unofficial sample.
Unofficial sample means any sample that has been selected by any person other than an inspector or licensed sampler, or by any other person not authorized by the Administrator pursuant to the regulations in this part.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, as amended at 33 FR 9582, July 2, 1968; 35 FR 14061, Sept. 4, 1970; 38 FR 25166, Sept. 12, 1973; 38 FR 26903, Sept. 27, 1973; 40 FR 48934, Oct. 20, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 51 FR 20438, June 5, 1986; 58 FR 42413, Aug. 9, 1993; 72 FR 10037, Mar. 7, 2007; 79 FR 67321, Nov. 13, 2014; 85 FR 19380, Apr. 7, 2020]
§ 52.3
Designation of official certificates, memoranda, marks, other identifications, and devices for purposes of the Agricultural Marketing Act.
Subsection 203(h) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended by Pub. L. 272, 84th Congress, provides criminal penalties for various specified offenses relating to official certificates, memoranda, marks or other identifications, and devices for making such marks or identifications, issued or authorized under section 203 of said act, and certain misrepresentations concerning the inspection or grading of agricultural products under said section. For the purposes of said subsection and the provisions in this part, the terms listed below shall have the respective meanings specified:
Official certificate.
“Official certificate” means any form of certification, either written or printed, including those defined in § 52.2, used under this part to certify with respect to the inspection, class, grade, quality, size, quantity, or condition of products (including the compliance of products with applicable specifications).
Official device.
“Official device” means a stamping appliance, branding device, stencil, printed label, or any other mechanically or manually operated tool that is approved by the Administrator for the purpose of applying any official mark or other identification to any product or the packaging material thereof; or any device approved and designated by the Administrator as a USDA official device for use as a color standard, defect guide, or other similar aid to interpret the United States Department of Agriculture grade standards and to facilitate conduct of the inspection service.
Official identification.
“Official identification” means any United States (U.S.) standard designation of class, grade, quality, size, quantity, or condition specified in this part or any symbol, stamp, label, or seal indicating that the product has been graded or inspected and/or indicating the class, grade, quality, size, quantity, or condition of the product approved by the Administrator and authorized to be affixed to any product, or affixed to or printed on the packaging material of any product.
Official mark.
“Official mark” means the grade mark, inspection mark, combined form of inspection and grade mark, and any other mark, or any variations in such marks, including those prescribed in § 52.53 approved by the Administrator and authorized to be affixed to any product, or affixed to or printed on the packaging material of any product, stating that the product was graded or inspected or both, or indicating the appropriate U.S. Grade or condition of the product, or for the purpose of maintaining the identity of products graded or inspected or both under this part.
Official memorandum.
“Official memorandum” means any initial record of findings made by an authorized person in the process of grading, inspecting, or sampling pursuant to this part, any processing or plant-operation report made by an authorized person in connection with grading, inspecting, or sampling under this part, and any report made by an authorized person of services performed pursuant to this part.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, as amended at 23 FR 4999, July 1, 1958. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Inspection Service
§ 52.4
Where inspection service is offered.
Inspection service may be furnished wherever any inspector or licensed sampler is available and the facilities and conditions are satisfactory for the conduct of such service.
§ 52.5
Who may obtain inspection service.
An application for inspection service may be made by any interested party, including, but not limited to, the United States and any instrumentality or agency thereof, any State, county, municipality, or common carrier, and any authorized agent in behalf of the foregoing.
§ 52.6
How to make application.
An application for inspection service may be made to the office of inspection or to any inspector, at or nearest the place where the service is desired. An up-to-date list of the Inspection Field Offices of the Department may be obtained upon request to the Administrator. Satisfactory proof that the applicant is an interested party shall be furnished.
§ 52.7
Information required in connection with application.
(a) Application for inspection service shall be made in the English language and may be made orally (in person or by telephone), in writing, or electronically. If an application for inspection is made orally, written confirmation may be required by the inspection service involved.
(b) In connection with each application for inspection service, there shall be furnished such information as may be necessary to perform an inspection on the processed product(s), including but not limited to, the name of the product, name and address of the packer or plant where such product was packed, the location of the product, its lot or car number, codes or other identification marks, the number of containers, the type and size of the containers, the interest of the applicant in the product, whether the lot has been inspected previous to the application by any Federal agency and the purpose for which inspection is desired.
[51 FR 20439, June 5, 1986, as amended at 81 FR 93572, Dec. 21, 2016]
§ 52.8
Filing of application.
An application for inspection service shall be regarded as filed only when made in accordance with the regulations in this part.
§ 52.9
Record of filing time.
A record showing the date when each application for inspection or for an appeal inspection is received shall be maintained.
[51 FR 20439, June 5, 1986]
§ 52.10
When application may be rejected.
An application for inspection service may be rejected by the Administrator (a) for non-compliance by the applicant with the regulations in this part, (b) for non-payment for previous inspection services rendered, (c) when the product is not properly identifiable by code or other marks, or (d) when it appears that to perform the inspection service would not be to the best interests of the Government. Such applicant shall be promptly notified of the reason for such rejection.
§ 52.11
When application may be withdrawn.
An application for inspection service may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time before the inspection is performed:
Provided,
That, the applicant shall pay at the hourly rate prescribed in § 52.42 for the time incurred by the inspector in connection with such application, any travel expenses, telephone, telegraph or other expenses which have been incurred by the inspection service in connection with such application.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, as amended at 38 FR 25166, Sept. 12, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.12
Disposition of inspected sample.
Any sample of a processed product that has been used for inspection may be returned to the applicant, at his request and expense; otherwise it shall be destroyed, or disposed of to a charitable institution.
§ 52.13
Basis of inspection and grade or compliance determination.
(a) Inspection service shall be performed on the basis of the appropriate United States standards for grades of processed products, Federal, Military, Veterans Administration or other government agency specifications, written contract specifications, or any written specification or instruction which is approved by the Administrator.
(b) Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, compliance with such grade standards, specifications, or instructions shall be determined by evaluating the product, or sample, in accordance with the requirements of such standards, specifications or instructions:
Provided,
That when inspection for quality is based on any U.S. grade standard which contains a scoring system, the grade to be assigned to a lot is the grade indicated by the average of the total of the scores of the respective sample units:
Provided further,
That—
(1) Such sample complies with the applicable standards of quality promulgated under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(2) Such sample complies with the product description;
(3) Such sample meets the indicated grade with respect to factors of quality which are not rated by score points; and
(4) With respect to those factors of quality which are rated by score points, each of the following requirements is met:
(i) None of the sample units falls more than one grade below the indicated grade because of any quality factor to which a limiting rule applies;
(ii) None of the sample units falls more than 4 score points below the minimum total score for the indicated grade;
(iii) The number of deviants does not exceed the applicable acceptance number indicated in the sampling plans contained in § 52.38 (“deviants”, as used in this paragraph, means sample units that fall into the next grade below the indicated grade but do not score more than 4 points below the minimum total score for the indicated grade);
(5) If any of the provisions contained in paragraphs (b) (3) and (4) of this section are not met, the grade is determined by considering such provisions in connection with succeedingly lower grades until the grade of the lot, if assignable, is established; and
(6) When it is determined that a portion of a lot bearing a particular identification mark is of lower quality or
deficient in other factors, the grade or compliance of the lot shall be no higher than that of the portion bearing the particular identification mark.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, as amended at 33 FR 9582, July 2, 1968. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.14
Order of inspection service.
Inspection service shall be performed, insofar as practicable, in the order in which applications therefor are made except that precedence may be given to any such applications which are made by the United States (including, but not being limited to, any instrumentality or agency thereof) and to any application for an appeal inspection.
§ 52.15
Postponing inspection service.
If the inspector determines that it is not possible to accurately ascertain the quality or condition of a processed product immediately after processing because the product has not reached equilibrium in color, sirup density, or drained weight, or for any other substantial reason, he may postpone inspection service for such period as may be necessary.
§ 52.16
Financial interest of inspector.
No inspector shall inspect any processed product in which he is directly or indirectly financially interested.
§ 52.17
Forms of certificates.
Inspection certificates, certificates of sampling or loading, and other memoranda concerning inspection service shall be issued on forms approved by the Administrator.
§ 52.18
Issuance of certificates.
(a)(1) The person signing and issuing the certificate shall be one of the following:
(i) The inspector who performed the inspection.
(ii) Another employee of the Inspection Service who has been authorized by the Administrator to act in a supervisory capacity.
(iii) An inspector designated as the “inspector in charge,” when the certificate represents composite inspection of several persons.
(2) In all cases the inspection certificate shall be prepared in accordance with the facts set forth in the official memoranda made by the inspector or inspectors in connection with the inspection. Whenever a certificate is signed by an inspector in charge, that title must appear in connection with the signature.
(b) A certificate of loading shall be issued and signed by the inspector or licensed sampler authorized to check the loading of a specific lot of processed products:
Provided,
That, another employee of the inspection service authorized by the Administrator to act in a supervisory capacity or designated as the “inspector in charge,” may sign such certificate of loading covering any processed product checkloaded by an inspector or licensed sampler and authorized by the Administrator to affix the inspector's or licensed sampler's signature to a certificate of loading which has been prepared in accordance with the facts set forth in the notes made by the inspector or licensed sampler in connection with the checkloading of a specific lot of processed products.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, as amended at 35 FR 14061, Sept. 4, 1970. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981; 84 FR 8590, Mar. 11, 2019]
§ 52.19
Issuance of corrected certificates.
A corrected inspection certificate may be issued by the inspector who issued the original certificate after distribution of a certificate if errors, such as incorrect dates, code marks, grade statements, lot or car numbers, container sizes, net or drained weights, quantities, or errors in any other pertinent information require the issuance of a corrected certificate. Whenever a corrected certificate is issued, such certificate shall supersede the inspection certificate which was issued in error and the superseded certificate shall become null and void after the issuance of the corrected certificate.
§ 52.20
Issuance of an inspection report in lieu of an inspection certificate.
A letter report in lieu of an inspection certificate may be issued by an inspector when such action appears to be more suitable than an inspection certificate:
Provided,
That, the issuance of such report is approved by the Administrator.
§ 52.21
Disposition of inspection certificates.
The original of any inspection certificate, issued under the regulations in this part, and not to exceed four copies thereof, if requested prior to issuance, shall be delivered or mailed promptly to the applicant, or person designated by the applicant. All other copies shall be filed in such manner as the Administrator may designate. Additional copies of any such certificates may be supplied to any interested party as provided in § 52.49.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1997, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 63 FR 50746, Sept. 23, 1998]
§ 52.22
Report of inspection results prior to issuance of formal report.
Upon request of any interested party, the results of an inspection may be telegraphed or telephoned to him, or to any other person designated by him, at his expense.

# Appeal Inspection
§ 52.23
When appeal inspection may be requested.
An application for an appeal inspection may be made by any interested party who is dissatisfied with the results of an inspection as stated in an inspection certificate, if the lot of processed products can be positively identified by the inspection service as the lot from which officially drawn samples were previously inspected. Such application shall be made within thirty (30) days following the day on which the previous inspection was performed, except upon approval by the Administrator the time within which an application for appeal inspection may be made may be extended.
§ 52.24
Where to file for an appeal inspection and information required.
(a) Application for an appeal inspection may be filed with:
(1) The supervisor in the office that issued the inspection certificate on which the appeal covering the processed product is requested; or
(2) The inspector in charge of the office of inspection at or nearest the place where the processed product is located.
(b) The application for appeal inspection shall state the location of the lot of processed products and the reasons for the appeal; and date and serial number of the certificate covering inspection of the processed product on which the appeal is requested, and such application may be accompanied by a copy of the previous inspection certificate and any other information that may facilitate inspection. Such application may be made orally (in person or by telephone), in writing, or by telegraph. If made orally, written confirmation shall be made promptly.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 51 FR 20439, June 5, 1986]
§ 52.25
When an application for an appeal inspection may be withdrawn.
An application for appeal inspection may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time before the appeal inspection is performed:
Provided,
That, the applicant shall pay at the hourly rate prescribed in § 52.42, for the time incurred by the inspector in connection with such application, any travel expenses, telephone, telegraph, or other expenses which have been incurred by the inspection service in connection with such application.
[22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, as amended at 38 FR 25166, Sept. 12, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.26
When appeal inspection may be refused.
An application for an appeal inspection may be refused if:
(a) The reasons for the appeal inspection are frivolous or not substantial;
(b) The quality or condition of the processed product has undergone a material change since the inspection covering the processed product on which the appeal inspection is requested;
(c) The lot in question is not, or cannot be made accessible for the selection of officially drawn samples;
(d) The lot relative to which appeal inspection is requested cannot be positively identified by the inspector as the lot from which officially drawn samples were previously inspected; or
(e) There is noncompliance with the regulations in this part. Such applicant shall be notified promptly of the reason for such refusal.
§ 52.27
Who shall perform appeal inspection.
An appeal inspection shall be performed by an inspector or inspectors (other than the one from whose inspection the appeal is requested) authorized for this purpose by the Administrator and, whenever practical, such appeal inspection shall be conducted jointly by two such inspectors:
Provided,
That, the inspector who made the inspection on which the appeal is requested may be authorized to draw the samples when another inspector or licensed sampler is not available in the area where the product is located.
§ 52.28
Appeal inspection certificate.
After an appeal inspection has been completed, the lot(s) cannot be further appealed unless authorized by the Administrator. An appeal inspection certificate shall be issued, showing the results of such appeal inspection; and such certificate shall supersede the inspection certificate previously issued for the processed product involved. Each appeal inspection certificate shall clearly identify the number and date of the inspection certificate which it supersedes. The superseded certificate shall become null and void upon the issuance of the appeal inspection certificate and shall no longer represent the quality or condition of the processed product described therein. The inspector or inspectors issuing an appeal inspection certificate shall forward notice of such issuance to such persons as he considers necessary to prevent misuse of the superseded certificate if the original and all copies of such superseded certificate have not previously been delivered to the inspector or inspectors issuing the appeal inspection certificate. The provisions in the regulations in this part concerning forms and certificates, issuance of certificates, and disposition of certificates shall apply to appeal inspection certificates, except that copies of such appeal inspection certificates shall be furnished to all interested parties who received copies of the superseded certificate.
[51 FR 20439, June 5, 1986]

# Licensing of Samplers and Inspectors
§ 52.29
Who may become licensed sampler.
Any person deemed to have the necessary qualifications may be licensed as a licensed sampler to draw samples for the purpose of inspection under the regulations in this part. Such a license shall bear the printed signature of the Secretary, and shall be countersigned by an authorized employee of the Department. Licensed samplers shall have no authority to inspect processed products under the regulations in this part except as to identification and condition of the containers in a lot. A licensed sampler shall perform his duties pursuant to the regulations in this part as directed by the Administrator.
§ 52.30
Application to become a licensed sampler.
Application to become a licensed sampler shall be made to the Administrator on forms furnished for that purpose. Each such application shall be signed by the applicant in his own handwriting, and the information contained therein shall be certified by him to be true, complete, and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief, and the application shall contain or be accompanied by:
(a) A statement showing his present and previous occupations, together with names of all employers for whom he has worked, with periods of service, during the ten years previous to the date of his application;
(b) A statement that, in his capacity as a licensed sampler, he will not draw
samples from any lot of processed products with respect to which he or his employer is an interested party;
(c) A statement that he agrees to comply with all terms and conditions of the regulations in this part relating to duties of licensed samplers; and
(d) Such other information as may be requested.
§ 52.31
Inspectors.
Inspections will ordinarily be performed by employees under the Administrator who are employed as Federal Government employees for that purpose. However, any person employed under any joint Federal-State inspection service arrangement may be licensed, if otherwise qualified, by the Secretary to make inspections in accordance with this part on such processed products as may be specified in his license. Such license shall be issued only in a case where the Administrator is satisfied that the particular person is qualified to perform adequately the inspection service for which such person is to be licensed. Each such license shall bear the printed signature of the Secretary and shall be countersigned by an authorized employee of the Department. An inspector shall perform his duties pursuant to the regulations in this part as directed by the Administrator.
§ 52.32
Suspension or revocation of license of licensed sampler or licensed inspector.
Pending final action by the Secretary, the Administrator may, whenever he deems such action necessary, suspend the license of any licensed sampler, or licensed inspector, issued pursuant to the regulations in this part, by giving notice of such suspension to the respective licensee, accompanied by a statement of the reasons therefor. Within seven days after the receipt of the aforesaid notice and statement of reasons by such licensee, he may file an appeal, in writing, with the Secretary supported by any argument or evidence that he may wish to offer as to why his license should not be suspended or revoked. After the expiration of the aforesaid seven days period and consideration of such argument and evidence, the Secretary shall take such action as he deems appropriate with respect to such suspension or revocation.
§ 52.33
Surrender of license.
Upon termination of his services as a licensed sampler or licensed inspector, or suspension or revocation of his license, such licensee shall surrender his license immediately to the office of inspection serving the area in which he is located. These same provisions shall apply in a case of an expired license.

# Sampling
§ 52.34
How samples are drawn by inspectors or licensed samplers.
An inspector or a licensed sampler shall select samples, upon request, from designated lots of processed products which are so placed as to permit thorough and proper sampling in accordance with the regulations in this part. Such person shall, unless otherwise directed by the Administrator, select sample units of such products at random, and from various locations in each lot in such manner and number, not inconsistent with the regulations in this part, as to secure a representative sample of the lot. Samples drawn for inspection shall be furnished by the applicant at no cost to the Department.
§ 52.35
Accessibility for sampling.
Each applicant shall cause the processed products for which inspection is requested to be made accessible for proper sampling. Failure to make any lot accessible for proper sampling shall be sufficient cause for postponing inspection service until such time as such lot is made accessible for proper sampling.
§ 52.36
How officially drawn samples are to be identified.
Officially drawn samples shall be marked by the inspector or licensed sampler so such samples can be properly identified for inspection.
§ 52.37
How official samples are to be identified and shipped.
Unless otherwise directed by the Administrator, samples which are to be shipped to any office of inspection
shall be forwarded to the office of inspection serving the area in which the processed products from which the samples were drawn is located. Such samples shall be shipped in a manner to avoid any material change in the quality or condition of the sample of the processed product. Containers shall be identified and properly sealed with tape. A facsimile of the “Officially Sampled” stamp shall be placed over the taped container. All transportation charges in connection with such shipments of samples shall be at the expense of the applicant.
[51 FR 20439, June 5, 1986]
§ 52.38
Sampling plans and procedures for determining lot compliance.
(a) Except as otherwise provided for in this section in connection with in-plant inspection and unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, samples shall be selected from each lot in the exact number of sample units indicated for the lot size in the applicable sampling plans. The lot size is to correspond to a sample size with a maximum of 29 sample units: Provided, that at the discretion of the inspection service, the number of sample units selected may be increased to the exact number of sample units indicated for any one of the larger sample sizes provided for in the appropriate plans. The samples size may be increased beyond 29 sample units in accordance with the following sampling plan:
Sample Size
38
48
60
Acceptance Number
5
6
7
(b) Under the sampling plans with respect to any specified requirement:
(1) If the number of deviants (as defined in connection with the specific requirement) in the sample does not exceed the acceptance number prescribed for the sample size, the lot meets the requirement;
(2) If the number of deviants (as defined in connection with the specific requirement) in the sample exceeds the acceptance number prescribed for the sample size, the lot fails the requirement.
(c) If in the conduct of on-line in-plant inspection of a product covered by a grade standard which does not contain sampling plans, the sample is examined before the lot size is known and the number of sample units exceeds the prescribed sample size for such lot, but does not equal any of the prescribed larger sample sizes, the lot may be deemed to meet or fail a specific requirement in accordance with the following procedure:
(1) If the number of deviants (as defined in connection with the specific requirement) in the nonprescribed sample does not exceed the acceptance number of the next smaller sample size, the lot meets the requirement;
(2) If the number of deviants (as defined in connection with the specific requirement) in the nonprescribed sample equals the acceptance number prescribed for the next larger sample size, additional sample units shall be selected to increase the sample to the next larger prescribed sample size;
(3) If the number of deviants (as defined in connection with the specific requirement) in the nonprescribed sample exceeds the acceptance number prescribed for the next larger sample size, the lot fails the requirement.
(d) In the conduct of on-line in-plant inspection, sampling may be performed on a time interval basis. The sampling frequency shall be specified in an applicable grade standard or other procedural instruction approved by the Administrator.
(e) In the event that the lot compliance determination provisions of a standard or specification are based on the number of specified deviations instead of deviants the procedures set forth in this section may be applied by substituting the word “deviation” for the word “deviant” wherever it appears.
(f) Sampling plans referred to in this section are those contained in Tables I, II, III, IV, and V and (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section which follow or any other plans which are applicable. For processed products not included in these tables, the minimum sample size shall be the exact number of sample units prescribed in the table, container group, and lot size that, as determined by the inspector, most closely resembles the product, type, container, size and amount of product to be sampled. The maximum sample size in tables I, II, III, IV, V, (g)(1), (g)(2) and processed
products not included in these tables is 29 sample units.
(g)(1)
Sampling plan for dried figs.
For each 10,000 pounds (or fraction of 10,000 pounds) of product—6 sample units of approximately 35 figs each accumulated into 1 composite (at least 200 figs). Each composite will be examined separately, and all must meet the requirement for the U.S. Grade.
(2)
Sampling plan for dried fruits other than dates and figs.
For each 15,000 pounds (or fraction of 15,000 pounds) of product—sample units of approximately 16 ounces each accumulated into 1 composite (at least 100 ounces) Each composite will be examined separately and all must meet the requirements for the U.S. Grade.
Table I—Canned or Similarly Processed Fruits, Vegetables, and Products Containing Units of Such Size and Character as To Be Readily Separable
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
1
Group 1: Any type container of a volume not exceeding that of a No. 303 size can
3,000 or
less
3,001 to
12,000
12,001 to
39,000
39,001 to
84,000
84,001 to
145,000
Group 2: Any type of container of a volume exceeding that of a No. 303 size can but not exceeding that of a No. 3 cylinder size can
1,500 or
less
1,501 to
6,000
6,001 to
19,500
19,501 to
42,000
42,001 to
72,500
Group 3: Any type of container of a volume exceeding that of a No. 3 cylinder size can, but not exceeding that of a No. 12 size can
750 or
less
751 to
3,000
3,001 to
9,750
9,751 to
21,000
21,001 to
36,250
Group 4: Any type of container of a volume exceeding that of a
No. 12 size can.
Convert to equivalent number of 6-lb. net weight containers and use group 3
Lot inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
13
21
29
Acceptance number
0
1
2
3
4
On-line in-plant inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
6
13
21
Acceptance number
0
1
1
2
3
1
Under on-line in-plant inspection, a 5% overrun in number of containers may be permitted by the inspector before going to the next larger sample size.
2
When a standard sample size is not specified in the U.S. grade standards, the sample units for the various container size groups are as follows: Groups 1, 2, and 3—1 container and its entire contents. Group 4 that approximately 2 pounds of product. When determined by the inspector that a 2-pound sample unit is inadequate, a larger sample unit may be substituted.
Table II—Frozen or Similarly Processed Fruits, Vegetables, and Products Containing Units of Such Size and Character as To Be Readily Separable
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
1
Group 1: Any type of container of 1 lb. or less
2,400 or
less
2,401 to
9,600
9,601 to
31,200
31,201 to
67,200
67,201 to
116,000
Group 2: Any type of container over 1 lb. but not over 2-
1/2
lbs. net weight
1,200 or
less
1,201 to
4,800
4,801 to
15,600
15,601 to
33,600
33,601 to
58,000
Group 3: Any type of container over 2-
1/2
lbs.
Convert to equivalent number of 2-
1/2
lb. containers and use group 2
Lot inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
13
21
29
Acceptance number
0
1
2
3
4
On-line in-plant inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
6
13
21
Acceptance number
0
1
1
2
3
1
Under on-line in-plant inspection, a 5% overrun in number of containers may be permitted by the inspector before going to the next larger sample size.
2
When a standard sample unit size is not specified in the U.S. grade standards, the sample units for the various container size groups are as follows: Groups 1 and 2—1 container and its entire contents. Group 3 containers up to 10 lbs.—approximately 3 pounds of product. When determined by the inspector that a 3-pound sample unit is inadequate, a larger sample unit or 1 or more containers and their entire contents may be substituted for 1 or more sample units of 3 lbs.
Table III—Canned, Frozen, or Otherwise Processed Fruits, Vegetables, Related Products of a Comminuted, Fluid or Homogeneous State
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
1
Group 1: Any type of container of 1 lb. or less
4,500 or
less
4,501 to
18,000
18,001 to
56,000
58,501 to
126,000
126,001 to
217,000
Group 2: Any type of container exceeding 1 lb. but not exceeding 60 ounces.
3,000 or
less
3,001 to
12,000
12,001 to
39,000
39,001 to
84,000
84,001 to
145,000
Group 3: Any type of container exceeding 60 ounces but not exceeding 10 lbs.
1,500 or
less
1,501 to
6,000
6,001 to
19,500
19,501 to
42,000
42,001 to
72,500
Group 4: Any type of container of a volume exceeding 10 lbs.
Convert to equivalent number of 6-lb. containers and use group 3
Lot inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
13
21
29
Acceptance number
0
1
2
3
4
On-line in-plant inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
6
13
21
Acceptance number
0
1
1
2
3
1
Under on-line in-plant inspection, a 5% overrun in number of containers may be permitted by the inspector before going to the next larger sample size.
2
When a standard sample size is not specified in the U.S. grade standards, the sample units for the various container size groups are as follows: Groups 1, 2, and 3—1 container and its entire contents. A smaller sample unit may be substituted in Group 3 at the inspector's discretion. Group 4—approximately 16 ounces of product. When determined by the inspector that a 16 ounce sample unit is inadequate, a larger sample unit may be substituted.
Table IV—Dehydrated (Low-Moisture) Fruits, and Vegetables
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
1
Group 1: Any type of container of 1 lb. or less
1,800 or
less
1,801 to
7,200
7,201 to
23,400
23,401 to
50,400
50,401 to
87,000
Group 2: Any type of container over 1 lb. but not over 6 lbs. net weight
600 or
less
601 to
2,400
2,401 to
7,800
7,801 to
16,800
16,801 to
29,000
Group 3: Any type of container over 6 lbs.
Convert to equivalent number of 5 lb. containers and use group 2
Lot inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
13
21
29
Acceptance number
0
1
2
3
4
On-line in-plant inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
6
13
21
Acceptance number
0
1
1
2
3
1
Under on-line in-plant inspection, a 5% overrun in number of containers may be permitted by the inspector before going to the next larger sample size.
2
When a standard sample unit size is not specified in the U.S. grade standards, the sample units for the various container size groups are as follows: Group 1—1 container and its entire contents. Groups 2 and 3—1 container and its entire contents or a smaller sample unit when determined by the inspector to be adequate.
Table V—Dates
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
1
Group 1: Any type of container of 1 lb. or less net weight
2,400 or
less
2,401 to
9,600
9,601 to
31,200
31,201 to
67,000
67,201 to
116,000
Group 2: Any type of container over 1 lb. but not over 5 lbs. net weight
800 or
less
801 to
3,200
3,201 to
10,400
10,401 to
22,400
22,401 to
33,667
Group 3: Any type of container over 5 lbs.
Convert to equivalent number of 5 lb. containers and use group 2
Lot inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
13
21
29
Acceptance number
0
1
2
3
4
On-line in-plant inspection sample size (no. of sample units)
2
3
6
6
13
21
Acceptance number
0
1
1
2
3
1
Under on-line in-plant inspection, a 5% overrun in number of containers may be permitted by the inspector before going to the next larger sample size.
2
When a standard sample size is not specified in the U.S. grade standards, the sample units for the various container size groups are as follows: Groups 1 and 2—1 container and its entire contents. Group 3 containers up to 10 pounds—1 container and its entire contents. Group 3 containers over 10 pounds—approximately three pounds of product. When determined by the inspector that a 3-pound sample unit is inadequate, a larger sample unit or 1 or more containers and their entire contents may be substituted for 1 or more sample units of 3 pounds.
[38 FR 25166, Sept. 12, 1973; 38 FR 26903, Sept. 27, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 51 FR 20439, June 5, 1986; 63 FR 50747, Sept. 23, 1998]
§ 52.38a
Definitions of terms applicable to statistical sampling.
(a) Terms applicable to both on-line inspection and lot inspection.
(1)
Acceptable Quality Level (AQL).
The maximum percent of defective units of product or the maximum number of defects per hundred units of product which are acceptable as a process average. At the AQL's contained in the statistical sampling plans of this subpart, production has a probability of acceptance (“Pa”) of approximately 95 percent.
(2)
Acceptance sampling.
Sampling inspection in which decisions are made to accept or reject product.
(3)
Attributes.
A method of measurement whereby units of product are examined for the presence or absence of specified characteristics in each unit in the sample.
(4)
Defect.
Any nonconformance of a unit of product from specified requirements of a single quality characteristic. Defects are classed as “minor,” “major,” “severe” or “critical” depending upon the severity and undesirability of the defect.
(5)
Defective.
A unit of product that has one or more defects.
(6)
Inspection by attributes.
Inspection whereby a unit of product is classified as defective or nondefective or the number or defects in the unit of product is counted.
(7)
Standard sample unit size.
A specified amount of product to be used for inspection.
(b) Terms applicable to on-line inspection only.
(1)
Basic inspection period.
A specified period of consecutive production designated for on-line inspection.
(2)
Cumulative Sum Sampling (CuSum) Plan.
An on-line sampling plan that accumulates the number of defects (or defectives), which exceed the sample unit tolerance (“T”), in a series of consecutive samples. Terms specific to the CuSum sampling plan are:
(i)
Acceptance limit (“L”).
The maximum accumulation of defects (or defectives) allowed to exceed the sample unit tolerance (“T”) in any sample unit or consecutive group of sample units.
(ii)
CuSum value.
The accumulated number of defects (or defectives) that exceed the sample unit tolerance (“T”).
(iii)
Sample unit tolerance (“T”).
The allowable number of defects (or defectives) in any sample unit.
(iv)
Starting value (“S”).
The initial CuSum value used to begin a CuSum sampling plan.
(3)
On-line sampling inspection.
The random selection and subsequent inspection of sample units from a production line.
(4)
Probability of acceptance (“Pa”).
The probability that a portion of production, with a given level of quality, will be accepted. In on-line sampling inspection, the probability of acceptance of any portion of production depends on the sample results obtained from the preceding portions. The probability of acceptance values associated with these procedures are the values which would be expected if a large
number of sample units are to be inspected. For the CuSum plans referenced in these procedures, the probability of acceptance at the Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) is approximately 95 percent. The starting value (“S”) associated with each CuSum plan helps to make the probability of acceptance of the first portions of production of a basic inspection period as close as possible to 95 percent.
(c) Terms applicable to lot inspection only.
(1)
Acceptance number.
The largest number of defects (or defectives) in the sample that will permit acceptance of the inspection lot.
(2)
Inspection lot.
Any number of containers of the same size and type which contain a processed product of the same type and style, manufactured or processed under essentially the same conditions, offered for inspection and acceptance at one time.
(3)
Probability of acceptance
(
“Pa”
). The probability that an inspection lot, with a given level of quality, will be accepted.
[43 FR 10540, Mar. 14, 1978. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.38b
Statistical sampling procedures for on-line inspection by attributes of processed fruits and vegetables.
(a)
General.
The Cumulative Sum Sampling Plan, hereinafter referred to as “CuSum,” shall be used as the on-line sampling plan for attributes standards under the following conditions.
(1) The producer has designated the intended grade for the basic inspection period prior to the start of production.
(2) Inspection of the product shall be made during the basic inspection period at a point after which all product characteristics, subject to inspection, are fixed and will not be subject to change during final packaging.
(3) A shift to CuSum sampling plans from lot sampling plans during a basic inspection period is not permitted (or vice versa).
(b)
Sampling rate/frequency.
The minimum number of standard sample units to be drawn at random shall be determined by the applicable sampling procedure as approved by the Administrator.
(c)
Determining CuSum values.
At the beginning of the basic inspection period, the CuSum value is set equal to the starting value (“S”) for the specified CuSum plan. The CuSum value is then determined for each consecutive sample unit as follows:
(1) Add the number of defects (or defectives) for the present sample unit to the CuSum value of the previous sample unit.
(2) Subtract the sample unit tolerance (“T”).
(3) The CuSum value is reset in the following situations. However, determine compliance with the designated grade (see paragraph (d) of this section) prior to resetting the CuSum value:
(i) Reset the CuSum value to zero (0) if the CuSum value is less than zero (0).
(ii) Reset the CuSum value to the acceptance limit (“L”) if the CuSum value exceeds the acceptance limit (“L”).
(d)
Determining compliance for a designated grade.
(1) A portion of production meets the designated grade if the CuSum value, calculated from the sample unit representing that portion, is equal to or less than the acceptance limit (“L”) for all classes of defects.
(2) A portion of production fails the designated grade if the CuSum value, calculated from the sample unit representing that portion, exceeds the acceptance limit (“L”) for one or more classes of defects.
(e)
Evaluation of production failing a designated grade.
Production failing a designated grade shall be reevaluated by procedures approved by the USDA.
(f)
Assigning a grade.
(1) All similarly identified (e.g., codes, subcodes, etc.) production will be assigned the same grade.
(2) The grade assigned to similarly identified production will be the lowest grade assigned to any portion of that similarly identified production.
(g)
Redesignation of producer's intended grade.
If the intended grade is redesignated during a basic inspection period, a new CuSum sampling plan shall be instituted for each class of defects (or defectives).
(h)
Cumulative Sum Sampling (CuSum) Plans for processed fruits and vegetables.
(1) Tables VI through X contain the CuSum sampling plans for each of five
different standard sample unit sizes. The plans within each table are listed according to increasing values of Acceptable Quality Levels (AQL's).
(2) AQL values of 10.0 or less may be expressed either in “defects per hundred units” or in “percent defective units.” The same sampling plans are used for both. Separate sampling plans must be used for AQL values greater than 10.0.
(3) These tables also provide the quality levels associated with 50 percent and 10 percent probabilities of acceptance for each of the plans. These quality levels are expressed in the same units as the corresponding AQL values.
(4) A separate CuSum sampling plan is chosen for each class of defects (or defectives) by first specifying the desired AQL and then selecting the appropriate standard sample unit size. The quality levels associated with 50 percent and 10 percent probabilities of acceptance may be used as guides to help determine a suitable standard sample unit size.
Table VI—CuSum Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=13]
AQL
S
T
L
Quality levels
Pa= 50%
Pa= 10%
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective
0.65
0.3
0.1
0.9
5.3
17.7
1.0
.2
.2
.8
5.6
17.7
1.5
0
.5
0.5
7.7
19.2
2.2
.5
.5
1.5
8.2
19.2
4.0
.8
.8
2
9.7
19.6
5.0
0
1
1
14.4
30.2
6.5
1
1
2
14.7
30.2
8.5
1
1.5
2.5
17.4
31.3
10.0
1
1.8
2.6
18.8
32.0
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
1
2
3
23.5
41.4
15.0
1
2.5
3
26.1
42.8
20.0
2
3
4
32.2
52.1
25.0
1
4
3
40.3
62.3
33.0
1
5
4
48.9
72.3
40.0
2
6
5
57.1
82.1
50.0
1
8
4
73.3
101.2
65.0
2
10
5
89.9
120.0
85.0
1
13
5
113.9
147.6
100.0
2
15
6
130.4
165.7
150.0
2
22
7
186.5
227.9
250.0
4
35
11
291.2
340.6
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
1
2
2
22.4
36.4
15.0
1
2.5
2.5
25.0
37.4
20.0
1
3
3
30.7
44.5
25.0
1
4
2
38.1
52.8
33.0
1
5
3
46.2
60.3
40.0
1
6
3
53.8
67.4
50.0
2
7
4
61.5
74.1
Table VII—CuSum Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=25]
AQL
S
T
L
Quality levels
Pa= 50%
Pa= 10%
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective
0.4
0.3
0.1
0.9
2.8
9.2
0.65
.2
.2
.8
3.4
9.2
1.0
0
.5
.5
4.0
10.0
1.5
1
.5
2
4.3
10.0
2.5
0
1
1
7.5
15.7
4.0
.5
1.5
2
9.0
16.3
5.0
1.5
1.5
3
9.1
16.3
6.5
1
2
3
12.2
21.5
8.5
0
3
2
16.4
27.1
10.0
1
3
3
16.7
27.1
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
1
4
3
21.0
32.4
15.0
1
5
3
25.2
37.6
20.0
1
6
4
29.7
42.7
25.0
1
8
3
37.7
52.7
33.0
1
10
4
46.5
62.4
40.0
2
12
5
55.1
72.0
50.0
2
14
7
63.9
81.5
65.0
3
18
8
80.7
100.1
85.0
4
23
10
101.8
123.1
100.0
4
27
10
118.3
141.2
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
1
4
3
20.5
29.8
15.0
0
5
2
24.3
34.3
20.0
1
6
3
28.7
38.7
25.0
2
7
4
33.0
43.0
33.0
2
9
5
41.2
51.2
40.0
2
11
5
49.2
59.1
50.0
1
14
3
60.6
70.3
Table VIII—CuSum Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=50]
AQL
S
T
L
Quality levels
Pa= 50%
Pa= 10%
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective
0.15
0.3
0.1
0.9
1.4
4.6
0.25
.2
.2
.8
1.5
4.6
0.4
0
.5
.5
2.0
5.0
0.65
.5
.5
1.5
2.1
5.0
1.0
.4
.8
1.6
2.5
5.1
1.5
1
1
2
3.8
7.9
2.5
1.5
1.5
3
4.6
8.1
4.0
1
2.5
3
6.8
11.1
5.0
1
3
3
9.3
13.6
6.5
1
4
3
10.5
16.2
8.5
1
5
4
12.7
18.8
10.0
1
6
4
14.9
21.4
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
1
8
3
18.9
26.3
15.0
1
9
4
21.1
28.8
20.0
2
12
5
27.5
36.0
25.0
2
14
7
31.9
40.7
33.0
3
18
9
40.4
50.0
40.0
3
22
9
48.7
59.3
50.0
4
27
10
59.1
70.6
65.0
4
35
11
75.7
88.5
85.0
5
45
14
96.5
110.7
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
2
7
5
16.8
22.3
15.0
1
9
4
20.9
27.2
20.0
2
11
6
25.2
31.6
25.0
2
14
5
31.2
38.1
33.0
2
18
6
39.4
46.4
40.0
1
22
5
47.3
54.4
50.0
1
27
5
57.2
64.1
Table IX—CuSum Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=100]
AQL
S
T
L
Quality levels
Pa= 50%
Pa= 10%
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective
0.1
0.3
0.1
0.9
0.7
2.3
0.15
.2
.2
.8
0.8
2.3
0.25
0
.5
.5
1.0
2.5
0.4
1
.5
2
1.1
2.5
0.65
0
1
1
1.9
3.9
1.0
.5
1.5
2
2.2
4.1
1.5
1
2
2
3.0
5.4
2.5
1
3
3
4.2
6.8
4.0
1
5
3
6.3
9.4
5.0
1
6
4
7.4
10.7
6.5
1
8
4
9.5
13.2
8.5
2
1.0
5
11.7
15.6
10.0
2
1.2
5
13.8
18.0
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
2
14
7
16.0
20.4
15.0
2
17
7
19.1
23.9
20.0
3
22
9
24.4
29.6
25.0
4
27
10
29.6
35.3
33.0
3
36
10
38.8
45.4
40.0
4
43
12
46.1
53.1
50.0
5
53
14
56.4
64.1
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
2
14
6
15.8
19.7
15.0
2
17
6
18.9
23.0
20.0
2
22
7
24.0
28.5
25.0
3
27
8
29.2
33.8
33.0
3
35
9
37.3
42.1
40.0
4
42
10
44.4
49.2
50.0
4
52
10
54.3
59.1
Table X—CuSum Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=200]
AQL
S
T
L
Quality levels
Pa= 50%
Pa= 10%
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective
0.04
0.3
0.1
0.9
0.3
1.2
0.065
0.2
0.2
0.8
0.4
1.2
0.1
0
0.5
0.5
0.5
1.3
0.15
0.4
0.8
0.8
0.6
1.3
0.25
0.4
0.8
1.6
0.6
1.3
0.4
1
1
2
1.0
2.0
0.65
1
1.8
2.6
1.2
2.1
1.0
1
2.5
3
1.7
2.8
1.5
1
4
3
2.6
4.1
2.5
1
6
4
3.7
5.3
4.0
1
10
4
5.8
7.8
5.0
2
12
5
6.9
9.0
6.5
2
15
6
8.5
10.8
8.5
3
19
8
10.6
13.1
10.0
3
22
9
12.2
14.8
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
4
27
10
14.8
17.7
15.0
3
33
9
17.8
21.0
20.0
4
43
12
23.1
26.6
25.0
5
53
14
28.2
32.1
33.0
5
70
15
36.9
41.3
40.0
6
84
18
44.1
48.8
50.0
6
105
18
54.8
60.1
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
3
27
9
14.7
17.3
15.0
4
32
10
17.3
20.0
20.0
3
43
9
22.8
25.9
25.0
4
53
11
27.9
31.1
33.0
5
69
13
36.1
39.4
40.0
5
83
14
43.1
46.5
50.0
5
103
14
53.1
56.5
[43 FR 10540, Mar. 14, 1978. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.38c
Statistical sampling procedures for lot inspection of processed fruits and vegetables by attributes.
(a)
General.
Single sampling plans shall be used as the lot sampling plan for attributes standards under either of the following conditions:
(1) Sampling of the product shall be made during the production period. No grade will be assigned to individual sample units. One grade determination only will be made at the end of the production period for the inspection lot.
(2) Sampling of the product shall be made when the inspection lot is located in a warehouse, truck, railroad car, or other similar conveyance.
(b)
Sample size.
Samples shall be randomly selected from each inspection lot in the exact number of sample units indicated for the lot size in tables XI through XIV as applicable for canned, frozen, dried, or dehydrated fruits and vegetables.
Table XI—Canned or Similarly Processed Fruits, Vegetables, and Products Containing Units of Such Size and Character as To Be Readily Separable
[Lot sample size]
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
Group 1: Any type container of a volume not exceeding that of a No. 303 size can
12,000 or less
12,001-39,000
39,001-84,000
84,001-145,000
Group 2: Any type of container of a volume exceeding that of a No. 303 size can but not exceeding that of a No. 3 cylinder size can
6,000 or less
6,001-19,500
19,501-42,000
42,001-72,500
Group 3: Any type of container of a volume exceeding that of a No. 3 cylinder size can, but not exceeding that of a No. 12 size can
3,000 or less
3,001-9,750
9,751-21,000
21,001-36,250
Group 4: Any type of container of a
volume exceeding that of a No. 12
Convert to equivalent number of 6-lb. net weight containers and use group 3
size can.
Lot inspection: Sample size (number of sample units)
6
13
21
29
Table XII—Frozen or Similarly Processed Fruits, Vegetables, and Products Containing Units of Such Size and Character as To Be Readily Separable
[Lot sample size]
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
Group 1: Any type of container of 1 lb or less net weight
9,600 or less
9,601-31,200
31,201-67,200
67,201-116,000
Group 2: Any type of container over 1 lb but not over 2
1/2
lb net weight
4,800 or less
4,801-15,600
15,601-33,600
33,601-58,000
Group 3: Any type of container over
Convert to equivalent number of 2
1/2
-lb. containers and use group 2
2
1/2
lbs.
Lot inspection: Sample size (number of sample units)
6
13
21
29
Table XIII—Canned, Frozen, or Otherwise Processed Fruits, Vegetables, Related Products of a Comminuted, Fluid or Homogeneous State
[Lot sample size]
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
Group 1: Any type of container of 1 lb or less
18,000 or less
18,001-58,500
58,501-126,000
126,001-217,000
Group 2: Any type of container exceeding 1 lb. but not exceeding 60 oz
12,000 or less
12,001-39,000
39,001-84,000
84,001-145,000
Group 3: Any type of container exceeding 60 oz but not exceeding 10 lb
6,000 or less
6,001-19,500
19,501-42,000
42,001-72,500
Group 4: Any type of container
Convert to equivalent number of 6-lb. containers and use group 3.
exceeding 10 lbs.
Lot inspection: Sample size (number of sample units)
6
13
21
29
Table XIV—Dehydrated (Low-Moisture) Fruits, and Vegetables
[Lot sample size]
Container size group
Lot size (number of containers)
Group 1: Any type of container of 1 lb or less net weight
7,200 or less
7,201-23,400
23,401-50,400
50,401-87,000
Group 2: Any type of container over 1 lb but not over 6 lb net weight
2,400 or less
2,401-7,800
7,801-16,800
16,801-29,000
Group 3: Any type of container over 6
Convert to equivalent number of 5-lb. containers and use group 2.
lbs.
Lot inspection: Sample size (number of sample units)
6
13
21
29
(c)
Determining compliance.
(1) An inspection lot meets the requirements of a quality grade if the number of defects (or defectives) is equal to or less than the acceptance numbers of all classes of defects.
(2) An inspection lot fails the requirements of a quality grade if the number of defects (or defectives) exceeds the acceptance number for one or more classes of defects.
(d)
Lot single sampling plans for processed fruits and vegetables.
(1) Tables XV through XIX contain the lot single sampling plans for each of five different standard sample unit sizes. The plans within each table are listed according to increasing values of Acceptable Quality Levels (AQL's).
(2) AQL values of 10.0 or less may be expressed either in “defects per hundred units” or in “percent defective units.” The same sampling plans are used for both. Separate sampling plans must be used for AQL values greater than 10.0.
(3) A separate lot single sampling plan is chosen for each class of defects (or defectives) by first specifying the desired AQL, the appropriate standard sample unit size, and the number of sample units as specified in § 52.38c (b) of this subpart. The quality levels associated with the Pa=50% and Pa=10% levels are given in the instructional manual.
Table XV—Lot Single Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=6]
Number of sample units
6
13
21
29
Acceptance numbers—quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective—AQL
1.0
1
2
3
4
1.5
1
3
4
5
2.5
3
4
6
8
4.0
4
6
9
11
5.0
4
7
11
14
6.5
5
9
13
17
8.5
6
11
16
21
10.0
7
12
19
24
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
8
15
22
29
15.0
9
17
26
35
20.0
12
22
33
44
25.0
14
27
41
54
33.0
18
34
52
70
40.0
21
40
62
83
50.0
25
49
76
102
65.0
31
62
97
131
85.0
40
80
124
168
100.0
46
92
144
196
150.0
66
135
212
288
250.0
105
218
344
469
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
8
15
22
29
15.0
9
17
25
34
20.0
11
21
33
43
25.0
13
26
39
53
33.0
16
32
50
67
40.0
19
38
59
80
50.0
23
46
72
98
Table XVI—Lot Single Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=13]
Number of sample units
6
13
21
29
Acceptance numbers—quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective—AQL
0.65
1
3
4
5
1.0
2
4
6
7
1.5
3
5
8
10
2.5
4
8
11
15
4.0
6
11
16
22
5.0
7
13
20
26
6.5
9
17
25
33
8.5
11
21
31
41
10.0
12
24
36
48
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
15
29
44
58
15.0
17
34
51
69
20.0
22
43
67
90
25.0
27
53
82
110
33.0
34
68
106
143
40.0
40
81
126
171
50.0
49
99
156
211
65.0
62
127
199
271
85.0
80
163
257
350
100.0
92
190
300
409
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
15
28
43
58
15.0
17
33
51
68
20.0
21
42
65
88
25.0
26
51
80
108
33.0
32
66
103
139
40.0
38
78
123
166
50.0
46
95
150
204
Table XVII—Lot Single Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=25]
Number of sample units
6
13
21
29
Acceptance numbers—quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective—AQL
0.4
2
3
5
6
0.65
3
5
7
8
1.0
4
6
9
12
1.5
5
9
13
16
2.5
7
13
19
25
4.0
10
19
29
38
5.0
12
23
35
46
6.5
15
29
44
58
8.5
19
36
56
74
10.0
21
42
64
86
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
26
51
79
106
15.0
30
60
93
126
20.0
39
78
122
165
25.0
48
96
150
203
33.0
61
124
195
265
40.0
73
149
234
318
50.0
89
183
289
394
65.0
114
235
372
507
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
25
50
78
105
15.0
30
59
92
125
20.0
38
77
120
163
25.0
46
94
148
200
33.0
59
121
191
260
40.0
70
145
228
312
50.0
85
177
281
385
Table XVIII—Lot Single Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=50]
Number of sample units
6
13
21
29
Acceptance numbers—quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective—AQL
0.15
1
3
4
5
0.25
2
4
5
7
0.4
3
5
8
10
0.65
4
8
11
15
1.0
6
11
16
21
1.5
8
15
22
29
2.5
12
23
35
46
4.0
18
34
53
70
5.0
21
42
64
86
6.5
27
53
82
110
8.5
34
67
105
142
10.0
39
78
122
165
Quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units only
12.5
48
96
150
203
15.0
56
114
178
242
20.0
73
149
234
318
25.0
89
183
289
394
33.0
115
239
377
514
40.0
138
287
454
620
50.0
170
355
563
769
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
47
95
149
202
15.0
55
112
177
240
20.0
71
147
231
315
25.0
87
181
286
390
33.0
112
234
372
508
40.0
134
281
446
611
50.0
164
346
552
756
Table XIX—Lot Single Sampling Plans
[Standard sample unit size=100]
Number of sample units
6
13
21
29
Acceptance numbers—quality levels expressed as defects per 100 units or percent defective—AQL
0.1
2
3
5
6
0.15
3
4
6
8
0.25
4
6
9
12
0.4
5
9
13
17
0.65
7
13
20
26
1.0
10
19
29
38
1.5
14
27
41
54
2.5
21
42
64
86
4.0
32
64
99
134
5.0
39
78
122
165
6.5
49
99
156
211
8.5
63
128
200
272
10.0
73
149
234
318
12.5
89
183
289
394
15.0
105
218
344
469
20.0
138
287
454
620
25.0
170
355
563
769
33.0
221
463
736
1,008
40.0
266
558
888
1,216
50.0
329
692
1,103
1,513
Quality levels expressed as percent defective only
12.5
88
182
287
392
15.0
104
216
342
467
20.0
136
284
450
615
25.0
167
351
558
763
33.0
217
457
728
999
40.0
260
549
877
1,203
50.0
320
680
1,088
1,494
[43 FR 10542, Mar. 14, 1978. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.39
Issuance of certificate of sampling.
Each inspector and each licensed sampler shall prepare and sign a certificate of sampling to cover the samples drawn by the respective person, except that in-plant inspectors who inspect the samples which they have drawn need not prepare a certificate of sampling. One copy of each certificate of sampling prepared shall be retained by the licensed sampler and the original and all other copies thereof shall be disposed of in accordance with the instructions of the Administrator.
[51 FR 20445, June 5, 1986]
§ 52.40
Identification of lots sampled.
Each lot from which officially drawn samples are selected shall be marked in such manner as may be prescribed by the Administrator, if such lots do not otherwise possess suitable identification.

# Fees and Charges
§ 52.41
Payment of fees and charges.
Fees and charges for any inspection service shall be paid by the interested party making the application for such service, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the regulations in this part, and if so required by the inspection service, an advance of funds prior to rendering inspection service in an amount suitable to the Administrator, or a surety bond suitable to the Administrator, shall be required as a guarantee of payment for the services rendered. All fees and charges for any inspection service performed pursuant to the regulations in this part shall be paid by check, draft, or money order payable to the United States Department of Agriculture. Remittance shall be sent to the address specified on the bill for collection on or before the due date to avoid a late payment charge.
[51 FR 20445, June 5, 1986]
§ 52.42
Schedule of fees.
(a) For each calendar year, AMS will calculate the rate for services, per hour per program employee using the following formulas:
(1)
Regular rate.
The total AMS inspection program personnel direct pay
divided by direct hours, which is then multiplied by the next year's percentage of cost of living increase, plus the benefits rate, plus the operating rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate. If applicable, travel expenses may also be added to the cost of providing the service.
(2)
Overtime rate.
The total AMS inspection program personnel direct pay divided by direct hours, which is then multiplied by the next year's percentage of cost of living increase and then multiplied by 1.5 plus the benefits rate, plus the operating rate, plus an allowance for bad debt. If applicable, travel expenses may also be added to the cost of providing the service.
(3)
Holiday rate.
The total AMS inspection program personnel direct pay divided by direct hours which is then multiplied by the next year's percentage of cost of living increase and then multiplied by 2, plus benefits rate, plus the operating rate, plus an allowance for bad debt. If applicable, travel expenses may also be added to the cost of providing the service.
(b) For each calendar year, based on previous fiscal year/historical actual costs, AMS will calculate the benefits, operating, and allowance for bad debt components of the regular, overtime and holiday rates as follows:
(1)
Benefits rate.
The total AMS inspection program direct benefits costs divided by the total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked, which is then multiplied by the next calendar year's percentage cost of living increase. Some examples of direct benefits are health insurance, retirement, life insurance, and Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) retirement basic and matching contributions.
(2)
Operating rate.
The total AMS inspection program operating costs divided by total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked, which is then multiplied by the percentage of inflation.
(3)
Allowance for bad debt rate.
Total AMS inspection program allowance for bad debt divided by total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked.
(c) The calendar year cost of living expenses and percentage of inflation factors used in the formulas in this section are based on the most recent Office of Management and Budget's Presidential Economic Assumptions.
[79 FR 67321, Nov. 13, 2014]
§ 52.43
Fees to be charged and collected for sampling when performed by a licensed sampler.
Such sampling fees as are specifically prescribed by the Administrator in connection with licensing of the particular sampler will be assessed and collected from the applicant by the office of inspection serving the area where services are performed:
Provided,
That if the employee is an employee of a state, the appropriate authority of the state may make the collection.
[48 FR 12326, Mar. 24, 1983]
§ 52.44
Inspection fees when charges for sampling have been collected.
For any lot of processed products from which a sample in drawn by a licensed sampler and the applicable sampling fee is collected, as provided in § 52.43, the fees for the other inspection services with respect to such lot shall not include charges for sampling.
[48 FR 12326, Mar. 24, 1983]
§ 52.45
Inspection fees when charges for sampling have not been collected.
For any lot of processed products from which a sample is drawn by a licensed sampler and the sampling fee is not collected by the appropriate authority as provided in § 52.43, the fees and charges for inspection services with respect to such lot shall be the applicable fees and charges prescribed in § 52.42.
[48 FR 12326, Mar. 24, 1983]
§ 52.46
Fee for appeal inspection.
The fee to be charged for an appeal inspection shall be at the rates prescribed in this part for other inspection services:
Provided,
That, if the result of any appeal inspection made for any applicant other than the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, discloses that a material error was made in the inspection on which the appeal is made, no inspection fee shall be assessed.
§ 52.47
Changing types of service.
If an applicant cancels a new year-round contract before a full year has elapsed, the applicant shall be charged the difference between the year-round rate and less than year-round rate for the full period the year-round contract was in effect. If an applicant cancels a year-round contract after a full year or more of uninterrupted service, the fee remains at the year-round rate.
[59 FR 41378, Aug. 12, 1994]
§ 52.48
Charges for plant survey and inspection.
The fees to be charged for a plant survey and inspection shall be at the rates prescribed in §§ 52.42 and 52.51.
[72 FR 10037, Mar. 7, 2007]
§ 52.49
Charges for copies of inspection documents and/or inspection data.
If the applicant for inspection service requests additional copies of inspection documents and/or inspection data referable to the processed product covered thereby, the applicant may obtain such copies from the supervisor in the office of inspection serving the area where the service was performed at a charge of
1/2
hour per copy in accordance with the rate in § 52.42: Provided, that no charge shall be made for one copy if requested at the time of the original request for inspection. Inspection certificates issued in accordance with § 52.21 may be supplied to any financially interested party at a charge of
1/2
hour per certificate for each seven (7), or fewer copies in accordance with the rate in § 52.42.
[54 FR 50732, Dec. 11, 1989]
§ 52.50
Travel and other expenses.
Charges may be assessed to cover the cost of travel time incurred in connection with the performance of any inspection service, including appeal inspections, as described in § 52.42. This includes time spent waiting for transportation as well as time spent traveling, but not to exceed eight hours of travel time for any one person for any one day: And provided further, that if travel is by common carrier, no hourly charge may be made for travel time outside the employee's official work hours.
[79 FR 67321, Nov. 13, 2014]
§ 52.51
Charges for inspection services on a contract basis.
(a) The Administrator may enter into contracts with applicants to perform continuous inspection services or other types of inspection services pursuant to the regulations in this part and other requirements as prescribed by the Administrator in such contract, and the charges for such inspection service provided in such contracts shall be based on such basis as will reimburse the Agricultural Marketing Service of the Department for the full cost of rendering such inspection service as described in § 52.42.
(b) The Administrator may enter into a written memorandum of understanding or contract, whichever may be appropriate, with any administrative agency charged with the administration of a marketing agreement or a marketing order effective pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) for the making of inspections pursuant to said agreement or order on such basis as will reimburse the Agricultural Marketing Service of the Department for the full cost of rendering such inspection service based on the formulas in § 52.42. Likewise, the Administrator may enter into a written memorandum of understanding or contract, whichever may be appropriate, with an administrative agency charged with an administration of a similar program operated pursuant to the laws of any State.
(c) Charges for year-round in-plant inspection services on a contract basis will be billed to the applicant monthly for all hours worked with a minimum of 40 hours per week for each inspector assigned to perform the inspection services. Charges for work performed in excess of an employee's regular work schedule will be calculated as described in § 52.42(a)(2).
(d) Charges for less than year-round in-plant inspection services (four or more consecutive 40 hour weeks) on a contract basis will be billed to the applicant monthly for all hours with a minimum of 40 hours for each inspector
assigned to perform the inspection services and will be calculated based on the formulas in § 52.42.
(e) No Member of, or Delegate to Congress, or Resident Commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or part of any contract provided for in this section or to any benefit that may arise therefrom, but this provision shall not be construed to extend to such contract if made with a corporation for its general benefit, and shall not extend to any benefits that may accrue from the contract to a Member of, or Delegate to Congress, or a Resident Commissioner in his capacity as a farmer.
[38 FR 25168, Sept. 12, 1973. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and further redesignated at 54 FR 50732, Dec. 11, 1989]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 52.51, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Miscellaneous
§ 52.53
Approved identification.
(a)
General.
Use of the approved identification marks described and illustrated in Figures 1 through 10 of this section is restricted to processed products that:
(1) Are clean, safe, and wholesome;
(2) Have been produced or packed in an approved plant.
(3) Are truthfully and accurately labeled.
(4) When graded against a U.S. grade standard, meet the quality requirements for U.S Grade C or better;
(5) Meet applicable fill weight and/or drained weight, Brix or other characteristics of a commodity related to market value;
(6) Have been certified, or have been inspected and are eligible for certification, by an inspector; and, in addition, meet the specific requirements stated in (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(7) Labels and advertising material containing or referring to approved identification must be approved by USDA inspection service prior to use.
(b)
Inspection
(
Continuous
)
grade and inspection marks.
The official marks approved for use by plants operating under USDA continuous inspection service contracts shall be similar in form and design to the examples in Figures 1 through 10 of this section:
Provided,
That the official marks illustrated by figures 8 and 9 are limited to products packed by plants operating under an approved Quality Assurance type of inspection contract:
And provided further,
That the inspection marks illustrated in figures 1 through 4 may only be used on products packed by plants operating under USDA continuous inspection.
EC02SE91.048
EC02SE91.049
EC02SE91.050
EC02SE91.051
(c)
In-plant inspection (other than continuous) grade and inspection marks.
The official marks approved for use by plants operating under USDA inspection service contracts (other than continuous) requiring a resident inspector shall be limited to those similar in form and design to the examples in Figures 5 through 14 of this section; Provided: That the official marks illustrated by Figures 9 and 10 are limited to products packed by plants operating under an approved Quality Assurance type of an inspection contract.
EC02SE91.052
EC02SE91.053
EC02SE91.054
EC02SE91.055
EC02SE91.056
EC02SE91.057
(d)
“Approved plant-lot inspection” grade and inspection marks.
Processed products that are produced in an approved plant as defined in § 52.2 and inspected and certified by an inspector on a lot basis may be labeled with an official mark as defined in § 52.3 when adequate control and use is approved. The use of official marks for this type of service is restricted to grade marks (with or without plain shield) and/or the statement “Inspected by the U.S. Department of Agriculture” (with or without plain shield). The official marks shall be similar in form and design as illustrated in figures 11 through
14. Failure to have all lots bearing official marks either inspected and certified or certified as produced in an approved plant shall cause the debarment of the user from receiving subsequent services, and such other actions as provided for in the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946.
EC02SE91.060
EC02SE91.061
EC02SE91.062
EC02SE91.063
(e)
Sampling marks.
Processed products which have been sampled for inspection as provided in this part may, at the option of the Department, be identified by an authorized representative of the Department. The products are identified by stamping the container(s) comprising such lot(s), with an official “sampling mark”, similar in form and design to the example in figure 15 of this section. The “sampling marks” will identify products officially sampled by a particular field office.
Such mark will include a code identifying the field office performing the sampling.
EC02SE91.058
(f)
Removal of labels bearing approved grade or inspection marks.
(1) At the time a lot of processed products bearing approved grade or inspection marks is found to be mislabeled, the processor shall separate and retain such lot for relabeling. Removal and replacement of labels shall be done, under the supervision of a USDA inspector, within the time specified by the Administrator or as may be mutually agreed by the processor and the Administrator.
(2) The processor shall be held accountable to the Department for all mislabeled products until the products have been properly labeled.
(3) Clearance for the release of the relabeled product shall be obtained, by the processor, from the inspector.
(g)
Licensing and identification of certain official devices.
The Administrator may issue licenses permitting the manufacture, identification, and sale of any official device designated as a USDA color standard, defect guide or other similar aid under such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Administrator. Licenses shall be available to all persons meeting conditions prescribed by the Administrator, shall be nonexclusive, and shall be recoverable for cause. No person shall manufacture, identify, distribute or sell any such official device except at the direction of or under license from the Administrator. Such official devices may be marked, tagged or otherwise designated with the prefix “USDA” together with other identifying words or symbols, as prescribed by the license.
(h)
Prohibited uses of approved identification.
Except as specified in this section, no label or advertising material used upon, or in conjunction, with a processed product, as defined by these Regulations, shall bear a brand name, trademark, product name, company name, or any other descriptive material that incorporates, resembles, simulates, or alludes to, any official U.S. Department of Agriculture certificate of quality or loading, grade mark, grade statement (except honey and maple syrup which may bear such grade mark or statement), continuous inspection mark, continuous inspection statement, sampling mark or sampling statement, or combinations of one or more thereof.
(i)
Disposition of labels bearing approved grade or inspection marks when a contract is cancelled.
Upon cancellation of a contract, labels bearing approved grade or inspection marks shall remain under the control of the inspection service. The inspection service will approve disposition of said labels for destruction, sale or transfer to another approved plant, remove or obliterate the grade or inspection mark, or other action as may be agreed upon by all interested parties.
[38 FR 25169, Sept. 12, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 48934, Oct. 20, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981; 48 FR 12326, Mar. 24, 1983; 51 FR 20446, June 5, 1986; 60 FR 3533, Jan. 18, 1995]
§ 52.54
Debarment of services.
(a) The following acts or practices, or the causing thereof, may be deemed sufficient cause for the debarment, by the Administrator, of any person, including any agents, officers, subsidiaries, or affiliates of such person, from any or all benefits of the Act for a specified period. The Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings Instituted by the Secretary Under Various Statutes set forth in §§ 1.130 through 1.151 of this title and the Supplemental Rules of Practice in
part 50 of this chapter shall be applicable to such debarment action.
(1)
Fraud or misrepresentation.
Any misrepresentation or deceptive or fraudulent practice or act found to be made or committed in connection with:
(i) The making or filing of an application for any inspection service;
(ii) The submission of samples for inspection;
(iii) The use of any inspection report or any inspection certificate, or appeal inspection certificate issued under the regulations in this part;
(iv) The use of the words “Packed under continuous inspection of the U.S. Department of Agriculture,” any legend signifying that the product has been officially inspected, any statement of grade or words of similar import in the labeling or advertising of any processed product;
(v) The use of a facsimile form which simulates in whole or in part any official U.S. certificate for the purpose of purporting to evidence the U.S. grade of any processed product.
(2)
Willful violation of the regulations in this subpart.
Willful violation of the provisions of this part of the Act.
(i) Country of origin labeling for packed honey. The use of a label or advertising material on, or in conjunction with, packaged honey that bears any official certificate of quality, grade mark or statement, continuous inspection mark or statement, sampling mark or statement, or any combination of the certificates, marks, or statements of the Department of Agriculture is hereby prohibited unless there appears legibly and permanently in close proximity (such as on the same side(s) or surface(s)) to the certificate, mark, or statement, and in at least a comparable size, the one or more names of the one or more countries of origin of the lot or container of honey, preceded by the words ‘Product of’ or other words of similar meaning.
(A) A violation of the requirements of this section may be deemed by the Secretary to be sufficient cause for debarment from the benefits of the regulations governing inspection and certification only with respect to honey.
(3)
Interfering with an inspector, inspector's aid, or licensed sampler.
Any interference with, obstruction of, or attempted interference with, or attempted obstruction of any inspector, inspector's aide, or licensed sampler in the performance of his duties by intimidation, threat, assault, bribery, or any other means—real or imagined.
[76 FR 253, Jan. 4, 2011]
§ 52.55
Political activity.
All inspectors and licensed samplers are forbidden, during the period of their respective appointments or licenses, to take an active part in political management or in political campaigns. Political activities in city, county, State, or national elections, whether primary or regular, or in behalf of any party or candidate, or any measure to be voted upon, are prohibited. This applies to all appointees or licensees, including, but not limited to, temporary and cooperative employees and employees on leave of absence with or without pay. Wilful violation of this section will constitute grounds for dismissal in the case of appointees and revocation of licenses in the case of licensees.
§ 52.56
Purchase of commodity samples for review.
Employees are authorized to purchase commodity samples for review. Employees must pay and obtain receipts for such purchases and keep receipts subject to inspection by supervisory or other authorized Department employees.
[48 FR 12330, Mar. 24, 1983]
§ 52.57
Compliance with other laws.
None of the requirements in the regulations in this part shall excuse failure to comply with any Federal, State, county, or municipal laws applicable to the operation of food processing establishments and to processed food products.
§ 52.58
Identification.
Each inspector and licensed sampler shall have in his possession at all times and present upon request, while on duty, the means of identification furnished by the Department to such person.
§ 52.59
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB control no. 0581-0123.
(44 U.S.C. Ch. 35)
[49 FR 23826, June 8, 1984]

# Requirements for Plants To Be Approved and for Plants Using Contract In-Plant Inspection Services
1
1
Compliance with the above requirements does not excuse failure to comply with all applicable sanitary rules and regulations of city, county, State, Federal, or other agencies having jurisdiction over such plants and operations.

# Source:
Sections 52.81 through 52.83 appear at 38 FR 25170, Sept. 12, 1973, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.
§ 52.81
Plant survey.
Prior to a plant being approved, or the inauguration of in-plant inspection services, and at such intervals as may be deemed necessary or appropriate, the Administrator will make, or cause to be made, a survey and inspection of the plant where such inspection services are to be performed to determine whether the plant and methods of operation are suitable and adequate for the performance of such service in accordance with:
(a) The regulations in this part, including, but not limited to, the requirements contained in §§ 52.81 through 52.83; and
(b) The terms and provisions of any contract pursuant to which the service is to be performed:
Provided,
That, such survey(s) shall be repeated at least yearly.
§ 52.82
Basis of survey and plant inspection.
The plant survey and inspection will be based on the Regulations issued under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act—Human Foods; Good Manufacturing Practice (Sanitation) in Manufacture, Processing, Packing, or Holding (21 CFR part 110)—as may be modified or augmented by the Federal Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare or the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service.
§ 52.83
Reporting results of the plant survey and inauguration of inspection services.
(a) Results of the plant survey shall be reported in writing to a designated plant official.
(b) When the plant meets the requirements for the survey, inspection services may be inaugurated at a time mutually satisfactory to the plant management and USDA.
(c) When the plant fails the requirements of the survey, contract services shall be withheld until corrective action is completed to the satisfaction of the USDA.

# Subpart B—United States Standards for Grades of Canned Red Tart Pitted Cherries

# Source:
39 FR 13963, Apr. 18, 1974, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Identity and Grades
§ 52.771
Identity.
Canned red tart pitted cherries
is the product represented as defined in the standard of identity for canned cherries (21 CFR 145.125(a)), issued pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and packed in one of the liquid media specified in § 52.773; and is sealed in a hermetically sealed container and so processed by heat as to prevent spoilage.
§ 52.772
Grades.
(a) “U.S. Grade A” (or “U.S. Fancy”) is the quality of canned red tart pitted cherries that have at least the following attributes:
(1) At least a reasonably good color;
(2) Practically free from pits;
(3) Practically free from defects;
(4) Good character;
(5) Normal flavor and odor; and
(6) Score not less than 90 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
Canned red tart pitted cherries of this grade may contain not more than eight cherries per sample unit that are less than
9/16
inch (14 mm) in diameter.
(b) “U.S. Grade B” (or “U.S. Choice”) is the quality of canned red tart pitted cherries that have at least the following attributes:
(1) Reasonably good color;
(2) Reasonably free from pits;
(3) Reasonably free from defects;
(4) Reasonably good character;
(5) Normal flavor and odor; and
(6) Score not less than 80 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
Canned red tart pitted cherries of this grade may contain not more than 15 cherries per sample unit that are less than
9/16
inch (14 mm) in diameter.
(c) “U.S. Grade C” (or “U.S. Standard”) is the quality of canned red tart pitted cherries that have at least the following attributes:
(1) Fairly good color;
(2) Fairly free from pits;
(3) Fairly free from defects;
(4) Fairly good character;
(5) Normal flavor and odor; and
(6) Score not less than 70 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
There is no size requirement for canned red tart pitted cherries of this grade.
(d) “Substandard” is the quality of canned red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements of “U.S. Grade C.”

# Liquid Media and Brix Measurements
§ 52.773
Liquid media and Brix measurements.
(a) Brix measurement requirements for the liquid media in canned red tart pitted cherries are not incorporated in the grades of the finished product since sirup, or any other liquid medium, as such, is not a factor of quality for the purpose of the grades. The designation of liquid packing media and Brix measurements, where applicable, are as follows:
Designations
Brix measurements
“Extra heavy sirup;” or “Extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water;” or “Extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s).”
28° or more but not more than 45°.
“Heavy sirup;” or “Heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water;” or “Heavily sweetened fruit juice(s).”
22° or more but less than 28°.
“Light sirup;” or “Lightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water;” or “Lightly sweetened fruit juice(s).”
18° or more but less than 22.
“Slightly sweetened water;” or “Slightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water;” or “Slightly sweetened fruit juice(s).”
Less than 18°.
“In water”
Not applicable.
“In fruit juice(s) and water.”
Do.
“In fruit juice(s)”
Do.
(b) The densities of the packing media, as listed in this section, are measured on the refractometer, expressed as percent by weight sucrose (degrees Brix) with correction for temperature to the equivalent at 20 °C. (68 °F.), but without correction for invert sugars or other substances. The Brix measurement of the packing media may be determined by any other method which gives equivalent results.
(c) Brix determination is made on the packing media 15 days or more after the cherries are canned or on the blended homogenized slurry of the comminuted entire contents of the container if canned for less than 15 days.
[39 FR 13963, Apr. 18, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 15020, Apr. 9, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Fill of Container
§ 52.774
Fill of container.
(a)
FDA requirements.
Canned red tart pitted cherries shall meet the fill of container requirements as set forth in the regulations of the Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 145.125(c)).
(b)
Recommended minimum drained weights
—(1)
General.
The minimum drained weight recommendations for the various container sizes and types of packing media as listed in Table I of this section are not incorporated in the grades of the finished product since drained weight, as such, is not a factor of quality for the purpose of these grades.
(2)
Definitions.
Sample average—Average of all the drained weights of the sample containers representing a lot.
X
d
—A specified minimum sample average drained weight.
LL—Lower limit for individual container drained weight.
(3)
Method for ascertaining drained weight.
The drained weight of canned red tart pitted cherries is determined by emptying the contents of the container upon a U.S. Standard No. 8 circular sieve of proper diameter containing eight meshes to the inch (0.0937 inch (2.3 mm), ±3 percent, square openings) so as to distribute the product evenly over the sieve. Without shifting the product, incline the sieve at an angle of 17° to 20° to facilitate drainage and allow to drain for two minutes. The weight of drained cherries is the weight of the sieve and product less the weight of the dry sieve. A sieve eight inches in diameter is used for No. 3 size containers (404 × 414) and smaller, and a sieve 12 inches in diameter is used for containers larger than No. 3 size containers.
(4)
Compliance with recommended minimum drained weights.
A lot of canned red tart pitted cherries is considered as meeting the minimum drained weight recommendations when the following criteria are met:
(i) The sample average meets the specified minimum sample average drained weight (designated as “X
d
” in Table I); and
(ii) The number of sample containers which fail to meet the minimum drained weight for individual containers (designated as “LL” in Table I) does not exceed the applicable acceptance number specified in Table II.
(c)
Recommended fill weights
—(1)
General.
The minimum fill weight recommendations for the various container sizes in Table III of this section are not incorporated in the grades of the finished product since fill weight, as such, is not a factor of quality for the purpose of these grades.
Table I—Recommended Minimum Drained Weights for Canned Red Tart Pitted Cherries
Container designation
Packed in water or cherry juice (ounces)
LL
Xd
Packed in any sirup or slightly sweetened water (ounces)
LL
Xd
No. 303 (303 × 406)
10.7
11.0
9.9
10.2
No. 303 Cylinder (303 × 509)
14.0
14.4
12.7
13.1
No. 2 (307 × 409)
13.1
13.5
12.3
12.7
No. 10 (603 × 700)
71.2
72.0
69.4
70.2
Table II—Single Sampling Plans and Acceptance Numbers
Sample Size (No. of sample containers)
3
6
13
21
29
38
48
60
Acceptance numbers
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
(2)
Definitions.
Subgroup
A group of sample containers representing a portion of a sample.
X′
min
A specified minimum lot average fill weight.
LWL
x
Lower warning limit for subgroup averages.
LRL
x
Lower reject limit for subgroup averages.
LWL
Lower warning limit for individual fill weight measurements.
LRL
Lower reject limit for individual fill weight measurements.
R′
A specified average range value.
R
max
A specified maximum range for subgroups.
(3)
Method for ascertaining fill weight.
The fill weight of canned red tart pitted cherries is determined in accordance with the U.S. Standards for Inspection by Variable and the U.S. Standards for Determination of Fill Weights.
(4)
Compliance with recommended fill weights.
Compliance with the recommended fill weights for canned red tart pitted cherries shall be in accordance with the U.S. Standards for Inspection by Variables and the U.S. Standards for Determination of Fill Weights.
Table III—Recommended Fill Weight Values for Canned Red Tart Pitted Cherries
Container designation
Fill weight values in ounces
X′
min
LWL
x
LRL
x
LWL
LRL
R′
R
max
Sampling allowance code
No. 303
12.9
12.6
12.4
12.2
11.8
0.80
1.70
F
No. 303 Cylinder
16.8
16.4
16.2
15.9
15.4
1.10
2.20
H
No. 2
15.8
15.4
15.2
14.9
14.4
1.10
2.20
H
No. 10
86.7
85.9
85.5
85.0
84.1
2.00
4.20
P

# Sample Unit Size
§ 52.775
Sample unit size.
Compliance with requirements for the size and the various quality factors is based on the following sample unit sizes for the applicable factor:
(a) Size, color, pits, and character—20 ounces of drained cherries.
(b) Defects (other than harmless extraneous material)—100 cherries.
(c) Harmless extraneous material—The total contents of each container in the sample.

# Factors of Quality
§ 52.776
Ascertaining the grade of a sample unit.
(a)
General.
The grade of a sample unit of canned red tart pitted cherries is ascertained by considering the factor of flavor and odor of the product and the requirement for size (in U.S. Grade A and U.S. Grade B) which are not scored; the ratings for the factors of color, freedom from pits, defects, and character, which are scored; and the limiting rules which may be applicable.
(b)
Factors rated by score points.
The relative importance of each factor which is scored is expressed numerically on the scale of 100. The maximum number of points that may be given each factor is:
Factors
Points
Color
20
Freedom from pits
20
Defects
30
Character
30
Total score
100
(c)
Definition.
“Normal flavor and odor” means that the flavor and odor are characteristic of canned red tart pitted cherries and that the product is free from objectionable flavors and objectionable odors of any kind.
§ 52.777
Ascertaining the rating for the factors which are scored.
The essential variations within each factor which is scored are so described that the value may be ascertained for each factor and expressed numerically. The numerical range within each factor which is scored is inclusive (for example, “18 to 20 points” means 18, 19, or 20 points).
§ 52.778
Color.
(a) (
A
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a good color may be given a score of 18 to 20 points. “Good color” means a practically uniform color that is bright and typical of canned red tart pitted cherries which have been prepared and processed from properly ripened cherries.
(b) (
B
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a reasonably good color may be given a score of 16 or 17 points. “Reasonably good color” means a reasonably uniform color, typical of canned red tart pitted cherries which have been properly prepared and processed and which color may range from a slight yellowish-red color to a slightly mottled reddish brown.
(c) (
C
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a fairly good color may be given a score of 14 or 15 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good color” means a fairly uniform color typical of canned red tart pitted cherries which have been properly processed and which color may range from a brownish cast to mottled shades of brown.
(d) (
SStd.
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the color requirements for U.S. Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 15 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.779
Freedom from pits.
(a)
General.
The factor of freedom from pits refers to the incidence of pits and pit fragments.
(b)
Definitions.
(1) A
pit,
for the purposes of the allowances in this section, is a whole cherry pit or portions of pits computed as follows:
(i) A single piece of pit shell, whether or not within or attached to a whole cherry, that is larger than one-half pit shell is considered as one pit;
(ii) A single piece of pit shell, whether or not within or attached to a whole cherry, that is not larger than one-half pit shell is considered as one-half pit;
(iii) Pieces of pit shell, within or attached to a whole cherry, when their combined size is larger than one-half pit shell are considered as one pit; and
(iv) Pieces of pit shell, within or attached to a whole cherry, when their combined size is not larger than one-half pit shell are considered as one-half pit.
(2)
Drained cherries
means pitted cherries that have been drained of packing medium by the method prescribed in this subpart.
(c) (
A
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that are practically free from pits may be given a score of 18 to 20 points. “Practically free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present in the drained cherries does not exceed the allowances for this classification as set forth in Table IV.
(d) (
B
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that are reasonably free from pits may be given a score of 16 or 17 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present does not exceed the allowances for this classification as set forth in Table IV.
(e) (
C
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that are fairly free from pits may be given a score of 14 or 15 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present in the drained cherries does not exceed the allowances for this classification as set forth in Table IV.
(f) (
SStd.
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 13 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.780
Defects.
(a)
General.
The factor of defects refers to the degree of freedom from harmless extraneous material, mutilated cherries, and cherries blemished by scab, hail injury, discoloration, scar tissue, or by other means.
(1)
Cherry
means a whole cherry, whether or not pitted, or portions of such cherries which in the aggregate approximate the average size of the cherries.
(2)
Harmless extraneous material
means any vegetable substance (including, but not being limited to, a leaf or a stem, and any portions thereof) that is harmless.
(3)
Mutilated cherry
means a cherry that is so pitter-torn or damaged by other means that the entire pit cavity is exposed and the appearance of the cherry is seriously affected.
(4)
Minor blemished cherry
means any cherry blemished with skin discoloration (other than scald) having an aggregate area of a circle
9/32
inch (7 mm) or less in diameter which more than slightly affects the appearance of the cherry but does not extend into the fruit tissue.
(5)
Blemished cherry
means any cherry blemished by skin discoloration (other than scald) which in the aggregate exceeds the area of a circle
9/32
inch (7 mm) in diameter. A cherry affected by skin discoloration extending into the fruit tissue or by scab, hail injury, scar tissue, or other abnormality, regardless of size, is considered a blemished cherry.
(b) (
A
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that are practically free from defects may be given a score of 27 to 30 points. “Practically free from defects” means that the number of defects that may be present does not exceed the number specified for the type of defects in Table IV.
(c) (
B
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that are reasonably free from defects may be given a score of 24 to 26 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification may not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably free from defects” means that the number of defects that may be present does not exceed the number specified for the type of defects in Table IV.
(d) (
C
)
classification.
If the canned red tart pitted cherries are fairly free from defects, a score of 21 to 23 points may be given. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly free from defects” means that the number of defects that may be present does not exceed the number specified for the type of defects in Table IV.
(e) (
SStd.
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements for Grade C for any reason may be given a score of 0 to 20 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.781
Character.
(a)
General.
The factor of character refers to the physical characteristics of the flesh of the cherries.
(b) (
A
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a good character may be given a score of 27 to 30 points. “Good character” means that the cherries are thick-fleshed and have a firm, tender texture.
(c) (
B
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a reasonably good character may be given a score of 24 to 26 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably good character” means that the cherries may be reasonably thick-fleshed and may be slightly soft.
(d) (
C
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a fairly good character may be given a score of 21 to 23 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good character” means that the cherries may be thin-fleshed, and may be soft but not mushy, or slightly tough but not leathery.
(e) (
SStd.
)
classification.
Canned red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements for U.S. Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 20 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).

# Allowances for Quality Factors
§ 52.782
Allowances for quality factors.
Table IV—Allowances for Quality Factors
Factor
Sample unit size
Maximum number permissible for the respective grade
A
A
B
B
C
C
Pits
20 ozs
Not more than 2 in any sample unit
Sample average 1 per 40 ozs
Not more than 3 in any sample unit
Sample average 1 per 30 ozs
4 or more in any sample unit
Sample average 1 per 20 ozs.
Defects:
100 cherries
Total—multilated, plus minor blemished plus blemished.
10
15
20
of which
Blemished—limited to
3
7
15
Harmless extraneous material
Total contents
Average 1 piece per 60 oz. net contents
Average 1.5 pieces per 60 oz. net contents
Average 3 piece per 60 oz. net contents

# Lot Compliance
§ 52.783
Ascertaining the grade of a lot.
The grade of a lot of canned red tart pitted cherries covered by these standards is determined by the procedures set forth in the Regulations Governing Inspection and Certification of Processed Fruits and Vegetables, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products (§§ 52.1 to 52.87).

# Score Sheet
§ 52.784
Score sheet for canned red tart pitted cherries.
Size and kind of container
Container mark or identification
Label
Net weight (ounces)
Vacuum (inches)
Drained weight (ounces)
Sirup designation (extra heavy, heavy, etc.)
Brix measurement
Size
1
Factors
Score points
Color
20
(A)
18-20
(B)
16-17
(C)
2
14-15
(SStd.)
2
0-13
Freedom from pits
20
(A)
(b)
(C)
(SStd.)
18-20
2
16-17
2
14-15
2
0-13
Freedom from defects
30
(A)
(B)
(C)
(SStd.)
27-30
2
24-26
2
21-23
2
0-20
Character
30
(A)
27-30
(B)
2
24-26
(C)
2
21-23
(SStd.)
2
0-20
Total score
100
Normal flavor
Grade
1
See size limitation for U.S. Grade A and U.S. Grade B.
2
Indicates limiting rule.

# Subpart C—United States Standards for Grades of Frozen Red Tart Pitted Cherries

# Source:
39 FR 23235, June 27, 1974, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Product Description and Grades
§ 52.801
Product description.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries is the food prepared from properly matured cherries of the domestic (Prunus cerasus) red sour varietal group which have been washed, pitted, sorted, and properly drained; may be packed with or without a nutritive sweetened packing medium or any other substance permitted under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and are frozen and stored at temperatures necessary for the preservation of the product.
§ 52.802
Grades of frozen red tart pitted cherries.
(a) “U.S. Grade A” (or “U.S. Fancy”) is the quality of frozen red tart pitted cherries of which not more than five (5) cherries per sample unit may be less than
9/16
inch (14 mm) in diameter, and that:
(1) Possess a good red color;
(2) Are practically free from pits;
(3) Are practically free from defects;
(4) Have a good character;
(5) Possess a normal flavor; and
(6) Score not less than 90 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
(b) “U.S. Grade B” (or “U.S. Choice”) is the quality of frozen red tart pitted cherries of which not more than ten (10) cherries per sample unit may be
less than
9/16
inch (14 mm) in diameter, and that:
(1) Possess a reasonably good red color;
(2) Are reasonably free from pits;
(3) Are reasonably free from defects;
(4) Have a reasonably good character:
(5) Possess a normal flavor; and
(6) Score not less than 80 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
(c) “U.S. Grade C” (or “U.S. Standard”) is the quality of frozen red tart pitted cherries that:
(1) Possess a fairly good red color;
(2) Are fairly free from pits;
(3) Are fairly free from defects;
(4) Have a fairly good character;
(5) Possess a normal flavor; and
(6) Score not less than 70 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
(d) “Substandard” is the quality of frozen red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C.

# Sample Unit Size
§ 52.803
Sample unit size.
Compliance with requirements for size and the various quality factors is based on the following sample unit sizes for the applicable factor:
(a) Pits, character, and harmless extraneous material—20 ounces of drained cherries.
(b) Size, color, and defects (other than harmless extraneous material)—100 cherries.

# Factors of Quality
§ 52.804
Ascertaining the grade of a sample unit.
(a) The grade of frozen red tart pitted cherries is determined immediately after thawing to the extent that the cherries may be separated easily and the cherries are free from ice and solidified packing media. The grade is determined by considering in addition to the requirements of the respective grade (including the requirement of the size in U.S. Grade A and U.S. Grade B), the respective ratings of the factors of color, pits, absence of defects, character, the total score, and the limiting rules which may be applicable.
(b) The relative importance of each factor is expressed numerically on a scale of 100. The maximum number of points that may be given each factor is:
Factors
Points
Color
30
Freedom from pits
20
Freedom from defects
20
Character
30
Total score
100
(c)
Normal flavor
means that the flavor is characteristic of frozen red tart pitted cherries and that the product is free from objectionable flavors of any kind.
§ 52.805
Ascertaining the rating for each factor.
The essential variations within each factor are so described that the value may be ascertained for each factor and expressed numerically. The numerical range for the rating of each factor is inclusive (for example, “27 to 30 points” means 27, 28, 29 or 30 points).
§ 52.806
Color.
(a)
(A) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that possess a good red color may be given a score of 27 to 30 points. “Good red color” means that the frozen cherries possess a color that is bright and typical of properly ripened cherries and that is practically uniform in that the number of cherries that vary markedly from this color due to oxidation, improper processing, or other causes, or that are undercolored, does not exceed the number specified in Table I.
(b)
(B) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that possess a reasonably good red color may be given a score of 24 to 26 points. Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably good red color” means that the cherries possess a color that is reasonably bright and typical of properly ripened cherries and that is reasonably uniform in that the number of cherries that vary markedly from this color due to oxidation, improper processing, or other causes, or that are
undercolored, does not exceed the number specified in Table I.
(c)
(C) classification.
If the frozen red tart pitted cherries possess a fairly good red color, a score of 21 to 23 points may be given. Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good red color” means that the frozen cherries possess a color that is fairly bright and typical of properly ripened cherries and that is fairly uniform in that the number of cherries that vary markedly from this color due to oxidation, improper processing, or other causes, or that are undercolored, does not exceed the number specified in Table I.
(d)
(SStd.) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 20 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.807
Freedom from pits.
(a)
General.
The factor of freedom from pits refers to the incidence of pits and pit fragments.
(b)
Definitions.
(1) A “pit” for the purpose of the allowances in this subpart is a whole pit or portions of pits computed as follows:
(i) A single piece of pit shell, whether or not within or attached to a whole cherry, that is larger than one-half pit shell is considered as one pit;
(ii) A single piece of pit shell, whether or not within or attached to a whole cherry, that is not larger than one-half pit shell is considered as one-half pit;
(iii) Pieces of pit shell, within or attached to a whole cherry, when their combined size is larger than one-half pit shell are considered as one pit; and
(iv) Pieces of pit shell, within or attached to a whole cherry, when their combined size is not larger than one-half pit shell are considered as one-half pit.
(2)
Drained cherries
means pitted cherries that are substantially free from any adhering sirup, sugar, or other packing medium.
(c)
(A) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that are practically free from pits may be given a score of 18 to 20 points. “Practically free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present does not exceed the allowances for this classification specified in Table I.
(d)
(B) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that are reasonably free from pits may be given a score of 16 or 17 points. Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present does not exceed the number specified in Table I.
(e)
(C) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that are fairly free from pits may be given a score of 14 or 15 points. Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present does not exceed the number specified in Table I.
(f)
(SStd.) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements for U.S. Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 13 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.808
Freedom from defects.
(a)
General.
The factor of freedom from defects refers to the degree of freedom from harmless extraneous material, mutilated cherries, and cherries blemished by scab, hail injury, discoloration, scar tissue, or by other means.
(1)
Cherry
means a whole cherry, whether or not pitted, or portions of such cherries which in the aggregate approximate the average size of the cherries.
(2)
Harmless extraneous material
means any vegetable substance (including, but not being limited to, a leaf or a stem and any portions thereof) that is harmless.
(3)
Mutilated cherry
means a cherry that is so pitter-torn or damaged by other means that the entire pit cavity is exposed and the appearance of the cherry is seriously affected.
(4)
Minor blemished cherry
means any cherry blemished with discoloration (other than scald) having an aggregate area of a circle
9/32
inch (7 mm) or less in diameter which more than slightly affects the appearance of the cherry but does not extend into the fruit tissue.
(5)
Blemished cherry
means any cherry blemished by skin discoloration (other than scald) which in the aggregate exceeds the area of a circle
9/32
inch (7 mm) in diameter. A cherry affected by skin discoloration extending into the fruit tissue or by scab, hail injury, scar tissue, or other abnormality, regardless of size, is considered a blemished cherry.
(b)
(A) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that are practically free from defects may be given a score of 18 to 20 points. “Practically free from defects” means that the number of defects that may be present does not exceed the number specified for the applicable type of defect in Table I.
(c)
(B) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that are reasonably free from defects may be given a score of 16 or 17 points. Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably free from defects” means that the number of defects that may be present does not exceed the number specified for the applicable type of defect in Table I.
(d)
(C) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that are fairly free from defects may be given a score of 14 or 15 points. Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly free from defects” means that the number of defects that may be present does not exceed the number specified for the applicable type of defect in Table I.
(e)
(SStd.) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements for Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 13 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.809
Character.
(a)
General.
The factor of character refers to the physical characteristics of the flesh of the cherries.
(b)
(A) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that have a good character may be given a score of 27 to 30 points. “Good character” means that the cherries are thick-fleshed and have a firm, tender texture.
(c)
(B) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that have a reasonably good character may be given a score of 24 to 26 points. Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably good character” means that the cherries may be reasonably thick-fleshed and slightly soft.
(d)
(C) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that have a fairly good character may be given a score of 21 to 23 points. Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good character” means that the cherries may be thin-fleshed and may be soft but not mushy, or slightly tough but not leathery.
(e)
(SStd.) classification.
Frozen red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements for Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 20 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).

# Allowances for Quality Factors
§ 52.810
Allowances for quality factors.
Table I—Allowances for Quality Factors
Factor
Sample unit size
Maximum number permissible for the respective grade
A
B
C
Color:
Vary markedly or undercolored.
100 cherries
12
18
25.
Pits
20 ozs
Not more than 2 in any sample unit. Sample average 1 per 40 ozs
Not more than 3 in any sample unit. Sample average 1 per 30 ozs
4 or more in any sample unit. Sample average 1 per 20 ozs.
Defects:
Total-mutilated, minor blemished, and blemished of which
100 cherries
10
15
20.
Blemished—limited to
3
7
15.
Harmless extraneous material
20 ozs
Average 1 piece per 60 oz. net contents
Average 1 piece per 40 oz. net contents
Average 1 piece per 20 oz. net contents.

# Lot Compliance
§ 52.811
Ascertaining the grade of a lot.
The grade of a lot of frozen red tart pitted cherries covered by these standards is determined by the procedures set forth in the Regulations Governing Inspection and Certification of Processed Fruits and Vegetables, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products (§§ 52.1 through 52.83).

# Score Sheet
§ 52.812
Score sheet for frozen red tart pitted cherries.
Size and kind of container
Container mark or identification
Label (style of pack, ratio of fruit to sugar, etc., if shown)
Net weight (ounces)
Size
1
Factor
Score points
Color
30
(A)
27-30
(B)
2
24-26
(C)
2
21-23
(SStd.)
2
0-20
Freedom from pits
20
(A)
18-20
(B)
2
16-17
(C)
2
14-15
(SStd.)
2
0-13
Freedom from defects
20
(A)
(B)
18-20
2
16-17
(C)
2
14-15
(SStd.)
2
0-13
Character
30
(A)
27-30
(B)
2
24-26
(C)
2
21-23
(SStd.)
2
0-20
Total score
100
Normal flavor
Grade
1
See size limitation for U.S. Grade A and U.S. Grade B.
2
Indicates limiting rule.

# Subpart D—United States Standards for Grades of Dates

# Source:
20 FR 5755, Aug. 10, 1955, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Product Description, Styles, and Grades
§ 52.1001
Product description.
Dates are the properly cured fresh fruit of the date tree (Phoenix dactylifera) which may or may not be softened by hydration. For the purposes of the standards in this subpart, dates, when referred to as “dry dates for processing,” means that the dates are dry and have not been softened by hydration.
§ 52.1002
Styles of dates.
(a)
Whole
or
whole dates
means whole unpitted dates from which the pits have not been removed and which may be slit longitudinally.
(b)
Pitted
or
pitted dates
means whole dates from which the pits have been removed.
(c)
Pieces
or
date pieces
means dates that have been cut or sliced into small pieces and that can be handled as individual units.
(d)
Macerated
or
macerated dates
means dates that have been ground, chopped, mashed, or broken or that have been cut or sliced into small pieces and that cannot be handled as individual units.
§ 52.1003
Grades of dates.
(a)
U.S. Grade A
or
U.S. Fancy
is the quality of whole or pitted dates that are of one variety, that possess a good color, that are practically uniform in size, that are practically free from defects, that possess a good character, and that score not less than 90 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
(b)
U.S. Grade B
or
U.S. Choice
is the quality of whole or pitted dates other than whole dry dates for processing that are of one variety, that possess a reasonably good color, that are reasonably uniform in size, that are reasonably free from defects, that possess a reasonably good character, and that score not less than 80 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
(c)
U.S. Grade B (Dry)
or
U.S. Choice (Dry)
is the quality of whole dry dates for processing that are of one variety, that possess a reasonably good color, that are reasonably uniform in size, that are reasonably free from defects, that possess a reasonably good character, and that score not less than 80 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
(d)
U.S. Grade C
or
U.S. Stand- ard
is the quality of whole or pitted dates other than whole dry dates for processing that are of one variety or of date pieces or macerated dates that possess a fairly good color, that are fairly uniform in size except for date pieces or macerated dates, that are fairly free from defects, that possess a fairly good character, and that score not less than 70 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
(e)
U.S. Grade C (Dry)
or
U.S. Standard (Dry)
is the quality of whole dry dates for processing that are of one variety, that possess a fairly good color, that are fairly uniform in size, that are fairly free from defects, that possess a fairly good character, and that score not less than 70 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart.
(f)
Substandard
is the quality of dates that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C or U.S. Stand- ard or U.S. Grade C (Dry) or U.S. Standard (Dry), whichever is applicable.

# Factors of Quality
§ 52.1004
Ascertaining the grade.
In addition to considering other requirements outlined in the standards, the following quality factors are evaluated:
(a)
Factor not related by score points.
(1) Varietal requirement.
(b)
Factors rated by score points.
The relative importance of each factor which is scored is expressed numerically on the scale of 100. The maximum number of points that may be given such factors are:
Points
(1) Color
20
(2) Uniformity of size
10
(3) Absence of defects
30
(4) Character
40
Total score
100
§ 52.1005
Ascertaining the rating for the factors which are scored.
The essential variations within each factor which is scored are so described that the value may be ascertained for each factor and expressed numerically. The numerical range within each factor which is scored is inclusive (for example, “18 to 20 points” means 18, 19, or 20 points).
§ 52.1006
Color.
(a) (
A
)
classification.
Whole or pitted dates that possess a good color may be given a score of 18 to 20 points. “Good color” means that the color of the dates is practically uniform; and, with
respect to dates that are predominantly light amber in color, there may be not more than 5 percent by count of dates that are dark amber in color; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly dark amber in color, there may be not more than 5 percent by count of dates that are light amber in color.
(b) (
B
)
classification.
If the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing possess a reasonably good color, a score of 16 or 17 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B or U.S. Choice or U.S. Grade B (Dry) or U.S. Choice (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably good color” means that the color of the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing is reasonably uniform for the type; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly light amber in color, there may be not more than 10 percent by count of dates that are dark amber in color; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly dark amber in color, there may be not more than 10 percent by count of dates that are light amber in color.
(c) (
C
)
classification.
If the whole or pitted dates, whole dry dates for processing, date pieces, or macerated dates possess a fairly good color, a score of 14 or 15 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard or U.S. Grade C (Dry) or U.S. Standard (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good color” has the following meanings with respect to the following styles:
(1)
Whole; pitted.
The color of the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing is fairly uniform for the type; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly light amber in color, there may be not more than 20 percent by count of dates that are dark amber in color; and, with respect to dates that are predominantly dark amber in color, there may be not more than 20 percent by count of dates that are light amber in color.
(2)
Pieces; macerated.
The color may be variable throughout the units or mass, may be slightly dull but not off-color, and is typical of properly prepared dates of these styles.
(d) (
SStd
)
classification.
Dates that fail to meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section may be given a score of 0 to 13 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.1007
Uniformity of size.
(a)
General.
The factor of uniformity of size applies only to whole and pitted styles. The factor of uniformity of size in the styles of date pieces and macerated dates is not based on any detailed requirements and is not scored; the other three factors (color, absence of defects, and character is applicable) are scored and the total is multiplied by 100 and divided by 90, dropping any fractions to determine the total score.
(b) (
A
)
classification.
Whole or pitted dates that are practically uniform in size may be given a score of 9 or 10 points. “Practically uniform in size” means that not more than a total of 10 percent, by weight, of the whole or pitted dates may be conspicuously larger or smaller than the approximate average size of the dates in the container.
(c) (
B
)
classification.
If the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing are reasonably uniform in size, a score of 8 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B or U.S. Choice or U.S. Grade B (Dry) or U.S. Choice (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably uniform in size” means that not more than a total of 15 percent, by weight, of the whole or pitted dates may be conspicuously larger or smaller than the approximate average size of the dates in the container.
(d) (
C
)
classification.
If the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing are fairly uniform in size, a score of 7 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard or U.S. Grade C (Dry) or U.S. Standard (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score
for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly uniform in size” means that not more than a total of 20 percent, by weight, of the whole or pitted dates may be conspicuously larger or smaller than the approximate average size of the dates in the container.
(e) (
SStd
)
classification.
Whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing that fail to meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section may be given a score of 0 to 6 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.1008
Absence of defects.
(a)
Definitions of defects.
Unless otherwise stated specifically, the following definitions of defects or defective units apply only to whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing, as applicable for the type:
(1)
Damaged by discoloration
is the presence of a dark area in the flesh of the date, which dark area is visible through the skin and is more than one-fourth (
1/4
) inch in width and extends more than the equivalent of half the length of the date, such darkening being of natural origin and not caused by mold or other organism.
(2)
Damaged by broken skin
is any rupture of the skin in a manner to expose the flesh of the date, the short- est dimension of such exposed area being not less than three-sixteenths (
3/16
) inch.
(3)
Damaged by checking
is the presence of fine lines, resulting from water injury, affecting the surface of the skin over an area not less than one-fourth of the total surface of the date.
(4)
Seriously damaged by checking
is the presence of heavy lines, resulting from water injury, seriously affecting the surface of the skin over an area not less than one-fourth of the total surface of the date.
(5)
Damaged by deformity
is any abnormal shape sufficient to produce an appearance discernibly at variance with the normal shape that is typical of the variety.
(6)
Damaged by puffiness
is the condition of a date of which the skin is soft and pliable and from which the skin is separated from the flesh in a balloon-like fashion, over an area not less than one-half of the total surface of the date. Soft skins which have returned and adhere to the flesh of the date are not considered “damaged by puffiness.”
(7)
Seriously damaged by puffiness
is the condition of a date of which the skin is dry, hard, and brittle and from which the skin is separated from the flesh over an area not less than one-half of the total surface of the date.
(8)
Damaged by scars
are any blemishes that affect the exterior of the date and which are not less than three-sixteenths (
3/16
) inch in the shortest dimension.
(9)
Damaged by sunburn
is an area, usually light in color, scarred by the heat of the sun, such area being not less than three-sixteenths (
3/16
) inch in the shortest dimension.
(10)
Damaged by insect injury
is any blemish, resulting from the activity of insects or mites, distributed over an area of not less than one-fourth of the total surface of the date or any similar blemish that materially affects the appearance or edibility of the unit, regardless of the area affected.
(11)
Damaged by improper hydrating
means that the date has been injured by excessive heat or that the hydrating process is incomplete.
(12)
Damaged by mashing
means any physical injury to the flesh and skin of the date leaving the date partially mangled but otherwise whole.
(13)
Damaged by mechanical injury
means excessive trimming or similar injury that damages the appearance or that damages or affects the eating quality of the whole date.
(14)
Damaged by lack of pollination
means, with respect to whole dates, that pollination of the date was not accomplished, such condition being manifested by the absence of a pit in the whole dates or by thin, immature appearance of the date.
(15)
Damaged by blacknose
is severe checking in which the flesh becomes dark, crusty, and dry and which severe checking affects an area greater than one-eighth of the total surface of the date.
(16)
Damaged by side spot
means a very dark area, which generally is circular in appearance, extending into the flesh of the date, and, when decayed tissue or mold is not present, affecting in the aggregate an area not less than
the area of a circle three-sixteenths (
3/16
) inch in diameter.
(17)
Damaged by black scald
means the collapse, death, and blackening of the flesh along the side of the date, usually accompanied by a bitter taste in the affected area.
(18)
Damage by improper ripening
means pronounced evidence of “green shrivel” of the date or that the date possesses a puffy flesh or a decidedly rubbery texture resulting from failure of the tissue of the date to reach a desirable state of maturity due to climatic or cultural injury, or both.
(19)
Damaged by other defects
means any injury or defect or group of defects not defined in this section (such as, but not limited to, heavy sugaring, and excessive scars not described in the definition “damaged by scars,”) which materially affect the appearance, edibility, or keeping quality of the dates.
(20)
Affected by scouring
is evidenced by the breakdown of the sugars into alcohol and acetic acid by yeasts and bacteria.
(21)
Affected by mold
is the presence of visible mold.
(22)
Affected by dirt
is the presence of any quantity of such substance.
(23)
Affected by insect infestation
is the presence of dead insects, insect parts, or excreta. (No live insects are permitted.)
(24)
Affected by foreign material
is the presence of any quantity of such substance.
(25)
Affected by decay
is a state of decomposition.
(b) (
A
)
classification.
Whole or pitted dates that are practically free from defects may be given a score of 27 to 30 points. “Practically free from defects” means that in pitted dates there may be present not more than one whole pit or two pit fragments for each 25 ounces of pitted dates; and that the whole or pitted dates do not exceed the total allowances and limitations shown in Chart I of this subpart.
(c) (
B
)
classification.
If the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing are reasonably free from defects, a score of 24 to 26 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B or U.S. Choice or U.S. Grade B (Dry) or U.S. Choice (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably free from defects” means that in pitted dates there may be present not more than one whole pit or two pit fragments for each 25 ounces of pitted dates; and that the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing do not exceed the total allowances and limitations shown in Chart II of this subpart.
(d) (
C
)
classification.
If the whole or pitted dates, whole dry dates for processing, date pieces, or macerated dates are fairly free from defects, a score of 21 to 23 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard or U.S. Grade C (Dry) or U.S. Standard (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly free from defects” has the following meanings with respect to the following styles:
(1)
Whole.
The defects or defective units in whole dates or whole dry dates for processing do not exceed the total allowances and limitations shown in Chart III of this subpart.
(2)
Pitted.
Not more than one whole pit or two pit fragments for each 25 ounces of pitted dates may be present; and the defects or defective units in pitted dates do not exceed the total allowances and limitations shown in Chart III of this subpart.
(3)
Pieces; macerated.
Not more than one whole pit or two pit fragments for each 25 ounces of pitted dates may be present; and the units or mass consists of clean and sound date material, fairly free from defects that seriously affect the appearance, edibility, or keeping quality of the product.
(e) (
SStd
)
classification.
Dates that fail to meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section may be given a score of 0 to 20 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).

# Chart No. I—Allowances and Limitations for Defects in Whole and Pitted Dates (Other Than Whole Dry Dates for Processing); U.S. Grade A or U.S. Fancy

# total allowance
Not more than a total of 10 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following:
Damaged by:
Discoloration.
Broken skin.
Checking.
Deformity.
Puffiness.
Scars.
Sunburn.
Insect injury.
Improper hydrating.
Mashing.
Mechanical injury.
Lack of pollination.
Blacknose.
Side spot.
Black scald.
Improper ripening.
Other defects.
Seriously damaged by checking.
Seriously damaged by puffiness.
Affected by:
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Decay.

# limitations
Not more than
3/5
of the total allowance or 6 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following:
Damaged by:
Side spot.
Black scald.
Improper ripening.
Other defects.
Affected by:
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Decay.
Not more than
2/5
of the total allowance, or 4 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following:
Damaged by:
Improper ripening.
Other defects.
Affected by:
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Decay.
Not more than
1/10
of the total allowance, or 1 percent, by weight of the dates, may be:
Affected by decay.

# Chart No. II—Allowances and Limitations for Defects in Whole and Pitted Dates or in Whole Dry Dates for Processing; U.S. Grade B or U.S. Choice and U.S. Grade B (Dry) or U.S. Choice (Dry)
Not more than 15 percent, by weight of the dates, may be seriously damaged by checking.
Not more than 20 percent, by weight of the dates, may be damaged by broken skin.

# additional allowance
Not more than a total of 15 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following:
Damaged by:
Deformity.
Puffiness.
Scars.
Sunburn.
Insect injury.
Improper hydrating.
Mashing.
Mechanical injury.
Lack of pollination.
Blacknose.
Side spot.
Black scald.
Improper ripening.
Other defects.
Seriously damaged by puffiness.
Affected by:
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Decay.

# limitations
Not more than
2/3
of the additional allowance, or 10 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following:
Damaged by:
Lack of pollination.
Blacknose.
Side spot.
Black scald.
Improper ripening.
Other defects.
Affected by:
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation
Foreign material.
Decay.
Not more than
1/3
of the additional allowance, or 5 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following:
Damaged by:
Improper ripening.
Other defects.
Affected by:
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Decay.
Not more than
1/15
of the additional allowance, or 1 percent, by weight of the dates, may be:
Affected by decay.

# Chart No. III—Allowances and Limitations for Defects in Whole and Pitted Dates or in Whole Dry Dates for Processing; U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard and U.S. Grade C (Dry) or U.S. Standard (Dry)

# total allowance
Not more than a total of 20 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following.
Damaged by:
Deformity.
Scars.
Sunburn.
Insect injury.
Improper hydrating.
Mashing.
Mechanical injury.
Lack of pollination.
Blacknose.
Side spot.
Black scald.
Improper ripening.
Other defects.
Seriously damaged by puffiness
Affected by:
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Decay.

# limitations
Not more than
1/2
of the total allowance, or 10 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following.
Damaged by:
Lack of pollination
Blacknose.
Side spot.
Black scald.
Improper ripening.
Other defects.
Affected by:
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Decay.
Not more than
1/4
of the total allowance, or 5 percent, by weight of the dates, may be the following:
Affected by
Souring.
Mold.
Dirt.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Decay.
Not more than
1/10
of the total allowance, or 2 percent, by weight of the dates, may be:
Affected by decay.
§ 52.1009
Character.
(a)
(A) classification.
Whole or pitted dates that possess a good character may be given a score of 36 to 40 points. “Good character” means that not less than 75 percent, by weight, of the dates are well developed, well fleshed, and soft, or at the time of packing are in a state of ripeness that within 15 days will develop into such character; and the remainder may possess a reasonably good character including not more than a total of 2 percent, by weight, of the dates that may possess semi-dry calyx ends and none may possess dry calyx ends.
(b)
(B) classification.
If the whole or pitted dates or whole dry dates for processing possess a reasonably good character, a score of 32 to 35 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B or U.S. Choice or U.S. Grade B (Dry) or U.S. Choice (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
(1) “Reasonably good character” with respect to whole or pitted dates other than whole dry dates for processing means that the dates are pliable; that not less than 75 percent, by weight, of the dates are reasonably well developed and reasonably well fleshed, or at time of packing are in a state of ripeness that within 15 days will develop into such character and the remainder may possess a fairly good character including not more than 10 percent, by weight, of the dates that may possess semi-dry calyx ends and dry calyx ends:
Provided,
That not more than 2 percent, by weight, of the dates may possess dry calyx ends.
(2) “Reasonably good character” with respect to whole dry dates for processing means that the dates may be
firm and dry; that not less than 75 percent, by weight, of the dates are reasonably well developed and reasonably well fleshed and that the remainder are fairly well developed and fairly well fleshed.
(c)
(C) classification.
If the whole or pitted dates, whole dry dates for processing, date pieces, or macerated dates possess a fairly good character, a score of 28 to 31 points may be given. Dates that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard or U.S. Grade C (Dry) or U.S. Standard (Dry), whichever is applicable, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good character” has the following meanings with respect to the following styles:
(1)
Whole; pitted.
(i) In whole or pitted dates other than whole dry dates for processing the dates may be firm but are pliable; may possess semi-dry calyx ends; and not less than 80 percent, by weight, of the dates are fairly well developed and are fairly well fleshed, or at time of packing are in a state of ripeness that within 15 days will develop into such character and the remainder may fail to possess such fairly good character or may possess dry calyx ends.
(ii) In whole dry dates for processing the dates may be firm and dry but are fairly well developed and fairly well fleshed.
(2)
Pieces; macerated.
The character may be variable throughout the units or mass but not seriously affected by dry calyx end material or inedible portions of dates.
(d)
(SStd) classification.
Dates that fail to meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section may be given a score of 0 to 27 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).

# Lot Inspection and Certification
§ 52.1010
Ascertaining the grade of a lot.
The grade of a lot of the processed product covered by these standards is determined by the procedures set forth in the regulations governing inspection and certification of processed fruits and vegetables, processed products thereof, and certain other processed food products (§§ 52.1 to 52.87).
[22 FR 3547, May 22, 1957. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Score Sheet
§ 52.1011
Score sheet for dates.
Size and kind of container
Container mark or identification
Label or brand
Net weight
Style
Count (per lb.)
Moisture content (if determined)
One variety (□) Yes (□) No
Factors
Score points
Color
20
(A)
18-20
(B) (B-Dry)
1
16-17
(C) (C-Dry)
1
14-15
(SStd)
1
0-13
Uniformity of size
10
(A)
(B) (B-Dry)
9-10
1
8
(C) (C-Dry)
1
7
(SStd)
1
0-6
Absence of defects
30
(A)
(B) (B-Dry)
27-30
1
24-26
(C) (C-Dry)
1
21-23
(SStd)
1
0-20
Character
40
(A)
36-40
(B) (B-Dry)
1
32-35
(C) (C-Dry)
1
28-31
(SStd)
1
0-27
Total score
100
Grade
1
Limiting rule.

# Subpart E—United States Standards for Grades of Processed Raisins

# Source:
41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.
§ 52.1841
Product description.
Processed Raisins are dried grapes of the Vinifera varieties, such as Thompson Seedless (Sultanina), Muscat of Alexandria, Muscatel Gordo Blanco, Sultana, Black Corinth or White Corinth. The processed raisins are prepared from clean, sound, dried grapes; are properly stemmed and capstemmed except for cluster or uncapstemmed raisins; are properly seeded in seeded styles; are sorted or cleaned, or both;
and except for cluster or uncapstemmed raisins, are washed in water to assure a wholesome product.
§ 52.1842
Product description of Layer or (Cluster) raisins with seeds.
Raisins with Seeds that are referred to as
Layer or Cluster raisins
means that the raisins have not been detached from the main bunch.
§ 52.1843
Summary of types (varieties) of processed raisins.
(a) Type I—Seedless Raisins.
(1) Natural.
(2) Dipped, Vine-dried, or similarly processed raisins.
(b) Type II—Golden Seedless Raisins.
(c) Type III—Raisins with Seeds.
(1) Natural.
(i) Seeded (seeds removed).
(ii) Unseeded-capstemmed (loose).
(iii) Unseeded-uncapstemmed (loose).
(iv) Layer (or Cluster).
(2) Dipped, Vine-dried, or other similarly processed raisins.
(i) Seeded (seeds removed).
(ii) Unseeded-capstemmed (loose).
(iii) Unseeded-uncapstemmed (loose).
(d) Type IV—Sultana Raisins.
(e) Type V—Zante Currant Raisins.
(1) Unseeded.
(2) Seeded.
(f) Type VI—Mixed Types or Varieties of Raisins. A mixture of two or more different types (varieties) of raisins including sub-types outlined in this section but other than: (1) Mixtures containing Layer or Cluster Raisins with seeds; (2) Mixtures containing Unseeded-capstemmed and Unseeded-uncapstemmed Raisins with Seeds; and (3) mixture of Seeded and Unseeded Raisins with Seeds.
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 63 FR 72101, Dec. 31, 1998]
§ 52.1844
Definition of terms.
(a)
Capstems
means small woody stems exceeding
1/8
-inch in length which attach the raisins to the branches of the bunch.
(b) A
piece of stem
means a portion of the branch or main stem.
(c)
Seeds
refers to whole, fully developed seeds which have not been removed during the processing of seeded raisins with seeds.
(d)
Damaged raisins
means raisins affected by sunburn, scars, insect injury, mechanical injury, or other similar means which seriously affect the appearance, edibility, keeping quality, or shipping quality of the raisins. In seeded Raisins with Seeds, mechanical injury resulting from normal seeding operations is not considered damage.
(e)
Sugared
means either external or internal sugar crystals are present and the accumulation of such crystallized fruit sugars in the flesh or on the surface of the raisins is readily apparent.
(f)
Grit, sand, or silt
means any particle or earthy material.
(g)
Moisture
means the percentage by weight of the processed raisins, exclusive of branch and heavy stem material, that is moisture when determined by the “Dried Fruit Moisture Tester Method” or in accordance with other methods that give equivalent results.
(h)
Slightly discolored
means a raisin affected by a brown to dark brown discolored area around the capstem end of the raisin that is less than the area of a circle
1/8
-inch in diameter.
(i)
Discolored
means a raisin affected by a brown to dark brown discolored area around the capstem end of the raisin that equals or exceeds the area of a circle
1/8
-inch in diameter;
Provided,
That the overall appearance, keeping quality, and edibility of the product are not seriously affected.
(j)
Well-matured
means raisins that are full-fleshed, may have fine wrinkles and are rounded in appearance.
(k)
Reasonably well-matured
means raisins that are reasonably full-fleshed and may have shallow wrinkles with thick edged ridges.
(l)
Fairly well-matured
means raisins that are thin-fleshed and angular in appearance.
(m)
Substandard development
means raisins that are practically lacking in flesh.
(n)
Undeveloped
refers to extremely light berries that are lacking in sugary tissue indicating incomplete development; are reddish in color; are completely shriveled; have fine wrinkles on smaller units and moderately deep wrinkles on slightly larger units; and
are commonly referred to as “worthless.”

# Type I—Seedless Raisins
§ 52.1845
Sizes of seedless raisins.
The size designations and measurement requirements for the respective sizes are:
(a)
Select
size raisins means that no more than 60 percent, by weight, of all the raisins will pass through round perforations
22/64
-inch in diameter, but not more than 10 percent, by weight, of all the raisins may pass through round perforations
20/64
-inch in diameter.
(b)
Small
size raisins means that 95 percent, by weight, of all the raisins will pass through round perforations
24/64
-inch in diameter, and not less than 70 percent, by weight, of all raisins will pass through round perforations
22/64
-inch in diameter.
(c)
Mixed
size raisins means a mixture that does not meet either the requirements for “select” size or for “small” size.
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 81 FR 40780, June 23, 2016]
§ 52.1846
Grades of seedless raisins.
(a) “U.S. Grade A” is the quality of seedless raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from well-matured grapes with not less than 80 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture for all varieties of seedless raisins except the Monukka variety, which may contain not more than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and that meet the additional requirements outlined in table 1 to this section.
(b) “U.S. Grade B” is the quality of seedless raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a reasonably good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from reasonably well-matured grapes with not less than 70 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture for all varieties of seedless raisins except the Monukka variety, which may contain not more than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and that meet the additional requirements outlined in table 1 to this section.
(c) “U.S. Grade C” is the quality of seedless raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a fairly good typical color; that have a fairly good flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes with not less than 55 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture for all varieties of seedless raisins except the Monukka variety, which may contain not more than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and that meet the additional requirements outlined in table 1 to this section.
(d) “Substandard” is the quality of seedless raisins that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. grade C.
Table 1 to § 52.1846—Allowances for Defects in Type I, Seedless Raisins and Type II, Golden Seedless Raisins
Defects
U.S. Grade A
U.S. Grade B
U.S. Grade C
Maximum count (per 96 ounces)
Pieces of stem
1
2
4
Maximum count (per 16 ounces)
Capstems
10
15
20
Maximum (percent by weight)
Sugared
5
10
15
Discolored, damaged or moldy raisins
4
6
9
Provided these limits are not exceeded:
Damaged
2
3
5
Moldy
2
3
4
Total
Substandard development and undeveloped:
Selected size
1
1
1/2
2
Mixed size
1
2
3
Small size
2
3
5
Appearance or edibility of product
Slightly discolored or damaged by fermentation or any other defect not described above
May not be affected
May not be more than slightly affected
May not be materially affected.
Grit, sand, or silt
None of any consequence may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product
Not more than a trace may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product.
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977; 43 FR 51754, Nov. 7, 1978. Further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 81 FR 40780, June 23, 2016; 88 FR 71460, Oct. 17, 2023]

# Type II—Golden Seedless Raisins
§ 52.1847
Colors of golden seedless raisins.
The color of Golden Seedless Raisins is not a factor of quality for the purpose of these grades. The color requirements applicable to the respective color designations are as follows:
(a) “Well colored” means that the raisins are practically uniform in color and may range from yellow or golden to light amber color with a predominating yellow or golden color and that not more than
1/2
of 1 percent, by weight, of all the raisins may be definitely dark berries.
(b) “Reasonably well colored” means that the raisins are reasonably uniform in color and may range from yellow or golden or greenish yellow to light amber wherein the predominating color may be greenish yellow or light amber and that not more than 3 percent, by weight, of all the raisins may be definitely dark berries.
(c) “Fairly well colored” means that the raisins are fairly uniform in color and may range from yellow or greenish yellow to amber or light greenish amber and that not more than 6 percent, by weight, of all the raisins may be definitely dark berries.
(d) “Colored” means that the raisins may be variable in color and may range from yellowish green to dark amber or dark greenish amber; that not more than 20 percent, by weight, of all the raisins may be definitely dark berries.
(e) “Definitely dark berries” means raisins which are definitely darker than dark amber and characteristic of naturally “raisined” grapes.
§ 52.1848
Sizes of golden seedless raisins.
The size designations and measurement requirements for the respective sizes of Golden Seedless Raisins are the same as for Seedless Raisins (See § 52.1845).
§ 52.1849
Grades of golden seedless raisins.
Except for color, the grades of Golden Seedless Raisins are the same as for Seedless Raisins (See § 52.1846 and table 1 to § 52.1846).
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 88 FR 71461, Oct. 17, 2023]

# Type III—Raisins With Seeds
§ 52.1850
Sizes of raisins with seeds—except layer or cluster.
The sizes of Raisins with Seeds—except for Layer or Cluster Raisins with
Seeds, are not incorporated in the grades of the finished product since size, as such, is not a factor of quality for the purposes of these grades. The common size designations and measurement requirements applicable thereto include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
Seeded.
(1)
Select
size raisins means that not more than 70 percent, by weight, of the raisins will pass through round perforations
34/64
-inch in diameter; and not more than 5 percent, by weight, of the raisins will pass through round perforations
22/64
-inch in diameter.
(2)
Small
size raisins means that all of the raisins will pass through round perforations
34/64
-inch in diameter and not less than 90 percent, by weight, of all the raisins will pass through round perforations
22/64
-inch in diameter.
(3)
Mixed
size raisins means a mixture does not meet either the requirements for “select” size or for “small” size.
(b)
Unseeded.
(1)
4 Crown
means raisins that will not pass through round perforations
42/64
-inch in diameter.
(2)
3 Crown
means raisins that will pass through round perforations
42/64
-inch in diameter but will not pass through round perforations
34/64
-inch in diameter.
(3)
2 Crown
means raisins that will pass through round perforations
34/64
-inch in diameter but will not pass through round perforations
24/64
-inch in diameter.
(4)
1 Crown
means raisins that will pass through round perforations
24/64
-inch in diameter.
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 81 FR 40780, June 23, 2016]
§ 52.1851
Sizes of raisins with seeds—layer or cluster.
The size of Layer or Cluster Raisins with Seeds is incorporated in the grades of the finished product. The size designation and measurement as applicable to layer or cluster raisins with seeds are:
(a)
3 Crown size or larger.
“3 Crown size or larger” in Layer or Cluster Raisins with Seeds means that the raisins, exclusive of stems and branches, are such a size that they will not pass through round perforations
34/64
-inch in diameter.
§ 52.1852
Grades of raisins with seeds—except layer or cluster.
(a) “U.S. Grade A” is the quality of Raisins with Seeds that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a good typical color with not more than 10 percent, by weight, that may be dark reddish-brown berries; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from well-matured grapes; with not less than 80 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture, except that any seeded raisins may contain not more than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and meet the additional requirements as outlined in table 1 to this section.
(b) “U.S. Grade B” is the quality of Raisins with Seeds that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a reasonably good typical color with not more than 15 percent, by weight, that may be dark reddish-brown berries; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from reasonably well-matured grapes; with not less than 70 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well matured; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture, except that any seeded raisins may contain not more than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and meet the additional requirements as outlined in table 1 to this section.
(c) “U.S. Grade C” is the quality of Raisins with Seeds that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a fairly good typical color with not more than 20 percent, by weight, that may be dark reddish-brown berries; that have a fairly good flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture, except that any seeded raisins may contain not more
than 19 percent, by weight, of moisture; and meet the additional requirements as outlined in table 1 to this section.
(d) “Substandard” is the quality of Raisins with Seeds that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C.
Table 1 to § 52.1852—Allowances for Defects in Raisins With Seeds—Except Layer or Cluster
Defects
U.S. Grade A
U.S. Grade B
U.S. Grade C
Maximum count (per 32 ounces)
Pieces of Stem
1
2
3
Maximum count (per 16 ounces)
Capstems in other than uncapstemmed types
10
15
20
Seeds in seeded types
12
15
20
Loose capstems in uncapstemmed types
20
20
20
Maximum (percent by weight)
Sugared
5
10
15
Discolored, damaged, or moldy
5
7
9
Provided these limits are not exceeded:
Damaged
3
4
5
Moldy
2
3
4
Substandard development and undeveloped
2
5
8
Appearance or edibility of product
Slightly discolored or damaged by fermentation or any other defect not described above
May not be affected
May not be more than slightly affected
May not be more than materially affected.
Grit, sand, or silt
None of any consequence may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product
Not more than a trace may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product.
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 88 FR 71461, Oct. 17, 2023]
§ 52.1853
Grades of raisins with seeds—layer or cluster.
(a) “U.S. Grade A” is the quality of Layer or Cluster Raisins with Seeds that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that are uniformly cured and show development characteristics of raisins prepared from well-matured grapes; that contain not more than 23 percent, by weight, of moisture; that not less than 30 percent, by weight, of the raisins, exclusive of stems and branches, are 3-Crown size or larger; and that meet the following additional requirements as outlined in table 1 to this section.
(b) “U.S. Grade B” is the quality of Layer or Cluster Raisins with Seeds that have similar varietal characteristics that have a reasonably good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that are uniformly cured and show development characteristics of raisins prepared from reasonably well-matured grapes; that contain not more than 23 percent, by weight, of the moisture, that not less than 30 percent, by weight, of the raisins exclusive of stems and branches, are 3-Crown size or larger; and that meet the additional requirements outlined in table 1 to this section.
(c) “Substandard” is the quality of Layer or Cluster Raisins with Seeds that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade B.
Table 1 to § 52.1853—Allowances for Defects in Layer or Cluster Raisins with Seeds
Defects
U.S. Grade A
U.S. Grade B
Maximum (percent by weight)
Sugared
5
10
Discolored, damaged, or moldy
5
7
Provided these limits are not exceeded:
Damaged
3
4
Moldy
2
3
Substandard development and undeveloped
2
5
Shattered (or loose) individual berries and small clusters of 2 or 3 berries each
Practically free
Reasonably free.
Appearance or edibility of product
Slightly discolored or damaged by fermentation or any other defect not described above
May not be affected
May not be more than slightly affected.
Grit, sand, or silt
None of any consequence may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product.
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 88 FR 71461, Oct. 17, 2023]

# Type IV—Sultana Raisins
§ 52.1854
Sizes of Sultana raisins.
Size designations are not applicable to Sultana Raisins.
§ 52.1855
Grades of Sultana raisins.
(a) “U.S. Grade A” is the quality of Sultana Raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from well-matured grapes; with not less than 80 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; and that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture, and that meet the additional requirements outlined in table 1 to this section.
(b) “U.S. Grade B” is the quality of Sultana Raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a reasonably good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from reasonably well-matured grapes; with not less than 70 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well-matured; and that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture, and that meet the additional requirements as outlined in table 1 to this section.
(c) “U.S. Grade C” is the quality of Sultana Raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a fairly good typical color; that have a fairly good flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes; that contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture; and that meet the additional requirements as outlined in table 1 to this section.
(d) “Substandard” is the quality of Sultana Raisins that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C.
Table 1 to § 52.1855—Allowances for Defects in Sultana Raisins
Defects
U.S. Grade A
U.S. Grade B
U.S. Grade C
Maximum count (per 32 ounces)
Pieces of stem
1
2
3
Maximum count (per 16 ounces)
Capstems
10
15
20
Maximum (percent by weight)
Sugared
5
10
15
Discolored, damaged, or moldy
4
6
9
Provided these limits are not exceeded:
Damaged
2
3
5
Moldy
2
3
4
Substandard development and undeveloped
2
5
8
Appearance or edibility of product
Slightly discolored or damaged by fermentation or any other defect not described above
May not be affected
May not be more than slightly affected
May not be more than materially affected.
Grit, sand, or silt
None of any consequence may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product
Not more than a trace may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product.
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 88 FR 71461, Oct. 17, 2023]

# Type V—Zante Currant Raisins
§ 52.1856
Sizes of zante currant raisins.
Size designations are not applicable to Zante Currant Raisins.
§ 52.1857
Grades of zante currant raisins.
(a) “U.S. Grade A” is the quality of Zante Currant Raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that show development characteristics of raisins prepared from well-matured grapes; that have not less than 75 percent, by weight, of raisins that are well-matured or reasonably well matured; that contain not more than 20 percent, by weight, of moisture; and meet the additional requirements as outlined in table 1 to this section.
(b) “U.S. Grade B” is the quality of Zante Currant Raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; that have a reasonably good typical color; that have a good characteristic flavor; that have development characteristics of raisins prepared from reasonably well-matured and/or fairly well matured grapes; that contain not more than 20 percent, by weight, of moisture; and meet the additional requirements as outlined in table 1 to this section.
(c) “Substandard” is the quality of Zante Currant Raisins that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade B.
Table 1 to § 52.1857—Allowances for Defects in Zante Currant Raisins
Defects
Maximum count
U.S. Grade A
U.S. Grade B
Pieces of stem
1 per 24 ounces
1 per 16 ounces.
Seeds (in Seeded style)
12 per 16 ounces
15 per 16 ounces.
Maximum (percent by weight)
Capstems—Zantes with capstems and loose capstems (include one Zante with each loose capstem)
1
1/2
2
Sugared
5
10
Discolored, damaged, or moldy
5
7
Provided these limits are not exceeded:
Damaged
2
3
Moldy
3
4
Substandard Development and Undeveloped
2
5
Appearance or edibility of product
Slightly discolored or damaged by fermentation or any other defect not described above
May not be affected
May not be more than slightly affected.
Grit, sand, or silt
None of any consequence may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product.
[41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 88 FR 71461, Oct. 17, 2023]

# Type VI—Mixed Types of Raisins
§ 52.1858
Grades of mixed types or varieties of raisins.
The grade of a lot of mixed types of processed raisins shall be the lower (or lowest) grade of any varietal type in the mixture based on the respective requirements for each type, except for moisture, in accordance with this subpart. Mixed types of processed raisins of U.S. Grade A, U.S. Grade B, or U.S. Grade C may contain not more than 18 percent, by weight, of moisture. Mixed types of processed raisins that as a mixture exceed 18 percent, by weight, of moisture are “Substandard.”

# Subpart F—United States Standards for Grades of Dried Prunes

# Source:
21 FR 8177, Oct. 25, 1956, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Product Description, Varietal Types, Sizes, Grades
§ 52.3181
Product description.
Dried prunes are prepared from sound, properly matured prune plums from which the greater portion of moisture is removed by drying. The dried prunes are cleaned to assure a wholesome product; they may be treated with water or steam; and a safe and suitable preservative may be added.
[30 FR 11596, Sept. 10, 1965. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.3182
Varietal types of dried prunes.
(a)
Type I.
French; or Robe; or a mixture of French and Robe.
(b)
Type II.
Italian.
(c)
Type III.
Imperial; or Sugar; or a mixture of Imperial and Sugar.
(d)
Type IV.
Any other types; or mixtures of any types other than mixtures in Type I and Type III of this section.
§ 52.3183a
Styles of dried prunes.
(a) Whole Unpitted—from which pits have not been removed.
(b) Whole Pitted—from which pits have been removed.
[30 FR 11596, Sept. 10, 1965. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.3183b
Count-sizes of whole unpitted dried prunes.
(a)
Count-sizes.
Except for U.S. Grade A or U.S. Fancy, the count-sizes of dried prunes are not incorporated in the grades of dried prunes. The count-sizes of dried prunes in this subpart refer to the count (or number) of prunes per pound of dried prunes. The various sizes of dried prunes for the respective varietal types are commonly designated as follows, but may be designated by other numerical expressions:
(1)
Type I; Type IV.
30/40, 40/50, 50/60, 60/70, 70/80, 80/90, 90/100, 100/120, 120 and over.
(2)
Type II.
25/35, 35/45, 30/40, 40/50, 50/60, 60/70, 70/80, 80/90, 90/100.
(3)
Type III.
15/20, 18/24, 20/30, 30/40, 40/50, 50/60, 60/70.
(b)
Recommended size nomenclature.
The following size nomenclature is recommended for the respective “countsizes” of dried prunes:
Extra large
Average: Not more than 43 prunes per pound.
Large
Average: Not more than 53 prunes per pound.
Medium
Average: Not more than 67 prunes per pound.
Small
Average: Not more than 85 prunes per pound.
[21 FR 8177, Oct. 25, 1956. Redesignated at 30 FR 11596, Sept. 10, 1965, and further redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.3184
Grades of dried prunes.
(a) “U.S. Grade A” or “U.S. Fancy” is the quality of dried prunes that, except for mixed types, possess similar varietal characteristics; that are fairly uniform in size and average 85 prunes or less per pound; that meet the applicable moisture limits in Table IV of this subpart but regardless of size and kind of packaging are reasonably uniform in moisture; and that do not exceed the total allowances and limitations for defects shown in Table I of this subpart.
(b) “U.S. Grade B” or “U.S. Choice” is the quality of dried prunes that, except for mixed types, possess similar varietal characteristics; that are fairly uniform in size; that meet the applicable moisture limits in Table IV of this subpart but regardless of size and kind of packaging are reasonably uniform in moisture; and that do not exceed the total allowances and limitations for defects shown in Table II of this subpart.
(c) “U.S. Grade C” or “U.S. Standard” is the quality of dried prunes that, except for mixed types, possess similar varietal characteristics; that are fairly uniform in size; that meet the applicable moisture limits in Table IV of this subpart but regardless of size and kind of packaging are reasonably uniform in moisture; and that do not exceed the total allowances and limitations for defects shown in Table III of this subpart
(d) “Substandard” is the quality of dried prunes that meet the applicable moisture limits in Table IV of this subpart but regardless of size and kind of packaging are reasonably uniform in moisture; and that may fail to meet other requirements for U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard, but not more than 5 percent, by weight, of the dried prunes may be affected by mold, dirt, foreign material, insect infestation, or decay:
Provided,
That not more than 1 percent, by weight, of the dried prunes may be affected by decay.
Table I—U.S. Grade A or U.S. Fancy; Allowances for Defects
Total allowance
Limitations
Not more than a total of 10 percent, by weight, may be damaged or affected by:
Not more than 6 percent, by weight, may be damaged or affected by:
Not more than 3 percent, by weight, may be affected by:
Not more than 1 percent, by weight, may be affected by:
Off-color.
Poor texture.
Mold.
Decay.
Poor texture.
End cracks.
Dirt.
End cracks.
Skin or flesh
Foreign material.
Skin or flesh damage.
2
damage.
2
Fermentation.
Insect infestation.
Decay.
Fermentation.
Scars.
Scars.
Heat damage.
Heat damage.
Insect injury.
Insect injury.
Other means.
Other means.
Mold.
Mold.
Dirt.
Dirt.
Foreign material.
Foreign material.
Insect infestation.
Inset infestation.
Decay.
Decay.
Table II—U.S. Grade B or U.S. Choice: Allowances for Defects
Total allowance
Limitations
Not more than a total of 15 percent, by weight, may be damaged or affected by:
Not more than 8 percent, by weight, may be damaged or affected by:
Not more than 4 percent, by weight, may be affected by:
Not more than 1 percent, by weight, may be affected by:
Off-color.
Poor texture.
Mold
Decay.
Poor texture.
End cracks.
Dirt.
End cracks.
Skin or flesh.
Foreign material.
Skin or flesh
damage.
2
Inset infestation.
damage.
2
Fermentation.
Decay.
Fermentation.
Scars.
Scars.
Heat damage.
Heat damage.
Inset injury.
Insect injury.
Other means.
Other means.
Mold.
Mold.
Dirt
Dirt.
Foreign material.
Foreign material.
Insect infestation.
Insect infestation.
Decay.
Decay.
Table III—U.S. Grade C or U.S. Standard Allowances for Defects
Total allowance
Limitations
Not more than a total of 20 percent, by weight, may be damaged or affected by:
Not more than 10 percent, by weight, may be damaged or affected by:
Not more than 8 percent, by weight, may be damaged or affected by:
Not more than 5 percent, by weight, may be affected by:
Off-color.
End cracks.
1
Skin or flesh
Mold.
Poor texture.
Skin or flesh
damage.
2
Dirt.
End cracks.
1
damage.
2
Fermentation.
Foreign material.
Skin or flesh damage.
2
Fermentation.
Scars.
Scars.
Heat damage.
Insect infestation.
Decay.
Fermentation.
Scars.
Heat damage.
Insect injury.
Heat damage.
Insect injury.
Other means.
Insect injury.
Other means.
Mold.
Provided,
That not more than 1 percent, by weight, may be affected by decay.
Other means.
Mold.
Dirt.
Mold.
Dirt.
Foreign material.
Dirt.
Foreign material.
Insect infestation.
Foreign material.
Insect infestation.
Decay.
Insect infestation.
Decay.
Decay.
1
Except that each 1 percent of end cracks to, and including, 8 percent, by weight, shall be considered as
1/2
percent damaged by end cracks; and any additional end cracks shall be calculated as true percentage, by weight.
2
Not applicable to “Whole Pitted” style.
Table IV—Moisture Allowances for Dried Prunes
[Non-hermetically sealed containers; 10 pounds or more]
Grades
Maximum moisture limits (percent)
Counts averaging 60 or less per pound
Counts averaging 61 or more per pound
U.S. Grade A or U.S. fancy
25
24
U.S. Grade B or U.S. choice
25
24
U.S. Grade C or U.S. standard
25
24
Substandard
25
24
[21 FR 8177, Oct. 25, 1956, as amended at 30 FR 11596, Sept. 10, 1965. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Moisture, Uniformity of Size, Defects
§ 52.3185
Moisture limits.
Dried prunes shall not exceed the moisture limits for the applicable grades and kind and size of packaging as designated in Table IV of this subpart except there is no moisture limit when safe and suitable preservatives have been added. “Moisture” means
the percentage by weight of the finished dried prunes, exclusive of pits, that is moisture when determined by the Dried Fruit Moisture Tester Method or in accordance with methods that give equivalent results. The moisture limits in Table IV apply only to so-called “bulk packs” of dried prunes packaged in non-hermetically sealed containers holding 10 pounds or more of dried prunes when safe and suitable preservatives have not been added. Such containers include, but are not limited to, wood boxes or fiber boxes.
[30 FR 11596, Sept. 10, 1965. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.3186
Definitions for uniformity of size.
(a)
Fairly uniform in size.
“Fairly uniform in size” means that in a sample of 100 ounces:
(1) For prunes that average 53 prunes or less per pound, the count per pound of 10 ounces of the smallest prunes does not vary from the count per pound of 10 ounces of the largest prunes by more than 25 points; or
(2) For prunes that average 54 prunes or more per pound, the count per pound of 10 ounces of the smallest prunes does not vary from the count per pound of 10 ounces of the largest prunes by more than 45 points.
§ 52.3187
Definitions and explanations of defects.
Dried prunes damaged or affected by the following are scorable as defects:
(a)
Off-color.
“Off-color” means a skin color different from characteristic black, blue-black, reddish-purple, or other characteristic skin color for the type.
(b)
Poor texture.
“Poor texture” means porous, woody, or fibrous flesh or immature prunes or prunes possessing flesh interspersed with excessive air pockets in which the texture of the flesh is noticeably different from the flesh of mature prunes which have been properly dried, handled, and processed. “Excessive air pockets” means that the prunes are affected by air pockets to the extent that the appearance and eating quality is seriously affected.
(c)
End cracks.
“End cracks” means callous apex-end cracks which, singly or in the aggregate on a prune, are more than
3/8
inch in length but not more than
1/2
inch in length.
(d)
Skin or flesh damage.
“Skin or flesh damage” in the case of “Whole Unpitted” style means:
(1) Callous growth cracks (other than callous apex-end cracks) which, singly or in the aggregate on a prune, exceed
3/8
inch in length; and callous apex-end cracks which, singly or in the aggregate on a prune, exceed
1/2
inch in length.
(2) Splits or skin breaks not having callous edges when the flesh is mashed out beyond the protecting skin so as to affect materially the normal appearance of the prune;
(3) Any cracks, splits, or skin breaks open to the pit;
(4) Any skin damage from multiple short skin breaks giving a very “rough” appearance to the prune such as may result from over-dipping, rain damage, processing, or other causes which in Type I dried prunes affect materially the appearance or edibility of the prune, or which in other types or other mixtures affect markedly the appearance or edibility of the prune.
(e)
Fermentation.
“Fermentation” means that the prune is fermented as evidenced by a distinct sour taste or odor or by darkening in color characteristic of fermentation or souring.
(f)
Scars.
“Scars” mean:
(1) Tough or thick scab which, singly or in combination on a prune, exceeds the area of a circle
3/8
inch in diameter such as may result from thrip injury, mildew, leaf chafing, limb rubs, or other means; or
(2) Scab which is not tough or thick and which, singly or in combination on a prune, exceeds the area of a circle
3/4
inch in diameter and which is inconsequential but unsightly though practically blending in color with the skin on the portion of the prune not affected.
(g)
Heat damage.
“Heat damage” means burning or scorching from the sun or in dehydration so as to damage materially the skin or flesh, or both, of the prune.
(h)
Insect injury.
“Insect injury” means healed or unhealed surface
blemishes and healed or unhealed blemishes extending into the flesh which affect materially the appearance, edibility, or keeping quality of the prune but which do not possess evidence of insect infestation.
(i)
Other means.
“Other means” includes damage by any injury or defect or group of defects not specifically mentioned in this section which materially affects the appearance, edibility, or keeping quality of the fruit, but “other means” does not include defects of a nature such as defined in paragraph (j), (k), (l), (m), or (n) of this section.
(j)
Mold.
“Mold” means a characteristic fungus growth as evidenced by a moldy or smutty condition and which, singly or in the aggregate on a prune, is equal to or exceeds the area of a circle
3/16
inch in diameter.
(k)
Dirt.
“Dirt” means the presence of any quantity of such substance, whether imbedded or adhering to the prune, which gives the prune a dirty, smudgy appearance and which may not be removed readily by washing.
(l)
Foreign material.
“Foreign material” means leaves, twigs, pieces of wood, and similar extraneous materials which are objectionable.
(m)
Insect infestation.
“Insect infestation” means the presence of dead insects, insect fragments, or insect remains. (No live insects are permitted).
(n)
Decay.
“Decay” means a state of decomposition, wholly or in part, of the prune.
[21 FR 8177, Oct. 25, 1956, as amended at 30 FR 11596, Sept. 10, 1965. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Work Sheet
§ 52.3188
Work sheet for dried prunes.
Size and kind of container
Container mark or identification
Label or brand
Varietal type
Style
Size:
Count per pound (Average)
Uniformity
( ) Extra large
( ) Large
( ) Medium
( ) Small
Moisture content percent; Uniformity
Varietal characteristics: ( ). Similar. ( ) Dissimilar.
Defects and summary of allowances
1
Grade A maximum
Grade B maximum
Grade C maximum
Substandard maximum
Total of all defects, including off-color
10 percent
15 percent
No limit except as indicated below.
Total of all defects, including off-color and poor texture
20 percent
Poor texture, end cracks, skin or flesh damage,
3
fermentation, scars, heat damage, insect injury, other means, mold, dirt, foreign material, insect infestation, decay
But no more than 6 percent
But no more than 8 percent
End cracks,
2
skin or flesh damage,
3
fermentation, scars, heat damage, insect injury, other means, mold, dirt, foreign material, insect infestation, decay
10 percent
2
Skin or flesh damage,
3
fermentation, scars, heat damage, insect injury, other means, mold, dirt, foreign material, insect infestation, decay
But no more than 8 percent
Mold, dirt, foreign material, insect infestation, decay
3 percent
4 percent
5 percent
5 percent.
Decay
But no more than 1 percent
But no more than 1 percent
But no more than 1 percent
But no more than 1 percent.
Total
U.S. Grade (including all factors)
1
Percentages of defects are “by weight.”
2
Except that each 1 percent of end cracks to, and including 8 percent, by weight, shall be considered as
1/2
percent damaged by end cracks; and any additional end cracks shall be calculated as true percentage, by weight.
3
Allowances for “skin or flesh damage” apply only to “Whole Unpitted” style.
[21 FR 8177, Oct. 25, 1956, as amended at 30 FR 11596, Sept. 10, 1965. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Subpart G—United States Standards for Grades of Canned Ripe Olives

# Source:
42 FR 38585, July 29, 1977, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981.

# Product Description, Types, Styles, and Grades
§ 52.3751
Product description.
Canned ripe olives are prepared from properly matured olives which have first been properly treated to remove the characteristic bitterness; are packed in a solution of sodium chloride, with or without spices, and are sufficiently processed by heat in hermetically sealed containers. Canned olives which are not oxidized in processing and which possess a tan to light bronze color indicative of preparation from olives of advanced maturity and commonly referred to as “tree-ripened” or “home-cured” are not covered by the standards in this subpart.
§ 52.3752
Types of canned ripe olives.
Canned ripe olives are processed as two distinct types. Unless a specific type is stated in this subpart, “canned ripe olives” refers to olives of either “ripe-type” or “green-ripe type.”
(a)
Ripe type.
“Ripe type” olives are those which have been treated and oxidized in processing to produce a typical dark brown to black color.
(b)
Green-ripe type.
“Green-ripe type” olives are those which have not been oxidized in processing; which range in color from yellow-green; green-yellow or other greenish casts; and which may be mottled.
§ 52.3753
Styles of canned ripe olives.
(a)
Whole.
“Whole” olives are those which have not been pitted.
(b)
Pitted.
“Pitted” olives are those from which pits have been removed.
(c)
Halved.
“Halved” olives are pitted olives in which each olive is cut lengthwise into two approximately equal parts.
(d)
Segmented.
“Segmented” olives are pitted olives in which each olive is cut lengthwise into three or more approximately equal parts.
(e)
Sliced.
“Sliced” olives consist of parallel slices of fairly uniform thickness prepared from pitted olives.
(f)
Chopped.
“Chopped” olives are random-size cut pieces or cut bits prepared from pitted olives.
(g)
Broken pitted.
“Broken pitted” olives consist substantially of large pieces that may have been broken in pitting but have not been sliced or cut.
§ 52.3754
Size designations for whole and pitted styles.
(a)
General.
(1) “Average count” for canned whole ripe olives is determined from all containers in the sample and is calculated on the basis of the drained weight of the olives.
(2) Diameters of canned whole and pitted ripe olives are determined by measuring the smallest diameters at the largest circumferences at right angles to the longitudinal axes of the olives. The longitudinal axis is a line running from the stem to the apex of the olive.
(b)
Size determination.
Size of canned whole or pitted olives shall conform to the applicable count per pound range indicated in Table I in the case of whole olives, or conform closely to the applicable illustration in Table I in the
case of pitted olives. When the count per pound of whole olives falls between two count ranges, the size designation shall be the next smaller size.
EC02SE91.059
[42 FR 38585, July 29, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 39564, Aug. 4, 1981. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 48 FR 41012, Sept. 13, 1983]
§ 52.3755
Minimum drained weights.
(a)
General.
(1) The minimum drained weights for the various applicable styles in Table II and III are not incorporated in the grade of the finished product since drained weight, as such, is not a factor of quality for the purposes of these grades.
(2) The minimum drained weights are based on equalization of the product 30 days or more after the product has been canned.
(b)
Method for determining drained weight.
The drained weight of canned ripe olives is determined by emptying the contents of the container upon a U.S. Standard No. 8 circular sieve of proper diameter containing eight meshes to the inch (2.3 mm (0.0937 inch), ±3 percent, square openings) so as to distribute the product evenly
over the sieve. Without shifting the product, incline the sieve at an angle of 17 degrees to 20 degrees to facilitate drainage and allow to drain for 2 minutes. The weight of drained olives is the weight of the sieve and product less the weight of the dry sieve. A sieve 20 mm (8 inches) in diameter is used for containers with total contents of 1.5 kg (3.3 lbs) and less, and a sieve 30 mm (12 inches) in diameter is used for containers with total contents greater than 1.5 kg (3.3 lbs).
(c)
Compliance with minimum drained weights.
A lot of canned ripe olives is considered as meeting the minimum drained weights if the following criteria are met:
(1) The average of the drained weights from all the sample units in the sample is equal to or greater than the acceptance value for drained weights for the size (designated as “X
2
” in Tables II and III); and
(2) There shall be no unreasonable shortage in any individual container.
Table II—Acceptance Values for Drained Weights—Whole
211 × 304
X
d ounces
X
d grams
300 × 407
X
d ounces
X
d grams
603 × 700
X
d ounces
X
d grams
Small
4.5
127.5
7.75
219.7
66.0
1871.1
Medium
4.5
127.5
7.75
219.7
66.0
1871.1
Large
4.5
127.5
7.75
219.7
66.0
1871.1
Extra large
4.5
127.5
7.5
212.6
66.0
1871.1
Jumbo
4.0
113.4
7.25
205.5
64.0
1814.4
Colossal
4.0
113.4
7.25
205.5
64.0
1814.4
Super colossal
4.0
113.4
7.25
205.5
64.0
1814.4
Table II—Acceptance Values for Drained Weights—Pitted
211 × 304
X
d ounces
X
d grams
300 × 407
X
d ounces
X
d grams
603 × 700
X
d ounces
X
d grams
Small
3.25
92.1
6.0
170.1
51.0
1445.8
Medium
3.25
92.1
6.0
170.1
51.0
1445.8
Large
3.5
99.2
6.0
170.1
51.0
1445.8
Extra large
3.5
99.2
6.0
170.1
51.0
1445.8
Jumbo
3.25
92.1
5.75
163.0
49.0
1389.1
Colossal
3.25
92.1
5.75
163.0
49.0
1389.1
Super colossal
3.25
92.1
5.75
163.0
49.0
1389.1
Table III—Acceptance Value for Drained Weights (Ounces)
Water capacity oz. avdp.
Halved, segmented, sliced
X
d
LL
Chopped
X
d
LL
200 × 214
2.3
1.9
4.2
3.9
211 × 200
4.9
2.3
1.9
4.2
3.9
305 × 109
3.0
2.6
5.5
5.2
307 × 113
3.0
2.6
5.5
5.2
211 × 304
8.65
3.8
3.4
7.6
7.2
No. 300 (300 × 407)
15.2
6.5
6.1
13.3
12.7
No. 10 (603 × 700)
109.45
55.0
53.4
90.0
87.8
No. 10 (brine pack)
64.0
62.4
Broken Pitted
No. 300 (300 × 407)
15.2
5.6
4.7
No. 10 (603 × 700)
109.45
51.0
48.8
Table III—Acceptance Value for Drained Weights (Grams)
Water capacity
Halved, segmented, sliced
X
d
LL
Chopped
X
d
LL
200 × 214
65.2
53.9
119.1
110.6
211 × 200
138.9
65.2
53.9
119.1
110.6
305 × 109
85.0
73.7
155.9
147.4
307 × 113
85.0
73.7
155.9
147.4
211 × 304
245.2
107.7
96.4
215.4
204.1
No. 300 (300 × 407)
430.9
184.2
172.9
377.0
360.0
No. 10 (603 × 700)
3102.8
1559.2
1513.8
2551.4
2489.0
No. 10 (brine pack)
1814.3
1769.0
Broken Pitted
No. 300 (300 × 407)
430.9
158.8
133.2
No. 10 (603 × 700)
3102.8
1445.8
1383.4
[42 FR 38585, July 29, 1977; 42 FR 44542, Sept. 6, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 39566, Aug. 4, 1981. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 52.3756
Grades of canned ripe olives.
(a)
U.S. Grade A
is the quality of canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced, and chopped styles that has a good flavor, that has a good color, that is practically free from defects, that has a good character; and that for those factors which are rated in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart, the total score is not less than 90 points:
Provided,
That such canned ripe olives may have a reasonably good color if the total score is not less than 90 points; and further
Provided,
That in the styles of whole and pitted olives, the variation in diameters does not exceed 4 mm, and of the 90 percent, by count, of the most uniform in size, the diameter of the largest does not exceed the diameter of the smallest by more than 3 mm.
(b)
U.S. Grade B
is the quality of canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced, and chopped styles that has a good flavor, that has a reasonably good color, that is reasonably free from defects, that has a reasonably good character; and that for those factors which are rated in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart, the total score is not less than 80 points:
Provided,
That for the styles of whole and pitted olives, the variation in diameters does not exceed 8 mm, and of the 80 percent, by count, of the most uniform in size, the diameter of the largest does not exceed the diameter of the smallest by more than 4 mm.
(c)
U.S. Grade C
is the quality of canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced, chopped, and broken pitted styles that has a reasonably good flavor, that has a fairly good color, that is fairly free from defects, that has a fairly good character; and that for those factors which are rated in accordance with the scoring system outlined in this subpart, the total score is not less than 70 points;
Provided,
That for the styles of whole and pitted olives, of the 60 percent, by count, of the most uniform in size, the diameter of the largest does not exceed the diameter of the smallest by more that 4 mm.
(d)
Substandard
is the quality of canned ripe olives of any style that fail to meet the applicable requirements for U.S. Grade C.
[42 FR 38585, July 29, 1977. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, and amended at 48 FR 41013, Sept. 13, 1983]
§ 52.3757
Standard sample unit size.
Compliance with requirements for the various quality factors except “size designation” is based on the following standard sample unit size for the applicable style:
(a)
Whole and pitted
—50 olives.
(b)
Halved
—100 units.
(c)
All other styles
—255 g (9 ounces).
§ 52.3758
Determining the grade of a sample unit.
(a)
General.
In addition to considering other requirements outlined in the standards the following quality factors are evaluated:
(1)
Factors not rated by score points.
(i) Flavor; (ii) Uniformity of size (styles of whole and pitted only).
(2)
Factors rated by score points.
The relative importance of each factor which is scored is expressed numerically on the scale of 100. The maximum number of points that may be given such factors are:
Points
(i) Color
30
(ii) Absence of defects
40
(iii) Character
30
Total score
100
(b)
Definition of flavor
—(1)
Good flavor.
(i) “Good flavor” in ripe type means a distinctive flavor characteristic of ripe type olives (including that of properly spiced olives) which have been properly prepared and processed and which are free from objectionable flavors of any kind.
(ii) “Good Flavor” in green-ripe type means a distinctive mellow flavor characteristic of green-ripe type olives which have been properly prepared and processed and which are free from objectionable flavors of any kind.
(2)
Reasonably good flavor.
“Reasonably good flavor” in either ripe type or green-ripe type (including that of properly spiced olives) means that the flavor may be slightly lacking in distinctly characteristic flavor for the respective type but the olives are free from objectionable flavors of any kind.
§ 52.3759
Determining the rating for the factors which are scored.
The essential variations within each factor which is scored are so described that the value may be determined for each factor and expressed numerically. The numerical range within each factor which is scored is inclusive (for example “27 to 30 points” means 27, 28, 29, and 30 points).
§ 52.3760
Color.
(a)
General.
The evaluation of color shall be determined within five minutes after the olives are removed from the container and is based upon the uniformity of the exterior color or general appearance as to color of the olives within the container. The evaluation of color in “halved” style is based on the uncut surfaces.
(b)
Color measurement of ripe type.
The color of ripe type is determined by comparison with a spinning disc of variations in percentages of the following Munsell color discs: Red (5R 4/14), Yellow (2.5Y 8/12), and Black (N/1 Glossy).
(c)
Composite color standards.
Composite USDA Color Standards for Canned Ripe Olives are available and are comparable to the colors produced by the spinning discs.
(d)
Color appearance of green-ripe type.
Normal color for green-ripe type olives is yellow-green, green-yellow, or other greenish casts, any of which may have a mottled appearance that is typical of green-ripe type olives. Off-color means dark brown, dark purple or black olives.
(e) The USDA spinning color discs and the USDA composite color standards cited in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are available from the USDA licensed supplier:
Munsell Color Company, Inc., 2441 North Calvert Street, Baltimore, Md. 21218.
(f)
Grade A.
Canned ripe olives that have a good color may be given a score of 27 to 30 points. “Good color” has the following meanings with respect to the applicable type and style:
(1)
Ripe type
—(i)
Whole; pitted; halved.
The olives or units have a practically uniform black or dark brown color. Not less than 90 percent, by count, of the olives or units have a color equal to or darker than the appropriate USDA Composite Color Standard or that produced by spinning the Munsell discs specified in paragraph (b) of this section in the following combination: 3
1/2
percent Red, 3
1/2
percent Yellow, and 93 percent Black.
(ii)
Segmented; sliced, chopped.
The general color impression of the olive as a mass is normal and typical of these styles prepared from olives with good color.
(2)
Green-ripe type.
The general color appearance of the olives shall be normal. Not less than 90 percent, by count, shall be practically uniform in such normal color for the type, and no off-color olives may be present.
(g)
Grade B.
If the canned ripe olives have a reasonably good color, a score of 24 to 26 points may be given. “Reasonably good color” has the following meanings with respect to the applicable type and style:
(1)
Ripe type
—(i)
Whole; pitted; halved.
The olives or units have a reasonably uniform black, dark brown or reddish-brown color. Not less than 80 percent, by count, of the olives or units have a color equal to or darker than the appropriate USDA Composite Color Standard or that produced by spinning the Munsell color discs specified in paragraph (b) of this section in the following combination: 6 percent Red, 6 percent Yellow, and 88 percent Black.
(ii)
Segmented; sliced; chopped.
The general color impression of the olives as a mass is normal and typical of these styles prepared from olives with reasonably good color.
(2)
Green-ripe type.
The general color appearance of the olives shall be normal. Not less than 80 percent, by count, shall be reasonably uniform in such normal color for the type, and no off-color olives may be present.
(h)
Grade C.
If the ripe olives have a fairly good color, a score of 21 to 23 points may be given. Canned ripe olives that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good color” has the following meanings with respect to the applicable type and style:
(1)
Ripe type
—(i)
Whole; pitted; halved.
The olives or units have a fairly uniform black, dark brown or reddish-brown color. Not less than 60 percent, by count, of the olives or units have a color equal to or darker than the appropriate USDA Composite Color Standard or that produced by spinning the Munsell color discs specified in paragraph (b) of this section in the following combination: 6 percent Red, 6 percent Yellow, and 88 percent Black.
(ii)
Segmented; sliced; chopped.
The general color impression of the olives as a mass is normal and typical of these styles prepared from olives of fairly good color.
(iii)
Broken pitted.
The general color impression of the olives as a mass is normal and may be variable, but is typical of this style prepared from olives of good, reasonably good, or fairly good color.
(2)
Green-ripe type.
The general color impression of the olives shall be normal but may vary markedly for the type. No more than 10 percent, by count, of off-color olives may be present.
(i)
Substandard (SStd.).
Canned ripe olives that are abnormal in color for any reason or that fail to meet the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section may be given a score of 0 to 20 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.3761
Defects.
(a)
General.
The factor of absence of defects refers to the degree of freedom from harmless extraneous vegetable material, stems, and portions thereof, blemishes, wrinkles, mutilated olives, and from any other defects which affect the appearance or edibility of the product.
(b)
Definition of defects
—(1)
Blemishes
mean dark-colored surface marks in either ripe type or green-ripe olives which may or may not penetrate into the flesh. Olives or pieces of olives affected by blemishes are classified as follows:
(i)
Minor blemishes
mean surface discolorations on olives or pieces of olives which individually or collectively materially affect the appearance of the unit.
(ii)
Major blemishes
mean surface discolorations or black flesh (oxidized) on olives or pieces of olives which may or may not be associated with a soft texture below the skin and which individually or collectively seriously affect the appearance or edibility of the unit.
(iii)
Severe blemishes
mean dark brown, dark purple, or black surface areas on olives or pieces of olives of the green-ripe type; or any other blemishes, whether or not specifically defined, which severely affect the appearance or edibility of the unit.
(2)
Blowout
refers to a soft pitted olive in which the pit has been pushed out instead of cut out leaving an irregular ring of flesh that materially affects its appearance.
(3)
Broken piece
in halved, segmented, and sliced style olives means any piece of olive flesh that appears to be less than three-fourths of a full unit. Also included are poorly cut units and end slices less than one-half the average size slice.
(4)
Cross pitted
refers to olives pitted along an axis other than the stem-flower axis. A defect is a unit where the angle of these two axes exceeds 45 degrees.
(5)
Harmless extraneous vegetable material.
Harmless extraneous vegetable material (HEVM), harmless extraneous material (HEM), and extraneous vegetable material (EVM), are synonymous terms and mean any vegetable substance that is harmless.
(6)
Mechanically damaged
means a unit in whole, pitted, and halved styles that is punctured, cut or damaged by means other than pitting so that its appearance is materially affected.
(7)
Misshapen
refers to an olive that does not have a normal shape for a given variety.
(8)
Mutilated
refers to an olive in whole or pitted styles that is so pitter-torn or damaged by other means that the entire pit cavity is exposed or the appearance of the olive is seriously affected.
(9)
Obvious split pit
means a pit in an olive that can be determined visually as split.
(10)
Pitter damage
means a loss of skin and flesh from a pitted olive caused by the pitter on the cut end exceeding the area of a circle 3 mm in diameter but is not mutilated.
(11)
Plunger damage
means a loss of skin and flesh from a pitted olive equal to or exceeding the area of a circle 5 mm in diameter.
(12)
Stem
means a stem that measures 3 mm or more from the shoulder of the olive. Stems are classified as follows:
(i)
Minor stem
is a stem that measures more than 3 mm but not more than 4 mm from the shoulder of the olive.
(ii)
Major stem
is a stem that measures more than 4 mm from the shoulder of the olive.
(iii)
Detached stem,
when it measures 4 mm or more, is a defect which shall be scored as a minor stem for whole pitted, halved, and broken pitted style olives and a major stem for segmented, sliced, and chopped style olives.
(13)
Wrinkles
are grooves 0.5 mm or more in width. Classification of wrinkles shall be determined immediately after removing surface moisture and any increase in wrinkles due to dehydration after removing from the container shall not be considered. Olives or pieces of olives affected by wrinkles are classified as follows:
(i)
Minor wrinkles
are wrinkles which collectively do not more than materially affect the appearance of the unit.
(ii)
Major wrinkles
are wrinkles which collectively more than materially affect the appearance of the unit.
(c)
Grade A.
Canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced, and chopped styles that are practically free from defects may be given a score of 36 to 40 points. “Practically free from defects” means that any defects present, but not specifically limited in Table IV, may not more than slightly affect the appearance or edibility of the olives; and, in addition, specified defects may be present in all other styles except “broken pitted” not to exceed the allowances for grade A provided in Table IV.
(d)
Grade B.
If canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced, and chopped styles are reasonably free from defects, a score of 32 to 35 points may be given. Canned ripe olives that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably free from defects” means that any defects present but not specifically limited in Table V may not more than materially affect the appearance or edibility of the olives; and in addition, specified defects may be present in all other styles except “broken pitted” not to exceed the allowances for grade B provided in Table V.
(e)
Grade C.
If canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced, chopped, and broken pitted styles are fairly free from defects, a score of 28 to 31 points may be given. Canned ripe olives that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly free from defects” means
that any defects present but not specifically limited in Table VI may more than materially affect the appearance and edibility of the olives; and in addition, specified defects may be present in all other styles not to exceed the allowances for grade C provided in Table VI.
(f)
Substandard (SStd.).
Canned ripe olives that fail to meet the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section may be given a score of 0 to 27 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
Table IV—Limits for Defects In Grade A
Whole per 50 olives
Pitted per 50 olives
Halved per 100 halves
Segmented per 255 g (9 oz)
Sliced per 255 g (9 oz)
Chopped per 255 g (9 oz)
HEVM, HEM, or EVM
1
1
1
Practically free
Practically free
Practically free.
Stems:
Minor and major stems incl.
2
2
2
Major stems
1
1
1
Practically free
Practically free
Practically free.
Minor and major blemishes, minor and major wrinkles and mutilated
5
5
10
Practically free
Practically free
Practically free.
Provided:
Major blemishes, major wrinkles do not exceed
2
2
5
Further Provided: Multilated do not exceed
1
1
Broken pieces and poorly cut units
8
Practically free
Practically free
Mechanical damage
2
2
5
Blowouts, cross pitted, plunger and pitter damage
5
Obvious split pit or misshapen
2
Severe blemishes (green-ripe type only)
0
0
0
Table V—Limits for Defects in Grade B
Whole per 50 olives
Pitted per 50 olives
Halved per 100 halves
Segmented per 255 g (9 oz)
Sliced per 255 g (9 oz)
Chopped per 255 g (9 oz)
HEVM, HEM or EVM
1
1
1
Reasonably free
Reasonably free
Reasonably free.
Stems:
Minor and major stems incl.
3
3
3
Major stems
1
1
1
Reasonably free
Reasonably free
Reasonably free.
Minor and major blemishes, minor and major wrinkles and mutilated
10
10
20
Reasonably free
Reasonably free
Reasonably free.
Provided:
Major blemishes, major wrinkles do not exceed
5
5
10
Further provided:
Mutilated do not exceed
2
2
Broken pieces and poorly cut units
15
Reasonably free
Reasonably free
Mechanical damage
5
5
10
Blowouts, cross pitted, plunger and pitter damage
10
Obvious split pit or misshapen
5
Severe blemishes (green-ripe type only)
0
0
0
Table VI—Limits for Defects in Grade C
Whole per 50 olives
Pitted per 50 olives
Halved per 100 halved
Segmented per 255 g (9 oz.)
Sliced per 255 g (9 oz.)
Chopped per 255 g (9 oz.)
Broken Pitted per 255 g (9 oz.)
HEVM, HEM, or EVM
1
1
1
Fairly free
Fairly free
Fairly free
2
Minor and major stems inclusive
4
4
4
Major stems
2
2
2
Fairly free
Fairly free
Fairly free
4
Minor, major blemishes, major, minor wrinkles
No limit
No limit
No limit
Fairly free
Fairly free
Fairly free
No limit.
Provided:
Major blemishes, major wrinkles do not exceed
13
13
25
51 g
1
Further Provided:
Multilated, major blemish and major wrinkles do not exceed
15
15
30
Multilated do not exceed
5
5
10
No limit.
Broken pieces and poorly cut units
25
Fairly free
Fairly free
Mechanical damage
10
10
20
Blowouts, cross pitted, plunger and pitter damaged
15
Obvious split pit or misshapen
No limit
Severe blemishes (green-ripe type only)
3
3
3
0
0
0
1
Major blemishes only.
[48 FR 41013, Sept. 13, 1983]
§ 52.3762
Character.
(a)
General.
The factor of character refers to the firmness, tenderness, and texture characteristics for the variety and type.
(b)
Grade A.
Canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced, and chopped styles that have a good character may be given a score of 27 to 30 points. “Good character” means that, for the type, the olives have a fleshy texture characteristic for the variety and size; that not less than 95 percent, by count, of whole, pitted and halved olives and by weight of other style olives are practically uniform in texture and are tender but not soft. The remaining 5 percent may be soft but not excessively soft.
(c)
Grade B.
If canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced and chopped styles have a reasonably good character, a score of 24 to 26 points may be given. Canned ripe olives that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably good character” means that, for the type, the olives generally have a fleshy texture characteristic for the variety and size; that not less than 90 percent, by count, of whole, pitted and halved olives, and by weight of other style olives are practically uniform in texture and are tender but not soft. The 10 percent may be soft but not more than
1/2
, or 5 percent, may be excessively soft.
(d)
Grade C.
If canned ripe olives of whole, pitted, halved, segmented, sliced, chopped and broken pitted styles have a fairly good character, a score of 21 to 23 points may be given. Canned ripe olives that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good character” means that the olives generally have a fleshy texture characteristic for the variety and size; that not less than 80 percent, by count, of whole, pitted and halved olives and by weight of other style olives are practically uniform in texture and are tender but not soft. The remaining 20 percent may be soft but not more than
1/2
, or 10 percent, may be excessively soft.
(e)
Substandard
(
SStd
). Canned ripe olives that fail to meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section may be given a score of 0 to 20 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).
§ 52.3763
Determining the grade of a lot.
The grade of a lot of canned ripe olives covered by these standards is determined by the procedures set forth in the Regulations Governing Inspection and Certification of Processed Fruits and Vegetables, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products (§§ 52.1 through 52.83).
§ 52.3764
Score sheet.
Number, size and kind of container
Label (including size declaration)
Container mark or identification
Net weight (ounces)
Vacuum (inches)
Drained weight (ounces)
Size
Style
Average count per pound (whole style)
Factors
Score points
Color
30
(A)
27-30
(B)
24-26
(C)
1
21-23
(SStd.)
1
0-20
Absence of defects
40
(A)
(B)
36-40
1
32-35
(C)
1
28-31
(SStd.)
1
0-27
Character
30
(A)
27-30
(B)
1
24-26
(C)
1
21-23
(SStd.)
1
0-20
Total Score
100
Flavor: ( ) Good ( ) Reasonably good ( )
Off
Grade
−−s0
1
Indicates limiting rule.

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts, and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
7 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
7 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter I
27—45 (Subchapter A) Heading revised
7444
27.1—27.100 (Subpart A) Heading revised
7444
28.1—28.165 (Subpart A) Heading revised
7444
29.1—29.3 (Subpart A) Heading revised
7444
29.12—29.500 (Subpart B) Heading revised
7444
29.9201—29.9281 (Subpart F) Heading revised
7444
29.9401—29.9407 (Subpart G) Heading revised
7444
33 Heading revised
7444
33.10—33.11 Undesignated center heading revised
7444
33.50—33.60 Undesignated center heading revised
7444
35.7 Footnote removed; section amended
7444
46 Heading revised
7444
47 Heading revised
7444
47.5 Heading revised
7444
47.6—47.25 Undesignated center heading revised
7444
47.46 Undesignated center heading and section heading revised
7444
47.47—47.49 Undesignated center heading revised
7444
48 Heading revised
7444
50 Heading revised
7445
50.1 Heading revised
7445
50.10—50.12 (Subpart B) Heading revised
7445
51—75 (Subchapter C) Heading revised
19379
51 Heading revised; footnotes removed
19379
51.1—51.62 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart A
19379
51.1 Heading revised; (c) added
19379
51.2 (n) through (u) redesignated as (o) through (v); new (n) added
19379
51.300—51.322 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart B
19379
51.340—51.349 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart C
19379
51.620—51.653 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart D
19379
51.620—51.653 (Subpart D) Heading revised
68422
51.620 Revised
68422
51.621 Revised
68422
51.623 Revised
68423
51.624 Revised
68423
51.625 Revised
68423
51.626 Revised
68423
51.627 Revised
68423
51.628 Revised
68423
51.629 Undesignated center heading and section revised
68424
51.630 Revised
68424
51.637 Revised
68424
51.642 Revised
68424
51.646 Revised
68424
51.650 Revised
68424
51.652 Revised
68424
51.680—51.714 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart E
19379
51.680—51.714 (Subpart E) Revised
68426
51.681 Revised
68426
51.682 Revised
68426
51.684 Revised
68426
51.685 Revised
68426
51.686 Revised
68426
51.687 Revised
68426
51.688 Revised
68426
51.689 Revised
68427
51.690 Undesignated center heading and section revised
68427
51.691 Revised
68427
51.699 Revised
68427
51.702 Revised
68427
51.708 Revised
68428
51.711 Revised
68428
51.713 Revised
68428
51.750—51.784 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart F
19379
51.880—51.914 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart G
19379
51.1140—51.1179 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart H
19379
51.1235—51.1242 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart I
19379
51.1260—51.1280 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart J; footnote removed
19379
51.1300—51.1323 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart K
19379
51.1345—51.1359 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart L
19379
51.1400—51.1416 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart M
19379
51.1430—51.1451 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart N
19379
51.1520—51.1538 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart O
19379
51.1540—51.1566 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart P
19379
51.1575—51.1587 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart Q
19379
51.1810—51.1837 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart R
19379
51.1855—51.1877 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart S
19379
51.1900—51.1913 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart T
19379
51.1995—51.2009 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart U
19380
51.2075—51.2091 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart V
19380
51.2105—51.2131 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart W
19380
51.2275—51.2296 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart X
19380
51.2335—51.2341 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart Y
19380
51.2540—51.2549 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart Z
19380
51.2555—51.2562 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart AA
19380
51.2646—51.2660 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart BB
19380
51.2710—51.2721 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart CC
19380
51.2730—51.2741 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart DD
19380
51.2750—51.2763 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart EE
19380
51.2830—51.2854 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart FF
19380
51.2945—51.2966 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart GG
19380
51.3050—51.3069 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart HH
19380
51.3195—51.3212 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart II
19380
51.3410—51.3418 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart JJ
19380
52 Heading revised; note preceeding authority citation removed; footnote removed
19380
52.1—52.83 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart A
19380
52.2 Amended
19380
52.771—52.784 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart B
19380
52.801—52.812 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart C
19380
52.1001—52.1011 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart D
19380
52.1841—52.1858 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart E
19381
52.3181—52.3188 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart F
19381
52.3751—52.3764 (Subpart) Redesignated as Subpart G
19381
2021-2022
(No regulations published)
2023
7 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter I
27.93 Amended
49994
27.93 Amended
69529
27.94 (a) revised
49994
52.1846 (a), (b), (c), and table following (d) amended; table following (d) heading revised
71460
52.1849 Amended
71461
52.1852 (a), (b), and (c) amended; table following (d) heading revised; table following (d) amended
71461
52.1853 (a) and (b) amended; table heading revised
71461
52.1855 (a), (b), (c), and Table IV amended; Table following (d) heading revised
71461
52.1857 Table V amended; (a) and (b) amended; Table following (c) heading revised
71461
2024
7 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter I
51.37 Revised; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.39 Redesignated as 51.40; new section added; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.40 Redesignated as 51.41; new section redesignated from 51.39; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.41 Redesignated as 51.42; new section redesignated from 51.40; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.42 Redesignated as 51.43; new section redesignated from 51.41; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.43 Redesignated as 51.44; new section redesignated from 51.42; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.44 Redesignated as 51.45; new section redesignated from 51.43; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.45 Redesignated as 51.46; new section redesignated from 51.44; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.46 Redesignated as 51.47; new section redesignated from 51.45; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.47 Redesignated as 51.48; new section redesignated from 51.46; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.48 Redesignated as 51.49; new section redesignated from 51.47; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.49 Redesignated as 51.50; new section redesignated from 51.48; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.50 Redesignated as 51.51; new section redesignated from 51.49; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.51 Redesignated as 51.52; new section redesignated from 51.50; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.52 Redesignated as 51.53; new section redesignated from 51.51; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.53 Redesignated as 51.54; new section redesignated from 51.52; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.54 Redesignated as 51.55; new section redesignated from 51.53; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.55 Redesignated as 51.56; new section redesignated from 51.54; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.56 Redesignated as 51.57; new section redesignated from 51.55; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.57 Redesignated as 51.58; new section redesignated from 51.56; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.58 Redesignated as 51.59; new section redesignated from 51.57; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.59 Redesignated as 51.60; new section redesignated from 51.58; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.60 Redesignated as 51.61; new section redesignated from 51.59; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.61 Redesignated as 51.62; new section redesignated from 51.60; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.62 Redesignated as 51.63; new section redesignated from 51.61; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.63 Redesignated from 51.62; eff. 1-29-25
106234
51.1400—51.1418 (Subpart M) Revised
53341
51.1430—51.1453 (Subpart N) Revised
53343
○
