Severability.
463.9
Relation to State laws.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 41
et seq.;
12 U.S.C. 5519.

# Source:
89 FR 693, Jan. 4, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 693, Jan. 4, 2024, part 463 was added, effective July 30, 2024. At 89 FR 13267, Feb. 22, 2024, the effective date was delayed indefinitely.
§ 463.1
Authority.
This part is promulgated pursuant to section 1029 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, 12 U.S.C. 5519(d). It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice within the meaning of section 5(a)(1) of
the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45(a)(1)) to violate any applicable provision of this part, directly or indirectly, including the recordkeeping requirements which are necessary to prevent such unfair or deceptive acts or practices and to enforce this part.
§ 463.2
Definitions.
(a) “Add-on” or “Add-on product(s) or Service(s)” means any product(s) or service(s) not provided to the consumer or installed on the Vehicle by the Vehicle manufacturer and for which the Dealer, directly or indirectly, charges a consumer in connection with a Vehicle sale, lease, or financing transaction.
(b)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) “Clear(ly) and Conspicuous(ly)” means in a manner that is difficult to miss (
i.e.,
easily noticeable) and easily understandable, including in all of the following ways:
(1) In any communication that is solely visual or solely audible, the disclosure must be made through the same means through which the communication is presented. In any communication made through both visual and audible means, such as a television advertisement, the disclosure must be presented simultaneously in both the visual and audible portions of the communication even if the representation requiring the disclosure is made in only one means.
(2) A visual disclosure, by its size, contrast, location, the length of time it appears, and other characteristics, must stand out from any accompanying text or other visual elements so that it is easily noticed, read, and understood.
(3) An audible disclosure, including by telephone or streaming video, must be delivered in a volume, speed, and cadence sufficient for ordinary consumers to easily hear and understand it.
(4) In any communication using an interactive electronic medium, such as the internet or software, the disclosure must be unavoidable.
(5) The disclosure must use diction and syntax understandable to ordinary consumers and must appear in each language in which the representation that requires the disclosure appears.
(6) The disclosure must comply with these requirements in each medium through which it is received.
(7) The disclosure must not be contradicted or mitigated by, or inconsistent with, anything else in the communication.
(e) “Covered Motor Vehicle” or “Vehicle” means any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a public street, highway, or road. For purposes of this part, the term Covered Motor Vehicle does not include the following:
(1) Recreational boats and marine equipment;
(2) Motorcycles, scooters, and electric bicycles;
(3) Motor homes, recreational vehicle trailers, and slide-in campers; or
(4) Golf carts.
(f) “Covered Motor Vehicle Dealer” or “Dealer” means any person, including any individual or entity, or resident in the United States, or any territory of the United States, that:
(1) Is licensed by a State, a territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia to engage in the sale of Covered Motor Vehicles;
(2) Takes title to, holds an ownership interest in, or takes physical custody of Covered Motor Vehicles; and
(3) Is predominantly engaged in the sale and servicing of Covered Motor Vehicles, the leasing and servicing of Covered Motor Vehicles, or both.
(g) “Express, Informed Consent” means an affirmative act communicating unambiguous assent to be charged, made after receiving and in close proximity to a Clear and Conspicuous disclosure, in writing, and also orally for in-person transactions, of the following:
(1) What the charge is for; and
(2) The amount of the charge, including, if the charge is for a product or service, all fees and costs to be charged to the consumer over the period of repayment with and without the product or service. The following are examples of what does not constitute Express, Informed Consent:
(i) A signed or initialed document, by itself;
(ii) Prechecked boxes; or
(iii) An agreement obtained through any practice designed or manipulated
with the substantial effect of subverting or impairing user autonomy, decision-making, or choice.
(h) “GAP Agreement” means an agreement to indemnify a Vehicle purchaser or lessee for any of the difference between the actual cash value of the Vehicle in the event of an unrecovered theft or total loss and the amount owed on the Vehicle pursuant to the terms of a loan, lease agreement, or installment sales contract used to purchase or lease the Vehicle, or to waive the unpaid difference between money received from the purchaser's or lessee's Vehicle insurer and some or all of the amount owed on the Vehicle at the time of the unrecovered theft or total loss, including products or services otherwise titled “Guaranteed Automobile Protection Agreement,” “Guaranteed Asset Protection Agreement,” “GAP insurance,” or “GAP Waiver.”
(i) “Government Charges” means all fees or charges imposed by a Federal, State, or local government agency, unit, or department, including taxes, license and registration costs, inspection or certification costs, and any other such fees or charges.
(j) “Material” or “Materially” means likely to affect a person's choice of, or conduct regarding, goods or services.
(k) “Offering Price” means the full cash price for which a Dealer will sell or finance the Vehicle to any consumer, provided that the Dealer may exclude only required Government Charges.
§ 463.3
Prohibited misrepresentations.
It is a violation of this part and an unfair or deceptive act or practice in violation of section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act for any Covered Motor Vehicle Dealer to make any misrepresentation, expressly or by implication, regarding Material information about the following:
(a) The costs or terms of purchasing, financing, or leasing a Vehicle.
(b) Any costs, limitation, benefit, or any other aspect of an Add-on Product or Service.
(c) Whether the terms are, or transaction is, for financing or a lease.
(d) The availability of any rebates or discounts that are factored into the advertised price but not available to all consumers.
(e) The availability of Vehicles at an advertised price.
(f) Whether any consumer has been or will be preapproved or guaranteed for any product, service, or term.
(g) Any information on or about a consumer's application for financing.
(h) When the transaction is final or binding on all parties.
(i) Keeping cash down payments or trade-in Vehicles, charging fees, or initiating legal process or any action if a transaction is not finalized or if the consumer does not wish to engage in a transaction.
(j) Whether or when a Dealer will pay off some or all of the financing or lease on a consumer's trade-in Vehicle.
(k) Whether consumer reviews or ratings are unbiased, independent, or ordinary consumer reviews or ratings of the Dealer or the Dealer's products or services.
(l) Whether the Dealer or any of the Dealer's personnel or products or services is or was affiliated with, endorsed or approved by, or otherwise associated with the United States government or any Federal, State, or local government agency, unit, or department, including the United States Department of Defense or its Military Departments.
(m) Whether consumers have won a prize or sweepstakes.
(n) Whether, or under what circumstances, a Vehicle may be moved, including across State lines or out of the country.
(o) Whether, or under what circumstances, a Vehicle may be repossessed.
(p) Any of the required disclosures identified in this part.
(q) The requirements in this section also are prescribed for the purpose of preventing the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined in this part, including those in §§ 463.4 and 463.5.
§ 463.4
Disclosure requirements.
It is a violation of this part and an unfair or deceptive act or practice in violation of section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act for any Covered Motor Vehicle Dealer to fail to make any disclosure required by this section, Clearly and Conspicuously.
(a)
Offering Price.
In connection with the sale or financing of Vehicles, a Vehicle's Offering Price must be disclosed:
(1) In any advertisement that references, expressly or by implication, a specific Vehicle;
(2) In any advertisement that represents, expressly or by implication, any monetary amount or financing term for any Vehicle; and
(3) In any communication with a consumer that includes a reference, expressly or by implication, regarding a specific Vehicle, or any monetary amount or financing term for any Vehicle. With respect to such communications:
(i) The Offering Price for the Vehicle must be disclosed in the Dealer's first response regarding that specific Vehicle to the consumer; and
(ii) If the communication or response is in writing, the Offering Price must be disclosed in writing. The requirements in this paragraph (a) also are prescribed for the purpose of preventing the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined in this part, including those in §§ 463.3(a) and (b) and 463.5(c).
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Add-ons not required.
When making any representation, expressly or by implication, directly or indirectly, about an Add-on Product or Service, the Dealer must disclose that the Add-on is not required and the consumer can purchase or lease the Vehicle without the Add-on, if true. If the representation is in writing, the disclosure must be in writing. The requirements in this paragraph (c) also are prescribed for the purpose of preventing the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined in this part, including those in §§ 463.3(a) and (b) and 463.5(c).
(d)
Total of payments and consideration for a financed or lease transaction.
(1) When making any representation, expressly or by implication, directly or indirectly, about a monthly payment for any Vehicle, the Dealer must disclose the total amount the consumer will pay to purchase or lease the Vehicle at that monthly payment after making all payments as scheduled. If the representation is in writing, the disclosure must be in writing.
(2) If the total amount disclosed assumes the consumer will provide consideration (for example, in the form of a cash down payment or trade-in valuation), the Dealer must disclose the amount of consideration to be provided by the consumer. If the representation is in writing, the disclosure must be in writing.
(3) The requirements in this paragraph (d) also are prescribed for the purpose of preventing the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined in this part, including those in §§ 463.3(a) and 463.5(c).
(e)
Monthly payments comparison.
When making any comparison between payment options, expressly or by implication, directly or indirectly, that includes discussion of a lower monthly payment, the Dealer must disclose that the lower monthly payment will increase the total amount the consumer will pay to purchase or lease the Vehicle, if true. If the representation is in writing, the disclosure must be in writing. The requirements in this paragraph (e) also are prescribed for the purpose of preventing the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined in this part, including those in §§ 463.3(a) and 463.5(c).
§ 463.5
Dealer charges for Add-ons and other items.
It is a violation of this part and an unfair or deceptive act or practice in violation of section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act for any Covered Motor Vehicle Dealer, in connection with the sale or financing of Vehicles, to charge for any of the following.
(a)
Add-ons that provide no benefit.
A Dealer may not charge for an Add-on Product or Service if the consumer would not benefit from such an Add-on Product or Service, including:
(1) Nitrogen-filled tire-related products or services that contain no more nitrogen than naturally exists in the air; or
(2) Products or services that do not provide coverage for the Vehicle, the consumer, or the transaction or that are duplicative of warranty coverage for the Vehicle, including a GAP Agreement if the consumer's Vehicle or neighborhood is excluded from coverage or the loan-to-value ratio would
result in the consumer not benefiting financially from the product or service.
(3) The requirements in this paragraph (a) also are prescribed for the purpose of preventing the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined in this part, including those in § 463.3(a) and (b) and paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Any item without Express, Informed Consent.
A Dealer may not charge a consumer for any item unless the Dealer obtains the Express, Informed Consent of the consumer for the charge. The requirements in this paragraph (c) also are prescribed for the purpose of preventing the unfair or deceptive acts or practices defined in this part, including those in §§ 463.3(a) and (b), 463.4, and paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 463.6
Recordkeeping.
(a) Any Covered Motor Vehicle Dealer subject to this part must create and retain, for a period of twenty-four months from the date the record is created, all records necessary to demonstrate compliance with this part, including the following records:
(1) Copies of all Materially different advertisements, sales scripts, training materials, and marketing materials regarding the price, financing, or lease of a Vehicle, that the Dealer disseminated during the relevant time period;
Provided that
a typical example of a credit or lease advertisement may be retained for advertisements that include different Vehicles, or different amounts for the same credit or lease terms, where the advertisements are otherwise not Materially different;
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Copies of all purchase orders; financing and lease documents with the Dealer signed by the consumer, whether or not final approval is received for a financing or lease transaction; and all written communications relating to sales, financing, or leasing between the Dealer and any consumer who signs a purchase order or financing or lease contract with the Dealer;
(4) Records demonstrating that Add-ons in consumers' contracts meet the requirements of § 463.5, including copies of all service contracts, GAP Agreements and calculations of loan-to-value ratios in contracts including GAP Agreements; and
(5) Copies of all written consumer complaints relating to sales, financing, or leasing, inquiries related to Add-ons, and inquiries and responses about Vehicles referenced in § 463.4.
(b) Any Dealer subject to this part may keep the records required by paragraph (a) of this section in any legible form, and in the same manner, format, or place as they may already keep such records in the ordinary course of business. Failure to keep all records required under paragraph (a) of this section will be a violation of this part.
§ 463.7
Waiver not permitted.
It is a violation of this part for any person to obtain, or attempt to obtain, a waiver from any consumer of any protection provided by or any right of the consumer under this part.
§ 463.8
Severability.
The provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, it is the Commission's intention that the remaining provisions will continue in effect.
§ 463.9
Relation to State laws.
(a)
In general.
This part will not be construed as superseding, altering, or affecting any other State statute, regulation, order, or interpretation relating to Covered Motor Vehicle Dealer requirements, except to the extent that such statute, regulation, order, or interpretation is inconsistent with the provisions of this part, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency.
(b)
Greater protection under State law.
For purposes of this section, a State statute, regulation, order, or interpretation is not inconsistent with the provisions of this part if the protection such statute, regulation, order, or interpretation affords any consumer is greater than the protection provided under this part.
Pt. 465

# PART 465—RULE ON THE USE OF CONSUMER REVIEWS AND TESTIMONIALS
Sec.
465.1
Definitions.
465.2
Fake or false consumer reviews, consumer testimonials, or celebrity testimonials.
465.3
[Reserved]
465.4
Buying positive or negative consumer reviews.
465.5
Insider consumer reviews and consumer testimonials.
465.6
Company-controlled review websites or entities.
465.7
Review suppression.
465.8
Misuse of fake indicators of social media influence.
465.9
Severability

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 57a.

# Source:
89 FR 68077, Aug. 22, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 465.1
Definitions.
(a)
Business
means an individual who sells products or services, a partnership that sells products or services, a corporation that sells products or services, or any other commercial entity that sells products or services.
(b)
Celebrity testimonial
means an advertising or promotional message (including verbal statements, demonstrations, or depictions of the name, signature, likeness, or other identifying personal characteristics of an individual) that consumers are likely to believe reflects the opinions, beliefs, or experiences of a well-known individual who purchased, used, or otherwise had experience with a product, service, or business.
(c)
Clear and conspicuous
means that a required disclosure is easily noticeable (
i.e.,
difficult to miss) and easily understandable by ordinary consumers, including in all of the following ways:
(1) In any communication that is solely visual or solely audible, the disclosure must be made through the same means through which the communication is presented. In any communication made through both visual and audible means, such as a television advertisement, the disclosure must be presented in at least the same means as the representation(s) requiring the disclosure.
(2) A visual disclosure, by its size, contrast, location, the length of time it appears, and other characteristics, must stand out from any accompanying text or other visual elements so that it is easily noticed, read, and understood.
(3) An audible disclosure, including by telephone or streaming video, must be delivered in a volume, speed, and cadence sufficient for ordinary consumers to easily hear and understand it.
(4) In any communication using an interactive electronic medium, such as social media or the internet, the disclosure must be unavoidable. A disclosure is not clear and conspicuous if a consumer must take any action, such as clicking on a hyperlink or hovering over an icon, to see it.
(5) The disclosure must use diction and syntax understandable to ordinary consumers and must appear in each language in which the representation that requires the disclosure appears.
(6) The disclosure must comply with these requirements in each medium through which it is received, including all electronic devices and face-to-face communications.
(7) The disclosure must not be contradicted or mitigated by, or inconsistent with, anything else in the communication.
(8) When the representation or sales practice targets a specific audience, such as children, the elderly, or the terminally ill, “ordinary consumers” includes members of that group.
(d)
Consumer review
means a consumer's evaluation, or a purported consumer's evaluation, of a product, service, or business that is submitted by the consumer or purported consumer and that is published to a website or platform dedicated in whole or in part to receiving and displaying such evaluations. For the purposes of this part, consumer reviews include consumer ratings regardless of whether they include any text or narrative.
(e)
Consumer review hosting
means providing the technological means by which a website or platform enables consumers to see or hear the consumer reviews that consumers have submitted to the website or platform.
(f)
Consumer testimonial
means an advertising or promotional message (including verbal statements, demonstrations, or depictions of the name, signature, likeness, or other identifying personal characteristics of an individual)
that consumers are likely to believe reflects the opinions, beliefs, or experiences of a consumer who has purchased, used, or otherwise had experience with a product, service, or business.
(g)
Distribute fake indicators of social media influence
means the distribution of fake indicators of social media influence to individuals or businesses who could use the indicators to misrepresent their influence.
(h)
Fake indicators of social media influence
means indicators of social media influence generated by bots, purported individual accounts not associated with a real individual, accounts created with a real individual's personal information without their consent, or hijacked accounts, or that otherwise do not reflect a real individual's or entity's activities, opinions, findings, or experiences.
(i)
Immediate Relative
means a spouse, parent, child, or sibling.
(j)
Indicators of social media influence
means any metrics used by the public to make assessments of an individual's or entity's social media influence, such as followers, friends, connections, subscribers, views, plays, likes, saves, shares, reposts, and comments.
(k)
Manager
means an employee of a business who supervises other employees or agents and who either holds the title of a “manager” or otherwise serves in a managerial role.
(l)
Officers
include owners, executives, and managing members of a business.
(m)
Purchase a consumer review
means to provide something of value, such as money, gift certificates, products, services, discounts, coupons, contest entries, or another review, in exchange for a consumer review.
(n)
Reviewer
means the author or purported author of a consumer review.
(o)
Testimonialist
means the individual giving or purportedly giving a consumer testimonial or celebrity testimonial.
(p) An
unfounded or groundless legal threat
is a legal threat based on claims, defenses, or other legal contentions unwarranted by existing law or based on factual contentions that have no evidentiary support or will likely have no evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery.
§ 465.2
Fake or false consumer reviews, consumer testimonials, or celebrity testimonials.
(a) It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for a business to write, create, or sell a consumer review, consumer testimonial, or celebrity testimonial that materially misrepresents, expressly or by implication:
(1) That the reviewer or testimonialist exists;
(2) That the reviewer or testimonialist used or otherwise had experience with the product, service, or business that is the subject of the review or testimonial; or
(3) The reviewer's or testimonialist's experience with the product, service, or business that is the subject of the review or testimonial.
(b) It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for a business to purchase a consumer review, or to disseminate or cause the dissemination of a consumer testimonial or celebrity testimonial, about the business or one of the products or services it sells, which the business knew or should have known materially misrepresented, expressly or by implication:
(1) That the reviewer or testimonialist exists;
(2) That the reviewer or testimonialist used or otherwise had experience with the product, service, or business that is the subject of the review or testimonial; or
(3) The reviewer's or testimonialist's experience with the product, service, or business that is the subject of the review or testimonial.
(c) It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for a business to procure a consumer review from its officers, managers, employees, or agents, or any of their immediate relatives, for posting on a third-party platform or website, when the review is about the business or one of the products or services it sells, and when the business knew or should have known that the review materially misrepresented, expressly or by implication:
(1) That the reviewer exists;
(2) That the reviewer used or otherwise had experience with the product, service, or business that is the subject of the review; or
(3) The reviewer's experience with the product, service, or business that is the subject of the review.
(d) However, paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to:
(1) Reviews or testimonials that resulted from a business making generalized solicitations to purchasers to post reviews or testimonials about their experiences with the product, service, or business; or
(2) Reviews that appear on a website or platform as a result of the business merely engaging in consumer review hosting.
§ 465.3
[Reserved]
§ 465.4
Buying positive or negative consumer reviews.
It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for a business to provide compensation or other incentives in exchange for, or conditioned expressly or by implication on, the writing or creation of consumer reviews expressing a particular sentiment, whether positive or negative, regarding the product, service, or business that is the subject of the review.
§ 465.5
Insider consumer reviews and consumer testimonials.
(a) It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for an officer or manager of a business to write or create a consumer review or consumer testimonial about the business or one of the products or services it sells that fails to have a clear and conspicuous disclosure of the officer's or manager's material relationship to the business, unless, in the case of a consumer testimonial, the relationship is otherwise clear to the audience.
(b)(1) It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for a business to disseminate or cause the dissemination of a consumer testimonial about the business or one of the products or services it sells by one of its officers, managers, employees, or agents, which fails to have a clear and conspicuous disclosure of the testimonialist's material relationship to the business, when the relationship is not otherwise clear to the audience and the business knew or should have known the testimonialist's relationship to the business.
(2) However, paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to:
(i) Generalized solicitations to purchasers for them to post testimonials about their experiences with the product, service, or business, or
(ii) Merely engaging in consumer review hosting.
(c)(1) It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for an officer or manager of a business to solicit or demand a consumer review about the business or one of the products or services it sells from any of their immediate relatives or from any employee or agent of the business, or to solicit or demand that such employees or agents seek such reviews from their relatives, when:
(i) The solicitation or demand results in an officer's or manager's immediate relatives, an employee or agent, or the immediate relatives of an employee or agent writing or creating such a review without a disclosure of the reviewer's material relationship to the business, and
(ii) The officer or manager:
(A) Encouraged the prospective reviewer not to make such a disclosure,
(B) Did not instruct that prospective reviewers disclose clearly and conspicuously their relationship to the business, or
(C) knew or should have known that such a review appeared without such a disclosure and failed to take remedial steps.
(2) However, paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply to generalized solicitations to purchasers for them to post reviews about their experiences with the product, service, or business.
§ 465.6
Company-controlled review websites or entities.
It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for a business to materially misrepresent, expressly or by implication, that a website, organization, or entity that it controls, owns, or operates provides
independent reviews or opinions, other than consumer reviews, about a category of businesses, products, or services including the business or one or more of the products or services it sells.
§ 465.7
Review suppression.
It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part:
(a) For anyone to use an unfounded or groundless legal threat, a physical threat, intimidation, or a public false accusation in response to a consumer review that is made with the knowledge that the accusation was false or made with reckless disregard as to its truth or falsity, in an attempt to:
(1) Prevent a review or any portion thereof from being written or created, or
(2) Cause a review or any portion thereof to be removed, whether or not that review or a portion thereof is replaced with other content, or
(b) For a business to materially misrepresent, expressly or by implication, that the consumer reviews of one or more of the products or services it sells displayed in a portion of its website or platform dedicated in whole or in part to receiving and displaying consumer reviews represent most or all the reviews submitted to the website or platform when reviews are being suppressed (
i.e.,
not displayable) based upon their ratings or their negative sentiment. For purposes of this paragraph, a review is not considered suppressed based upon rating or negative sentiment if the suppression occurs based on criteria for withholding reviews that are applied equally to all reviews submitted without regard to sentiment, such as when:
(1) The review contains:
(i) Trade secrets or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information,
(ii) Defamatory, harassing, abusive, obscene, vulgar, or sexually explicit content,
(iii) The personal information or likeness of another individual,
(iv) Content that is discriminatory with respect to race, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, or another intrinsic characteristic, or
(v) Content that is clearly false or misleading;
(2) The seller reasonably believes the review is fake; or
(3) The review is wholly unrelated to the products or services offered by or available at the website or platform.
§ 465.8
Misuse of fake indicators of social media influence.
It is an unfair or deceptive act or practice and a violation of this part for anyone to:
(a) Sell or distribute fake indicators of social media influence that they knew or should have known to be fake and that can be used by individuals or businesses to materially misrepresent their influence or importance for a commercial purpose; or
(b) Purchase or procure fake indicators of social media influence that they knew or should have known to be fake and that materially misrepresent their influence or importance for a commercial purpose.
§ 465.9
Severability.
The provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, the remaining provisions will continue in effect.

# SUBCHAPTER E—RULES, REGULATIONS, STATEMENT OF GENERAL POLICY OR INTERPRETATION AND EXEMPTIONS UNDER THE FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING ACT
Pt. 500

# PART 500—REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 4 OF THE FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING ACT
Sec.
500.1
Scope of the regulations of this part.
500.2
Terms defined.
500.3
Prohibited acts, coverage, general labeling requirements, exemption procedures.
500.4
Statement of identity.
500.5
Name and place of business of manufacturer, packer or distributor.
500.6
Net quantity of contents declaration, location.
500.7
Net quantity of contents, method of expression.
500.8
Units of weight or mass and measure.
500.9
Units of weight or mass, how expressed.
500.10
Units of fluid measure, how expressed.
500.11
Measurement of commodity length, how expressed.
500.12
Measurement of commodities by length and width, how expressed.
500.13
Measurement of commodities by area measure only, how expressed.
500.14
Statements of cubic measure and dry measure.
500.15
Units of count, more than one ply.
500.16
Measurement of container type commodities, how expressed.
500.17
Fractions.
500.18
SI metric prefixes.
500.19
Conversion of SI metric quantities to inch/pound quantities and inch/pound quantities to SI metric quantities.
500.20
Conspicuousness.
500.21
Type size in relationship to the area of the principal display panel.
500.22
Abbreviations.
500.23
Expression of net quantity of contents in SI Metric units.
500.24
Supplemental statements.
500.25
Net quantity, average quantity, permitted variations.
500.26
Representations of servings, uses, applications.
500.27
Multiunit packages.
500.28
Variety packages.
500.29
Combination packages.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1453, 1454, 1455.

# Source:
59 FR 1872, Jan. 12, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 500.1
Scope of the regulations of this part.
The regulations in this part establish requirements for labeling of consumer commodities as hereinafter defined with respect to identity of the commodity; the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor; the net quantity of contents; and net quantity of servings, uses, or applications represented to be present.
§ 500.2
Terms defined.
As used in this part, unless the context otherwise specifically requires:
(a) The term
Act
means the “Fair Packaging and Labeling Act” (Pub. L. 89-755, approved Nov. 3, 1966; 80 Stat. 1296
et seq.;
15 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.,
as amended by Public Law 102-329, August 3, 1992).
(b) The term
regulation
or
regulations
means regulations promulgated by the Commission pursuant to sections 4, 5, and 6 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1453, 1454, 1455).
(c) The term
consumer commodity
or
commodity
means any article, product, or commodity of any kind or class which is customarily produced or distributed for sale through retail sales agencies or instrumentalities for consumption by individuals, or use by individuals for purposes of personal care or in the performance of services ordinarily rendered within the household, and which usually is consumed or expended in the course of such consumption or use. For purposes of the regulations in this part the term
consumer commodity
does not include any food, drug, device or cosmetic as defined by section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321); any meat or meat product, poultry or poultry product, or tobacco or tobacco product; any commodity subject to packaging or labeling requirements imposed by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.
); any commodity subject to
the provisions of the eighth paragraph under the heading “Bureau of Animal Industry” of the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-157); any beverage subject to or complying with packaging or labeling requirements imposed under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
); any commodity subject to the provisions of the Federal Seed Act (7 U.S.C. 1551-1610).
(d) The term
package
means any container or wrapping in which any consumer commodity is enclosed for use in the delivery or display of that commodity to retail purchasers. For purposes of the regulations in this part the term
package
does not include shipping containers or wrappings used solely for the transportation of any consumer commodity in bulk or in quantity to manufacturers, packers, or processors, or to wholesale or retail distributors thereof unless used in retail display; shipping containers or outer wrappings used by retailers to ship or deliver any commodity to retail customers if such containers and wrappings bear no printed matter pertaining to any particular commodity; or containers subject to the provisions of the Act of August 3, 1912 (37 Stat. 250, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 231-233), the Act of March 4, 1915 (38 Stat. 1186, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 234-236); or transparent wrappers or containers which do not bear written, printed, or graphic matter obscuring any part of the label information required by this part.
(e) The term
label
means any written, printed, or graphic matter affixed to or appearing upon any consumer commodity or affixed to or appearing upon a package containing any consumer commodity; except that:
(1) An inspector's tag or other nonpromotional matter affixed to or appearing upon a consumer commodity shall not be deemed to be a label requiring the repetition of label information required by this part, and
(2) For the purposes of the regulations in this part the term
label
does not include written, printed, or graphic matter affixed to or appearing upon commodities, or affixed to or appearing upon containers or wrappers for commodities sold or distributed to industrial or institutional users.
(f) The term
person
includes any firm, corporation or associations.
(g) The term
commerce
means:
(1) Commerce between any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States, and any place outside thereof, and
(2) Commerce within the District of Columbia or within any territory or possession of the United States, not organized with a legislature, but shall not include exports to foreign countries.
(h) The term
principal display panel
means that part of a label that is most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under normal and customary conditions of display for retail sale. The principal display panel must be large enough to accommodate all the mandatory label information required to be placed thereon by this part without obscuring designs, vignettes, or crowding. This definition does not preclude utilization of alternate principal display panels on a label of a package, but alternate principal display panels must duplicate the information required to be placed on the principal display panel by this part. This definition does not preclude utilization of the container closure as the surface bearing the principal display panel if that label location is the one most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under normal and customary conditions of display for retail sale. The principal display panel of a label appearing on a cylindrical surface is that 40 percent of the circumference which is more likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under normal and customary conditions of display for retail sale. The principal display panel of a consumer commodity marketed in a decorative type container, or a container having a capacity of
1/4
ounce (7.4 mL) or less, may be considered to be a tear-away tag or tape affixed to the container and bearing the mandatory label information as required by this part, but the type size of the net quantity of contents statement shall be governed by the dimensions of the container itself.
The principal display panel of a consumer commodity marketed on a display card to which the immediate container of the commodity is affixed may be considered to be the display panel of the card, and the type size of the net quantity of contents statement is governed by the dimensions of the display card.
(i) The term
random package
means a package which is one of a lot, shipment, or delivery of packages of the same consumer commodity with varying weights, that is, packages with no fixed weight pattern.
(j) The term
SI metric
refers to units belonging to the International System of Units (abbreviated “SI” from the French,
Le Systeme International d'Unites
), as interpreted or modified for use in the United States by the Secretary of Commerce. They include the SI units (together with their multiples and submultiples) as well as other metric units (e.g., the liter) that are accepted for use with the SI units because of their practical importance.
(k) The term
customary inch/pound
refers to units belonging to the system of units used in the United States based on or derived from the ounce, pound, and ton for weight; the inch, foot, yard, and mile for length; the fluid ounce, pint, quart, and gallon for volume; and dry pint, dry quart, peck, and bushel for dry measure.
(l) The term
“e” mark
refers to the symbol “e” used in connection with the quantity declarations on labels of some consumer commodities marketed primarily in the European Community (EC). The “e” mark constitutes a representation by the packer or importer that the package to which it is applied has been filled in accordance with the average system of quantity specified by the EC. The average system is a method of declaring package fill in the EC and other countries of the world, including the United States.
§ 500.3
Prohibited acts, coverage, general labeling requirements, exemption procedures.
(a) No person engaged in the packaging or labeling of any consumer commodity for distribution in commerce, and no person (other than a common carrier for hire, or a freight forwarder for hire) engaged in the distribution in commerce of any packaged or labeled consumer commodity, shall distribute or cause to be distributed in commerce any such commodity if such commodity is contained in a package, or if there is affixed to that commodity a label, which does not conform to the provisions of the Act and of the regulations in this part.
(b) Persons engaged in business as wholesale or retail distributors of consumer commodities shall be subject to the Act and the regulations in this part to the extent that such persons are engaged in the packaging or labeling of consumer commodities, or prescribe or specify by any means the manner in which such consumer commodities are packaged or labeled.
(c) Each packaged or labeled consumer commodity, unless it has been exempted through proceedings under section 5(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1454(b)), shall, upon being prepared for distribution in commerce or for sale at retail, and before being distributed in commerce or offered for sale at retail, be labeled in accordance with the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part.
(d) Each packaged or labeled consumer commodity, unless it has been exempted through proceedings under section 5(b) of the Act, shall bear a label specifying the identity of the commodity; the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor; the net quantity of contents; and the net quantity per serving, use or application, where there is a label representation as to the number of servings, uses, or applications obtainable from the commodity. Many products exempted through proceedings under section 5(b) of the Act and section 500.3(e) of this chapter or excluded under part 503 of this chapter nonetheless fall within the purview of the weights-and-measures laws of the individual states.
(e) Proceedings for the promulgation of such exempting regulations may be commenced by the Commission upon
its own initiative or pursuant to petition filed with the Secretary by any interested person or group stating reasonable grounds for the proposed exemption, pursuant to § 1.31 of this chapter.
[59 FR 1872, Jan. 12, 1994, as amended at 80 FR 71689, Nov. 17, 2015; 86 FR 59854, Oct. 29, 2021]
§ 500.4
Statement of identity.
(a) The principal display panel of a consumer commodity shall bear a specification of the identity of the commodity.
(b) Such specification of identity shall comprise a principal feature of the principal display panel, shall be in such type size and so positioned as to render it easily read and understood by the consumer, and shall be in lines generally parallel to the base on which the package or commodity rests as it is designed to be displayed.
(c) Such specification of identity shall be in terms of:
(1) The name now or hereafter specified in or required by any applicable Federal law or regulation; or in the absence thereof,
(2) The common or usual name of the commodity; or in the absence thereof,
(3) The generic name or in other appropriately descriptive terms such as a specification which includes a statement of function.
(d) The specification of identity shall not be false, misleading, or deceptive in any respect. Ingredients or components which are not present in the commodity in a substantial or significantly effective amount may not be mentioned in the specification of identity; except that a component present in a formulation in substantial and effective amounts, but not present in the final product due to conversion or transformation into a different entity (which different entity is present in the final product), may be mentioned in the specification of identity.
§ 500.5
Name and place of business of manufacturer, packer or distributor.
(a) The label of a consumer commodity shall specify conspicuously the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor. Where the consumer commodity is not manufactured by the person whose name appears on the label, the name shall be qualified by a phrase that reveals the connection such person has with such commodity; such as “Manufactured for ______,” “Distributed by ______,” or any other wording that expresses the facts.
(b) The requirement for declaration of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor shall in the case of a corporation be deemed to be satisfied only by the actual corporate name, which may be preceded or followed by the name of the particular division of the corporation. In the case of an individual, partnership, or association, the name under which the business is conducted shall be used.
(c) The statement of the place of business shall include the street address, city, state, and zip code; however, the street address may be omitted if it is listed in a readily accessible, widely published, and publicly available resource, including but not limited to a printed directory, electronic database, or Web site.
(d) If a person manufactures, packs, or distributes a consumer commodity at a place other than his principal place of business, the label may state the principal place of business in lieu of the actual place where such consumer commodity was manufactured or packed or is to be distributed, unless such statement would be misleading.
(e) Standard abbreviations may be used in complying with the requirements of this section.
[59 FR 1872, Jan. 12, 1994, as amended at 80 FR 71689, Nov. 17, 2015]
§ 500.6
Net quantity of contents declaration, location.
(a) The label of a consumer commodity shall bear a declaration of the net quantity of contents separately and accurately stated on the principal display panel.
(b) The declaration of net quantity shall appear as a distinct item on the principal display panel, shall be separated (by at least a space equal to the height of the lettering used in the declaration) from other printed label information appearing above or below the declaration and, shall not include
any term qualifying a unit of weight or mass, measure, or count such as “jumbo quart,” “giant liter,” “full gallon,” “when packed,” “minimum,” or words of similar import. The declaration of net quantity shall be separated (by at least a space equal to twice the width of the letter “N” of the style of type used in the net quantity statement) from other printed label information appearing to the left or right of the declaration. However, the “e” mark shall not be considered to be a qualifying word or phrase and may be used as part of the statement of the net quantity of contents where warranted. When used, the “e” mark shall be at least 3 millimeters (approximately
1/8
in) in height. The declaration of net quantity of contents shall be placed on the principal display panel within the bottom 30 percent of the area of the label panel in lines generally parallel to the base on which the package or commodity rests as it is designed to be displayed:
Provided,
that:
(1) On consumer commodities having a principal display panel of 5 square inches (32.2 cm
2
) or less, the requirement for placement within the bottom 30 percent of the area of the label panel shall not apply when the declaration of net quantity of contents meets the other requirements of this part, and
(2) The requirements as to separation, location, and type size, specified in this part are waived with respect to variety and combination packages as defined in this part.
§ 500.7
Net quantity of contents, method of expression.
The net quantity of contents shall be expressed in terms of weight or mass, measure, numerical count, or a combination of numerical count and weight or mass, size, or measure so as to give accurate information regarding the net quantity of contents thereof, and thereby facilitate value comparisons by consumers. The net quantity of contents statement shall be in terms of fluid measure if the commodity is liquid, or in terms of weight or mass if the commodity is solid, semi-solid, or viscous, or a mixture of solid and liquid. If there is a firmly established general consumer usage and trade custom of declaring the contents of a liquid by weight or mass, or a solid, semi-solid, or viscous product by fluid measure, numerical count, and/or size, or (as in the case of lawn and plant care products) by cubic measure, it may be used, when such declaration provides sufficient information to facilitate value comparisons by consumers. The declaration may appear in more than one line of print or type.
§ 500.8
Units of weight or mass and measure.
(a) Statements of weight or mass shall be in terms of both avoirdupois pound and ounce and SI metric kilograms, grams, or milligrams. (Examples of avoirdupois/metric declarations: “Net Wt 15 oz (425 g)” or “Net Wt 1
1/2
lbs (680 g)” or “ 2.5 oz (70.8 g)”; examples of metric/avoirdupois declarations: “Net Mass 425 g (15 oz)” or “Net Mass 680 g (1
1/2
lbs)” or “100 g e (3.5 oz).”)
(b) Statements of fluid measure shall be in terms of both the U.S. gallon of 231 cubic inches and quart, pint, and fluid ounce subdivisions thereof and SI metric liters or milliliters and shall (except in the case of petroleum products, for which the declaration shall express the volume at 60 °Fahrenheit (15.6 °Celsius)) express the volume at 68 °Fahrenheit (20 °Celsius). (Examples of gallon/metric declarations: “Net 12 fl oz (354 mL)” or “Net Contents 1 gal (3.78 L)” or “8 fl oz (236 mL)”; examples of metric/gallon declarations: “Net 500 mL (1.05 pt)” or “Net Contents 1 L (1.05 qt).”)
(c) Statements of linear measure shall be in terms of both yards, feet, and inches and SI metric meters, centimeters, or millimeters.
(d) Statements of measure of area shall be in terms of both square yards, square feet, and square inches and SI metric square meters, square decimeters, square centimeters, or square millimeters.
(e) Statements of dry measure shall be in terms of both the U.S. bushel of 2,150.42 cubic inches and peck, dry quart, and dry pint subdivisions thereof and SI metric liters or milliliters.
(f) Statements of cubic measure shall be in terms of both cubic yard, cubic foot, and cubic inch and SI metric cubic meters, cubic decimeters, or cubic centimeters.
§ 500.9
Units of weight or mass, how expressed.
(a) The term
net weight
or
net mass
may be used in stating the net quantity of contents in terms of weight or mass. However, where the term “net weight” or “net mass” is not used, the quantity of contents shall always disclose the net quantity of contents. For example: “453 g (1 lb)” or “Net Wt 1 lb (453 g)” or “Net Mass 453 g (1 lb)”.
(b) With the exception of random packages, the statement of net quantity of contents in terms of avoirdupois weight shall be expressed as follows:
(1) If less than 1 pound, in terms of ounces. (Examples: “Net Weight 12 oz. (340 g)” or “Net Mass 340 g (12 oz)”.)
(2) If at least 1 pound but less than 4 pounds, in whole pounds, with any remainder in ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pound, except that it shall be optional to include an immediately adjacent additional expression of net quantity in terms of ounces.

# (Examples:
“Net Wt. 1 lb. 8 oz. (680 g)” or “Net Wt. 1.5 lb./24 oz. (680 g)” or “24 oz. (1
1/2
lb.) 680 g”.)
(3) If 4 pounds or more, in terms of whole pounds, with any remainder in terms of ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pound, except that it shall be optional to include an immediately adjacent additional expression of net quantity in terms of ounces. (Examples: “Net Weight 5 pounds 4 ounces (2.38 kg)” or “Net Mass 2.38 kg (5 lbs 4 oz)” or “Net Wt. 5
1/4
lbs. (2.38 kg)” or “Net Mass 2.38 kg (5
1/4
lbs.)” or “Net Wt. 5.25 lbs. (2.38 kg) or “Net Mass 2.38 kg (5.25 lbs)”.)
(c) If the net quantity of contents declaration appears on a random package it may, when the net weight exceeds 1 pound, be expressed in terms of pounds and decimal fractions of the pound carried out to not more than three decimal places. When the net weight does not exceed 1 pound, the declaration on the random package may be in terms of decimal fractions of the pound in lieu of ounces. (Examples: “Net Wt. 0.75 lb.” and “Net Weight 1.05 pounds.”) Such decimal declaration shall be exempt from the type size and placement requirements of section 4(a) of the Act if the accurate statement of net weight is presented prominently and conspicuously on the principal display panel of the package. The net quantity of contents declaration on a random package is not required to, but may include a statement in terms of the SI metric system carried out to not more than 3 decimal places.
(d) It is sufficient to distinguish avoirdupois ounce from fluid ounce through association of terms. (Examples: “Net Wt. 6 oz.” vs. “6 fl. oz.” or “Net Contents 6 fl. oz.”)
§ 500.10
Units of fluid measure, how expressed.
(a) Use of the terms “net” or “net contents” is optional.
(b) Declaration of net quantity of contents in terms of fluid measure shall be identified as such in each instance and the statement of U.S. gallon of 231 cubic inches and quart, pint, and fluid ounce subdivisions thereof shall be expressed as follows:
(1) If less than 1 pint, in terms of fluid ounces. (Example: “Net Contents 8 fl. oz. (236 mL)” or “Net Contents 236 mL (8 fl. oz.)”.)
(2) If at least 1 pint but less than 1 gallon, in terms of the largest whole unit (quarts, quarts and pints or pints, as appropriate), with any remainder in terms of fluid ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pint or quart, except that it shall be optional to include an immediately adjacent additional expression of net quantity in terms of fluid ounces. (Examples: “1 qt. (946 mL)” or “Net contents 1 qt. 1 pt. 8 oz./56 fl. oz. (1.65 L)”, but not in terms of quart and ounce such as “1 quart 24 ounces (1.65 L)”.)
(3) If 1 gallon or more, in terms of the largest whole unit (gallons followed by common or decimal fractions of a gallon or by the next smaller whole unit or units viz, quarts and pints) with any remainder in terms of fluid ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pint or quart, except that it shall be optional to include an immediately adjacent additional expression of net quantity in terms of fluid ounces.

# (Examples:
“Net contents 2
1/2
gal. (9.46 L)”, “Contents 2.5 gal. (9.46 L)”, or “Net contents 2 gallons 2 quarts (9.46 L)” but not as “2 gallons 4 pints (9.46 L)”.)
§ 500.11
Measurement of commodity length, how expressed.
Declaration of net quantity in terms of yards, feet, and inches shall be expressed as follows:
(a) If less than 1 foot, in terms of inches and fractions thereof.
(b) If 1 foot or more, in terms of the largest whole unit (a yard or foot) with any remainder in terms of inches or common or decimal fractions of the foot or yard, except that it shall be optional to express the length in the preceding manner followed by a statement of the length in terms of inches.
§ 500.12
Measurement of commodities by length and width, how expressed.
For bidimensional commodities (including roll-type commodities) measured in terms of commodity length and width, the declaration of net quantity of contents shall be expressed in the following manner:
(a) The declaration of net quantity for bidimensional commodities having a width of more than 4 inches (10.1 cm) shall:
(1) When the commodity has an area of less than 1 square foot (929 cm
2
) be expressed in terms of length and width in linear measure. The customary inch/pound statement is to be expressed in inches and fractions thereof.
(2) When the commodity has an area of 1 square foot (929 cm
2
) or more, but less than 4 square feet (37.1 dm
2
), be expressed in terms of area, followed by the length and width. The customary inch/pound statement of area is to be expressed in square inches with length and width expressed in the largest whole unit (yard or foot) with any remainder in inches or common or decimal fractions of the yard or foot except that a dimension of less than 2 feet (60.9 cm) may be stated in inches. Commodities consisting of usable individual units (e.g., paper napkins) while requiring a declaration of unit area need not declare the total area of all such individual units.
(3) When the commodity has an area of 4 square feet (37.1 dm
2
) or more, be expressed in terms of area, followed by the length and width. The customary inch/pound statement of area is to be expressed in square feet with the length and width expressed in the largest whole units (yards or feet) with any remainder in terms of inches or common or decimal fractions of the foot or yard except that a dimension of less than 2 feet (60.96 cm) may be stated in inches.
(4) For any commodity for which the quantity of contents is required by paragraph (a) (2) or (3) of this section to include a declaration of the linear dimensions, the quantity of contents, in addition to being declared in the manner prescribed by the appropriate provisions of this regulation, may also include, after the customary inch/pound statement of the linear dimensions of the largest unit of measurement, a parenthetical declaration of the linear dimensions of said commodity in terms of inches.

# (Example:
“25 sq. ft. (12 in. × 8.33 yd.) (12 in. × 300 in.) 42.32 m
2
(30.4 cm × 7.62 m)”.)
(b) For bidimensional commodities having a width of 4 inches (10.16 cm) or less, the declaration of net quantity shall be expressed in terms of width and length in linear measure. The customary inch/pound statement of width shall be expressed in terms of linear inches and fractions thereof, and length shall be expressed in the largest whole unit (yard or foot) with any remainder in terms of the common or decimal fractions of the yard or foot, except that it shall be optional to express the length in the largest whole unit followed by a statement of length in inches or to express the length in inches followed by a statement of length in the largest whole unit.

# (Example:
“2 inches × 10 yards (5.08 cm × 9.14 m)”, “2 inches × 10 yards (360 inches) 5.08 cm × 9.14 m”, or “2 inches × 360 inches (10 yards) 5.08 cm × 9.14 m”.)
§ 500.13
Measurement of commodities by area measure only, how expressed.
For commodities measured in terms of area measure only declaration of net quantity in terms of square yards, square feet, and square inches shall be expressed in the following manner:
(a) If less than 1 square foot (929 cm
2
), in terms of square inches and fractions thereof.
(b) If at least 1 square foot (929 cm
2
) but less than 4 square feet (37.1 dm
2
), in terms of square feet with any remainder in terms of square inches or common or decimal fractions of the square foot.
(c) If 4 square feet (37.1 dm
2
) or more, in terms of the largest appropriate whole unit (square yards, square yards and square feet, or square feet) with any remainder in terms of square inches or common or decimal fractions of the square foot or square yard.
§ 500.14
Statements of cubic measure and dry measure.
Statements of cubic measure and dry measure shall be expressed in terms most appropriate to the providing of accurate information as to the net quantity of contents, and to the facilitating of value comparisons by consumers. When the content declaration on a commodity sold in compressed form is stated in terms of cubic measure there may also be a statement indicating the amount of material from which the final product was compressed. Such statement shall not exceed the actual amount of material that can be recovered.
§ 500.15
Units of count, more than one ply.
If the commodity is in distinct usable units made up of one or more components or ply, the statement of net quantity of contents shall (in addition to complying with the requirements of linear and area measurement declaration for each unit as specified in § 500.12) include the number of ply and the total number of usable units.

# (Example:
“100 2-ply facial tissues, 8
1/2
inches × 10 inches” (21.5 × 25.4 cm).)
For the purposes of this section, roll type commodities (e.g. paper towels), irrespective of perforations, shall not be considered to be usable units, and shall be labeled in terms of total area measurement and the number of ply. Such area measurement, however, shall be supplemented by a count statement and the dimensions of a single unit.
§ 500.16
Measurement of container type commodities, how expressed.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this part 500 of the regulations pertaining to the expression of net quantity of contents by measurement, commodities designed and sold at retail to be used as containers for other materials or objects, such as bags, cups, boxes, and pans, shall be labeled in accordance with the following paragraphs:
(a) The declaration of net quantity for container commodities shall be expressed as follows:
(1) For bag type commodities, in terms of count followed by linear dimensions of the bag (whether packaged in a perforated roll or otherwise) Net quantity of contents in terms of feet and inches shall be expressed as follows:
(i) When the unit bag is characterized by two dimensions because of the absence of a gusset, the width and length will be expressed in inches, except that a dimension of 2 feet or more will be expressed in feet with any remainder in terms of inches or common or decimal fractions of the foot.

# (Example:
“25 bags, 17 in. × 20 in. (43.1 × 50.8 cm)” or “200 bags, 20 in. × 2 ft. 6 in. (50.8 × 76.2 cm)”, or “50 bags, 20 in. × 2
1/2
ft. (50.8 × 76.2 cm)”.)
(ii) When the unit bag is gussetted, the dimensions will be expressed as width, depth and length in terms of inches except that any dimensions of 2 feet or more will be expressed in feet with any remainder in terms of inches or the common or decimal fractions of the foot.

# (Examples:
“25 bags, 17 in. × 4 in. × 20 in. (43 × 10 × 50 cm)”, or “200 bags, 20 in. × 12 in. × 2
1/2
ft. (50.8 × 30.4 × 76.2 cm)”.)
(2) For other square, oblong, rectangular or similarly shaped containers, in terms of count followed by length, width, and depth except depth need not be listed when less than 2 inches (5.08 cm).

# (Example:
“2 cake pans, 8 in. × 8 in. (20.3 × 20.3 cm)”, or “roasting pan, 12 in. × 8 in. × 3 in. (30.4 × 20.3 × 7.62 cm)”.)
(3) For circular or other generally round shaped containers, except cups, and the like, in terms of count followed
by diameter and depth except depth need not be listed when less than 2 inches (5.08 cm).

# (Example:
“4 pie pans, 8 in. diameter (20.3 cm)” or “2 cake pans, 8 in. diameter × 4 in. (20.3 × 10.1 cm)”.)
(b) When the functional use of the container is related by label reference in standard terms of measure to the capability of holding a specific quantity of substance or class of substances such references shall be a part of the net quantity statement and shall specify capacity as follows:
(1) Liquid measure for containers which are intended to be used for liquids, semi-solids, viscous materials or mixtures of solids and liquids. The customary inch/pound statement of capacity shall be stated in terms of the largest whole U.S. gallon of 231 cubic inches, quart, pint, or ounce with any remainder in terms of the common or decimal fraction of that unit.

# (Example:
Freezer Boxes: “4 boxes, 1 qt. capacity, 6 in. × 6 in. × 4 in. (946 mL capacity, 15.2 × 15.2 × 10.1 cm)”.)
(2) Dry measure for containers which are intended to be used for solids. The customary inch/pound statement of capacity shall be stated in terms of the largest whole U.S. bushel of 2,150.42 cubic inches, peck, dry quart, or dry pint with any remainder in terms of the common or decimal fraction of that unit.

# (Example:
Leaf Bags: “8 bags, 6 bushel capacity, 4 feet × 5 feet (211 L capacity—1.21 m × 1.52 m)”.)
(3) Where containers are used as liners for other more permanent containers, in the same terms as are normally used to express the capacity of the more permanent container.

# (Example:
Garbage Can Liners: “10 liners, 2 ft. 6 in. × 3 ft. 1 in., fits up to 30 gallon cans (76.2 × 93.9 cm, fits up to 113 L cans”.)
(c) Notwithstanding the above requirements, the net quantity statement for containers such as cups will be listed in terms of count and liquid capacity per unit.

# (Example:
“24 cups, 6 fl. oz. capacity (177 mL)”.)
(d) For purposes of this section, the use of the terms “capacity,” “diameter,” and “fluid” is optional.
§ 500.17
Fractions.
(a) SI metric declarations of net quantity of contents of any consumer commodity may contain only decimal fractions. Other declarations of net quantity of contents may contain common or decimal fractions. A common fraction shall be in terms of halves, quarters, eighths, sixteenths, or thirty-seconds; except that:
(1) If there exists a firmly established general consumer usage and trade custom of employing different common fractions in the net quantity declaration of a particular commodity, they may be employed, and
(2) If linear measurements are required in terms of yards or feet, common fractions may be in terms of thirds. A common fraction shall be reduced to its lowest terms; a decimal fraction shall not be carried out to more than three places.
(b) If a statement includes small fractions, smaller variations in the actual size or weight of the commodity will be permitted as provided in § 500.25, than in cases where the larger fractions or whole numbers are used.
§ 500.18
SI metric prefixes.
The following chart indicates SI prefixes that may be used on a broad range of consumer commodity labels:
Prefix
Symbol
Multiplying factor
1
Kilo-
k
x 10
3
Deca-
da
× 10
Deci-
d
× 10
−1
Centi-
c
× 10
−2
Milli-
m
× 10
−3
Micro-
µ
× 10
−6
1
10
2
=100; 10
3
=1000; 10
−1
=0.1; 10
−2
=0.01.
Thus, 2 kg=2 × 1000 g=2000 g, and 3 cm=3 × 0.01 m=0.03 m.
§ 500.19
Conversion of SI metric quantities to inch/pound quantities and inch/pound quantities to SI metric quantities.
(a) For calculating the conversion of SI metric quantities to and from customary inch/pound quantities, the conversion chart published in the following handbook shall be employed: National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) Handbook 133, Checking the Net Contents of Packaged Goods, Appendix E—General Tables of Units of Measurements, 2015 Edition, adopted November 2014. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of NIST Handbook 133 at the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Web site,
http://www.nist.gov/pml/wmd/pubs/hb133.cfm
. You may inspect a copy at FTC Library, (202) 326-2395, Federal Trade Commission, Room H-630, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20580, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
.
(b) The SI metric quantity declaration should be shown in three digits except where the quantity is below 100 grams, milliliters, centimeters, square centimeters or cubic centimeters, where it can be shown in two figures. In either case, any final zero appearing to the right of a decimal point need not be shown.

# (Examples:
“1 lb (453 g)” not “1 lb (453.592 g)”; “Net Wt. 2 oz (56 g)” or “Net Wt 2 oz (56.6 g)” not “Net Wt. 2 oz (56.69 g)”.)
[59 FR 1872, Jan. 12, 1994, as amended at 80 FR 71689, Nov. 17, 2015]
§ 500.20
Conspicuousness.
The statement of net quantity of contents shall appear in conspicuous and easily legible boldface type or print in distinct contrast (by typography, layout, color, embossing, or molding) to other matter on the package; except that a statement of net quantity blown, embossed, or molded on a glass or plastic surface is permissible when all label information is so formed on the surface.
§ 500.21
Type size in relationship to the area of the principal display panel.
(a) The statement of net quantity of contents shall be in letters and numerals in a type size established in relationship to the area of the principal display panel of the package or commodity and shall be uniform for all packages or commodities of substantially the same size. For this purpose, “area of the principal display panel” means the area of the side or surface that bears the principal display panel, exclusive of tops, bottoms, flanges at tops and bottoms of cans, and shoulders and necks of bottles and jars. This area shall be:
(1) In the case of a rectangular package or commodity where one entire side properly can be considered to be a principal display panel side, the product of the height times the width of that side;
(2) In the case of a cylindrical or nearly cylindrical container or commodity, 40 percent of the product of the height of the container or commodity times the circumference; and
(3) In the case of any otherwise shaped container or commodity, 40 percent of the total surface of the container or commodity:
Provided,
however, that where such container or commodity presents an obvious “principal display panel” such as the top of a triangular or oval shaped container, the area shall consist of the entire top surface.
(b) With area of principal display panel defined as above, the type size in relationship to area of that panel shall comply with the following specifications:
(1) Not less than
1/16
inch (1.5 mm) in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of 5 square inches or (32.2 cm
2
) less.
(2) Not less than
1/8
inch (3.1 mm) in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 5 (32.2 cm
2
) but not more than 25 square inches (161 cm
2
).
(3) Not less than
3/16
inch (4.7 mm) in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 25 (161 cm
2
) but not more than 100 square inches (6.45 dm
2
).
(4) Not less than
1/4
inch (6.35 mm) in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 100 square inches (6.45 dm
2
), except not less than
1/2
(12.7 mm) inch in height if the area is more than 400 square inches (25.8 dm
2
).
(c) Where the statement of net quantity of contents is blown, embossed, or
molded on a glass or plastic surface rather than by printing, typing, or coloring, the lettering sizes specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall be increased by
1/16
of an inch (1.5 mm).
(d) Letter heights pertain to upper case or capital letters. When upper and lower case or all lower case letters are used, it is the lower case letter “o” or its equivalent that shall meet the minimum standards.
(e) The ratio of height to width of a letter shall not exceed a differential of 3 units to 1 unit (no more than 3 times as high as it is wide).
(f) When fractions are used, each component shall meet one-half the minimum height standards.
(g) The type size requirements specified in this section do not apply to the “e” mark. (See § 500.6(b).)
(h) When upper and lower case or all lowercase letters are used in SI metric symbols, it is the uppercase “L,” lowercase “d,” or their equivalent in the print or type used that shall meet the minimum height requirement. Other letters and exponents must be presented in the same type style and in proportion to the type size used. However, no letter shall be less than 1.6 mm (
1/16
inch) in height.
§ 500.22
Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations and none other may be employed in the required net quantity declaration:
Inch—in.
Feet or foot—ft.
Fluid—fl.
Liquid—liq.
Ounce—oz.
Gallon—gal.
Pint—pt.
Pound—lb.
Quart—qt.
Square—sq.
Weight—wt.
Yard—yd.
Avoirdupois—avdp.
Cubic—cu.

# Note:
Periods and plural forms shall be optional. Exponents are permitted.
[80 FR 71689, Nov. 17, 2015]
§ 500.23
Expression of net quantity of contents in SI Metric units.
(a) The selected multiple or submultiple prefixes for SI metric units shall result in numerical values between 1 and 1000, except that centimeters or millimeters may be used where a length declaration is less than 100 centimeters. For example, “1.96 kg” instead of “1960 g” and “750 mL” instead of “0.75 L”.
(b) The following symbols for SI metric units and none others may be employed in the required net quantity declaration:
centimeter—cm
cubic centimeter—cm
3
cubic decimeter—dm
3
meter—m
milligram—mg
liter—L or l
milliliter—mL or ml
square decimeter—dm
2
cubic meter—m
3
kilogram—kg
micrometer—µm
gram—g
millimeter—mm
square meter—m
2
square centimeter—cm
2

# Note:
Symbols, except for liter, are not capitalized. Periods should not be used after the symbol. Symbols are always written in the singular form.
§ 500.24
Supplemental statements.
Nothing contained in the regulations in this part shall prohibit supplemental statements, at locations other than the principal display panel, describing in non-deceptive terms the net quantity of contents:
Provided
that such supplemental statements of net quantity of contents shall not include any term qualifying a unit of weight or mass, measure, or count that tends to exaggerate the amount of commodity contained in the package. (Examples of prohibited language are: “Giant Quart,” “Jumbo Liter,” “Full Gallon,” “When Packed,” “Minimum,” or words of similar import.) Required combination declarations of net quantity of contents (for example, a combination of net weight or mass plus numerical count, numerical count plus dimensions of the commodity, etc.) are not regarded as supplemental net quantity statements and shall be located on the principal display panel. Dilution directions or other similar directions for use are not regarded as supplemental net quantity statements and may be located on the principal display panel.
Size characterizations in compliance with standards promulgated under section 5(c)(1) of the Act may appear on the principal display panel.
§ 500.25
Net quantity, average quantity, permitted variations.
(a) The statement of net quantity of contents shall accurately reveal the quantity of the commodity in the container exclusive of wrappers and other material packed therewith:
Provided,
that in the case of a commodity packed in a container designed to deliver the commodity under pressure, the statement shall declare the net quantity of the contents that will be expelled when the instructions for use are followed. The propellant is included in the net quantity statement.
(b) Variations from the stated weight or mass or measure shall be permitted when caused by ordinary and customary exposure, after the commodity is introduced into interstate commerce, to conditions which normally occur in good distribution practice and which unavoidably result in change of weight or mass or measure.
(c) Variations from the stated weight or mass, measure, or numerical count shall be permitted when caused by unavoidable deviations in weighing, measuring, or counting the contents of individual packages which occur in good packaging practice:
Provided,
that such variations shall not be permitted to such extent that the average of the quantities in the packages comprising a shipment or other delivery of the commodity is below the quantity stated, and no unreasonable shortage in any package will be permitted even though overages in other packages in the same shipment or delivery compensate for such shortage. Variations from stated quantity of contents shall not be unreasonably large.
§ 500.26
Representations of servings, uses, applications.
(a) The label of any packaged consumer commodity which bears a representation as to the number of servings, uses, or applications of such commodity contained in such package shall bear in immediate conjunction therewith, and in letters the same size as those used for such representations, a statement of the net quantity (in terms of weight or mass, measure, or numerical count) of each such serving, use, or application:
Provided,
that such statement may be expressed in terms that differ from terms used in the required statement of net contents (e.g., cupsful, tablespoonful, etc.), when such differing terms describe a constant quantity. Such statement may not be misleading in any particular.
(b) Representations as to the total amount of object or objects to which the commodity may be applied or upon which or in which the commodity may be used, will not be considered to be representations as to servings, uses, or applications, if such amount is expressed in terms of standard units of weight or mass, measure, size, or count.
(c) If there exists a voluntary product standard promulgated pursuant to the procedures found in 15 CFR part 10, by the Department of Commerce, quantitatively defining the meaning of the terms
serving, use,
or
application
with respect to a particular consumer commodity, then any label representation as to the number of servings, uses, or applications in such packaged consumer commodity shall correspond with such quantitative definition. (Copies of published standards will be available upon request from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20899.)
§ 500.27
Multiunit packages.
(a) A multiunit package is a package intended for retail sale, containing two or more individual packaged or labeled units of an identical commodity in the same quantity. The declaration of net quantity of contents of a multiunit package shall be expressed as follows:
(1) The number of individual packaged or labeled units;
(2) The quantity of each individual packaged or labeled unit; and
(3) The total quantity of the multiunit package.

# Examples:
Soap bars: “6 Bars, Net Wt. 3.4 ozs. (96.3 g) each, Total Net Wt. 1 lb. 4.4 oz. (578 g)” Facial Tissues: “10 Packs, each 25 two-ply tissues, 9.7 in. × 8.2 in. (24.6 × 20.8 cm), Total 250 Tissues.”
(b) The individual packages or labeled units of a multiunit package, when intended for individual sale separate from the multiunit package, shall be labeled in compliance with the regulations under this part 500 applicable to that package.
(c) A multiunit package containing unlabeled individual packages which are not intended for retail sale separate from the multiunit package may contain, in lieu of the requirements of Paragraph (a) of this section, a declaration of quantity of contents expressing the total quantity of the multiunit package without regard for inner packaging. For such multiunit packages it shall be optional to include a statement of the number of individual packages when such a statement is not otherwise required by the regulations.

# Examples:
Deodorant Cakes: “5 Cakes, Net Wt. 4 ozs. (113 g) each, Total Net Wt. 1.25 lb. (566 g)” or “5 Cakes, Total Net Wt. 1 lb. 4 ozs. (566 g)”;
Soap Packets: “10 Packets, Net Wt. 2 ozs. (56.6 g) each, total Net Wt 1.25 lb. (566 g)” or “Net Wt 1 lb. 4 ozs. (566 g)” or “10 Packets, Total Net Wt. 1 lb. 4 ozs. (566 g).”
§ 500.28
Variety packages.
(a) A variety package is a package intended for retail sale, containing two or more individual packages or units of similar but not identical commodities. Commodities which are generically the same but which differ in weight or mass, measure, volume, appearance or quality are considered similar but not identical. The declaration of net quantity for a variety package will be expressed as follows:
(1) The number of units for each identical commodity followed by the weight or mass, volume, or measure of that commodity: and
(2) The total quantity by weight or mass, volume, measure, and count, as appropriate, of the variety package. The statement of total quantity shall appear as the last item in the declaration of net quantity and shall not be of greater prominence than other terms used.

# Examples:
(i) “2 sponges 4
1/2
ins. × 4 ins. ×
3/4
in. (11.4 cm × 10.1 cm × 1.9 cm); 1 sponge 4
1/2
ins. × 8 ins. ×
3/4
in. (11.4 cm × 20.3 cm × 1.9 cm); 4 sponges 2
1/2
ins. × 4 ins. ×
1/2
in. (6.3 cm × 10.1 cm × 1.2 cm)
Total: 7 sponges”.
(ii) “2 soap bars Net Wt. 3.2 ozs. (90 g) each; 1 soap bar Net Wt. 5.0 ozs. (141 g).
Total: 3 bars Net Wt. 11.4 ozs. (323 g).”
(iii) Liquid Shoe Polish: “1 Brown 3 fl. ozs. (88 mL); 1 Black 3 fl. ozs. (88 mL); 1 White 5 fl. ozs. (147 mL).
Total: 11 fl. ozs. (325 mL).”
(iv) Picnic Ware: “34 spoons; 33 forks; 33 knives.
Total: 100 pieces.”
(b) When the individual units in a variety package are either packaged or labeled and are intended for retail sale as individual units, each unit shall be labeled in compliance with the applicable regulations under this part 500.
§ 500.29
Combination packages.
(a) A combination package is a package intended for retail sale, containing two or more individual packages or units of dissimilar commodities. The declaration of net quantity for a combination package will contain an expression of weight or mass, volume, measure or count or a combination, thereof, as appropriate for each individual package or unit:
Provided,
that the quantity statements for identical packages or units shall be combined.

# Examples
(1) Lighter fluid and flints: “2 cans—each 8 fl. ozs. (236 mL); 1 package—8 flints.”
(2) Sponges
Cleaner: “2 sponges each 4 in. × 6 in. × 1 in. (10.1 × 15.2 × 2.5 cm); 1 box cleaner—Net Wt. 6 ozs. (170 g)”
(3) Picnic Pack: “20 spoons, 10 knives and 10 forks, 10 2-ply napkins 10 ins. × 10 ins. (25.4 × 25.4 cm) 10 cups—6 fl. ozs. (177 mL)”.
(b) When the individual units in a combination package are either packaged or labeled and are intended for retail sale as individual units, each unit shall be in compliance with the applicable regulations under this part 500.
Pt. 501

# PART 501—EXEMPTIONS FROM REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS UNDER PART 500
Sec.
501.1
Camera film.
501.2
Christmas tree ornaments.
501.3
Replacement bags for vacuum cleaners.
501.4
Chamois.
501.5
Paper table covers, bedsheets, pillowcases.
501.6
Cellulose sponges, irregular dimensions.
501.7
Candles.
501.8
Solder.

# Authority:
Secs. 5, 6, 80 Stat. 1298, 1299, 1300; 15 U.S.C. 1454, 1455.
§ 501.1
Camera film.
Camera film packaged and labeled for retail sale is exempt from the net quantity statement requirements of part 500 of this chapter which specify how measurement of commodities should be expressed, provided:
(a) The net quantity of contents on packages of movie film and bulk still film is expressed in terms of the number of lineal feet of usable film contained therein.
(b) The net quantity of contents on packages of still film is expressed in terms of the number of exposures the contents will provide. The length and width measurements of the individual exposures, expressed in millimeters or inches, are authorized as an optional statement. (Example: “36 exposures, 36 × 24 mm. or 12 exposures, 2
1/4
× 2
1/4
inches”.)
[35 FR 75, Jan. 3, 1970]
§ 501.2
Christmas tree ornaments.
Christmas tree ornaments packaged and labeled for retail sale are exempt from the net quantity statement requirements of part 500 of this chapter which specify how the net quantity statement should be expressed, provided:
(a) The quantity of contents is expressed in terms of numerical count of the ornaments, and
(b) The ornaments are so packaged that the ornaments are clearly visible to the retail purchaser at the time of purchase.
[35 FR 9108, June 12, 1970]
§ 501.3
Replacement bags for vacuum cleaners.
Replacement bags for vacuum cleaners, packaged and labeled for retail sale are exempt from the requirements of § 500.15a of this chapter which specifies how measurement of container type commodities should be expressed, provided:
(a) The quantity of contents is expressed in terms of numerical count of the bags;
(b) A statement appears on the principal display panel of the package accurately identifying the make and model of the vacuum cleaner or cleaners in which the replacement bag is intended to effectively function;
(c) The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor of the replacement bags, in addition to the requirements of § 500.5 of this chapter, appears on the principal display panel of the package.
[35 FR 10510, June 27, 1970]
§ 501.4
Chamois.
Chamois packaged or labeled for retail sale is exempt from the requirements of § 500.13 of this chapter which specifies how measurement of commodities by area measure should be expressed:
Provided:
(a) The quantity of contents for full skins is expressed in terms of square feet with any remainder in terms of the common or decimal fraction of the square foot.
(b) The quantity of contents for cut skins of any configuration is expressed in terms of square inches and fractions thereof. Where the area of a cut skin is at least one square foot or more, the statement of square inches shall be followed in parentheses by a declaration in square feet with any remainder in terms of square inches or common or decimal fractions of the square foot.
[35 FR 19572, Dec. 24, 1970]
§ 501.5
Paper table covers, bedsheets, pillowcases.
Table covers, bedsheets, and pillowcases, fabricated from paper, are exempt from the requirements of § 500.12 of this chapter which specifies the expression of measurement of bidimensional commodities:
Provided,
That such commodities shall clearly present their actual length and width in terms of inches.
[35 FR 19077, Dec. 17, 1970]
§ 501.6
Cellulose sponges, irregular dimensions.
Variety packages of cellulose sponges of irregular dimensions, are exempted from the requirements of § 500.25 of this chapter, provided:
(a) Such sponges are packaged in transparent packages which afford visual inspection of the varied sizes, shapes, and irregular dimensions; and
(b) The quantity of contents declaration is expressed as a combination of count accompanied by the term
irregular dimensions.

# Example:
“10 Assorted Sponges—Irregular dimensions.”
[35 FR 18510, Dec. 5, 1970]
§ 501.7
Candles.
Tapered candles and irregularly shaped decorative candles which are either hand dipped or molded are exempt from the requirements of § 500.7 of this chapter which specifies that the net quantity of contents shall be expressed in terms of count and measure (e.g., length and diameter), to the extent that diameter of such candles need not be expressed. The requirements of § 500.7 of this chapter for these candles will be met by an expression of count and length or height in inches.
[36 FR 5690, Mar. 26, 1971]
§ 501.8
Solder.
Solder and brazing alloys containing precious metals when packaged and labeled for retail sale are exempt from the net quantity statement requirements of part 500 of this chapter which specify that all statements of weight shall be in terms of avoirdupois pound and ounce provided the net quantity declaration is stated in terms of the troy pound and ounce and the term
troy
is used in each declaration.
[37 FR 4429, Mar. 3, 1972]
Pt. 502

# PART 502—REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 5(C) OF THE FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING ACT

# Scope
Sec.
502.1
Scope of the regulations in this part.

# Definitions
502.2
Terms defined.

# General Requirements
502.3
Prohibited acts.

# Characterization of Package Size
502.4-502.99
[Reserved]

# Retail Sale Price Representations
502.100-502.102
[Reserved]

# Common Name and Ingredient Listing
502.200-502.299
[Reserved]

# Nonfunctional-Slack-Fill
502.300-502.399
[Reserved]

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1454, 1455.

# Source:
36 FR 12286, June 30, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Scope
§ 502.1
Scope of the regulations in this part.
The regulations in this part establish requirements for labeling of consumer commodities with respect to use of package size characterizations, retail sale price representations, and common name and ingredient listing. Additionally, the regulations in this part establish criteria to prevent nonfunctional-slack-fill of packages containing consumer commodities.

# Definitions
§ 502.2
Terms defined.
As used in this part, unless the context otherwise specifically requires:
(a) The terms
Act, regulation
or
regulations, consumer commodity, package, label, person, commerce, principal display panel,
and
random package
have the same meaning as those terms are defined under part 500 of this chapter.
(b) The term
packager
and
labeler
means any person engaged in the packaging or labeling of any consumer commodity for distribution in commerce or any person, other than a common carrier for hire, a contract carrier for hire, or a freight forwarder for hire, engaged in the distribution in commerce of any packaged or labeled consumer commodity; except persons engaged in business as wholesale or retail distributors of consumer commodities are not included unless such persons (1) are engaged in the packaging or labeling of such commodities, or (2) prescribe or specify by any means the manner in which such commodities are packaged or labeled.
(c) The terms
ordinary and customary
and
regular
when used with the term
price
means the price at which a consumer commodity has been openly and actively sold in the most recent and regular course of business in a particular market or trade area for a reasonably substantial period of time, i.e., a 30-day period. For consumer commodities which fluctuate in price, the ordinary and customary price shall be the lowest price at which any substantial sales were made during the aforesaid 30-day period.

# General Requirements
§ 502.3
Prohibited acts.
(a) No person engaged in the packaging or labeling of any consumer commodity for distribution in commerce, and no person (other than a common carrier for hire, a contract carrier for hire, or a freight forwarder for hire) engaged in the distribution in commerce of any packaged or labeled consumer commodity, shall distribute or cause to be distributed in commerce any such commodity if such commodity is contained in a package, or if there is affixed to that commodity a label, which does not conform to the provisions of the Act and of the regulations in this part.
(b) Persons engaged in business as wholesale or retail distributors of consumer commodities shall be subject to the Act and the regulations in this part to the extent that such persons are engaged in the packaging or labeling of consumer commodities, or prescribe or specify by any means the manner in which such consumer commodities are packaged or labeled.

# Characterization of Package Size
§§ 502.4-502.99
[Reserved]

# Retail Sale Price Representations
§§ 502.100-502.102
[Reserved]

# Common Name and Ingredient Listing
§§ 502.200-502.299
[Reserved]

# Nonfunctional-Slack-Fill
§§ 502.300-502.399
[Reserved]
Pt. 503

# PART 503—STATEMENTS OF GENERAL POLICY OR INTERPRETATION
Sec.
503.1
Interpretations.
503.2
Status of specific items under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act.
503.3
Name and place of business of manufacturer, packer, or distributor.
503.4
Net quantity of contents, numerical count.
503.5
Interpretation of the definition of “consumer commodity” as contained in section 10(a) of the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act.
503.6
Packagers' duty to withhold availability of packages imprinted with retail sale price representations.

# Authority:
Secs. 4, 6, 10, 80 Stat. 1297, 1999, 1300, 1301; 15 U.S.C. 1453, 1455, 1456.
§ 503.1
Interpretations.
The regulations in parts 500, 501, and 502 of this chapter are necessarily general in application and requests for formal rulings, statements of policy or interpretations shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Commission for consideration. Statements of policy or interpretations binding on the Commission will be published in the
Federal Register.
However, technical questions not involving policy consideration may be answered by the staff.
[36 FR 23058, Dec. 3, 1971]
§ 503.2
Status of specific items under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act.
Recent questions submitted to the Commission concerning whether certain articles, products or commodities are included under the definition of the term
consumer commodity,
as contained in section 10(a) of the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, have been considered in the light of the Commission's interpretation of that term as set forth in § 503.5 of this part as follows:
(a) The Commission is of the opinion that the following commodities or classes of commodities are not “consumer commodities” within the meaning of the Act.
Antifreeze.
Artificial flowers and parts.
Automotive accessories.
Automotive chemical products.
Automotive replacement parts.
Bicycle tires and tubes.
Books.
Brushes (bristle, nylon, etc.).
Brooms and mops.
Cameras.
Chinaware.
Christmas light sets.
Cigarette lighters.
Clothespins (wooden, plastic).
Compacts and mirrors.
Diaries and calendars.
Flower seeds.
Footwear.
Garden tools.
Gift ties and tapes.
Glasses and glassware.
Gloves (work type).
Greeting cards.
Hand tools.
Handicraft and sewing thread.
Hardware.
Household cooking utensils.
Inks.
Jewelry.
Luggage.
Magnetic recording tape.
Metal pails.
Motor oil (automobile).
Mouse and rat traps.
Musical instruments.
Paintings and wall plaques.
Photo albums.
Pictures.
Plastic table cloths, plastic placement and plastic shelf paper.
Rubber gloves (household).
Safety flares.
Safety pins.
School supplies.
Sewing accessories.
Silverware, stainless steelware and pewterware.
Small arms ammunition.
Smoking pipes.
Souvenirs.
Sporting goods.
Toys.
Typewriter ribbons.
Woodenware.
(b) The Commission is of the opinion that the following commodities or classes of commodities are “consumer commodities” within the meaning of the Act:
Adhesives and sealants.
Aluminum foil cooking utensils.
Aluminum wrap.
Camera supplies.
Candles.
Christmas decorations.
Cordage.
Disposable diapers.
Dry cell batteries.
Light bulbs.
Liquified petroleum gas for other than heating and cooking.
Lubricants for home use.
Photographic chemicals.
Pressure sensitive tapes, excluding gift tapes.
Solder.
Solvents and cleaning fluids for home use.
Sponges and chamois.
Waxes for home use.
[35 FR 6185, Apr. 16, 1970]
§ 503.3
Name and place of business of manufacturer, packer, or distributor.
To clarify the identity of a manufacturer, packer, or distributor for the purpose of § 500.5 of this chapter, the following represents the opinions of the Commission.
(a) A manufacturer of a bulk product who supplies the product to a contract packager and permits his bulk product to be packaged by the contract packager remains the manufacturer of the commodity, if the contract packager does not perform any act other than package filling and labeling.
(b)(1) A manufacturer of a bulk product who supplies the bulk to a contract packager but permits the packager to modify the bulk commodity by the addition of any substance which changes the identity of the bulk, ceases to be the manufacturer of the consumer commodity. At that point, if the manufacturer of the bulk elects to use his
name on the label of the consumer commodity, his name should be qualified to show “Distributed by ______________”, or “Manufactured for __________________”.
(2) The identity of a bulk substance received by a contract packager is changed if the packager, for example, adds a propellant as in the case of an aerosol, or adds a solvent as in the case of a paint, or blends two or more components, or changes the physical state as in the case of a liquid being changed to a gel or a semisolid being changed to a solid.
(c) A person or firm who supplies a formula and/or specifications to a contract packager but who takes no part in the actual production of the consumer commodity is not the manufacturer of the consumer commodity for the purpose of § 500.5(a) of this chapter. This is true whether the person or firm who supplies the formula or specifications, or both, also supplies the raw materials which are to be reacted, mixed, or otherwise modified to produce the consumer commodity.
(d) A corporation which wholly owns a manufacturing subsidiary which retains its separate corporate identity, is not the manufacturer of the consumer commodities manufactured by the wholly owned subsidiary, but must qualify its name if it elects to use its name on the label. Such qualification may be “Manufactured for ____________”, “Distributed by ______________”, or “Manufactured by ______________ (XYZ, Inc., City, State, Zip Code, a subsidiary of ABC, Inc.)”.
[34 FR 4956, Mar. 7, 1969, as amended at 34 FR 11199, July 3, 1969]
§ 503.4
Net quantity of contents, numerical count.
To clarify the requirement for declaration of net quantity in terms of count for the purpose of §§ 500.6 and 500.7 of this chapter, the following interpretation is rendered.
(a) When a consumer commodity is properly measured in terms of count only, or in terms of count and weight, volume, area, or dimension, the regulations are interpreted not to require the declaration of the net content as “one”, provided the statement of identity clearly expresses the fact that only one unit is contained in the package. Thus the unit synthetic sponge, the unit light bulb, and the unit dry cell battery do not require a net quantity statement of “one sponge,” “one light bulb,” or “one dry cell battery.” However, there still exists the necessity to provide a net quantity statement to specify weight, volume, area, or dimensions when such are required. For example, the synthetic sponge which is packaged, requires dimensions such as “5 in. × 3 in. × 1 in.” A multicomponent package or a package containing two or more units of the same commodity shall bear the net quantity statement in terms of count, and weight, volume, area, or dimensions as required. This interpretation does not preclude the option to enumerate a unit count on a single packaged commodity if so desired.
(b) [Reserved]
[34 FR 18087, Nov. 8, 1969]
§ 503.5
Interpretation of the definition of “consumer commodity” as contained in section 10(a) of the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act.
(a) Section 10(a) of the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act defines the term
consumer commodity
in four classifications. These are:
(1) Any food, drug, device, or cosmetic;
(2) And any other article, product, or commodity of any kind or class which is customarily produced or distributed for sale through retail sales agencies or instrumentalities.
(i) For consumption by individuals and which usually is consumed or expended in the course of such consumption.
(ii) For use by individuals for purposes of personal care and which usually is consumed or expended in the course of such use.
(iii) For use by individuals in the performance of services ordinarily rendered within the household and which usually is consumed or expended in the course of such use.
(b) Section 10(a) then expressly excludes
(1) Meats, poultry, and tobacco,
(2) Economic poisons and biologics for animals,
(3) Prescription drugs,
(4) Alcoholic beverages, and
(5) Agricultural and vegetable seeds.
(c) Pursuant to sections 5 and 7 of the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, the authority to promulgate regulations and to enforce the Act as to any food, drug, device, or cosmetic has been delegated to the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and as to any other “consumer commodity” to the Federal Trade Commission.
(d) As to these articles, products, or commodities subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, the legislative history of the Act demonstrates the intent of Congress, for the reasons stated therein, to place the following categories outside the scope of the definition of “consumer commodity”:
(1) Durable articles or commodities;
(2) Textiles or items of apparel;
(3) Any household appliance, equipment, or furnishing, including feather and down-filled products, synthetic-filled bed pillows, mattress pads and patchwork quilts, comforters and decorative curtains;
(4) Bottled gas for heating or cooking purposes;
(5) Paints and kindred products;
(6) Flowers, fertilizer, and fertilizer materials, plants or shrubs, garden and lawn supplies;
(7) Pet care supplies;
(8) Stationery and writing supplies, gift wraps, fountain pens, mechanical pencils, and kindred products.
(e) The articles, products, or commodities that are within the terms of section 10(a) of the Act and subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission are either expendable commodities for consumption by individuals, expendable commodities used for personal care, or expendable commodities used for household services. The primary terms in section 10(a) for defining these categories are:
(1) Consumption by individuals;
(2) Use by individuals;
(3) Personal care by individuals;
(4) Performances of services ordinarily rendered within the household by individuals;
(5) Consumed or expended.
(f) These terms are defined as follows:
(1)
Consumption by individuals.
This term as it is used in section 10(a) means the using up of an article, product, or commodity by an individual.
(2)
Use by individuals.
This term as it is used in section 10(a) means the employment or application of an article, product, or commodity by an individual.
(3)
Personal care by individuals.
This term as it is used in section 10(a) means that activity of an individual which is concerned with protecting, enhancing, and providing for the general cleanliness, health, or appearance of the individual.
(4)
Performance of services ordinarily rendered within the household by individuals.
These terms as they are used in section 10(a) mean: The term
household
refers to the interior and exterior of dwellings or residences occupied by individuals, including the surrounding premises. The term
performance of services ordinarily rendered within the household
means the doing of any activity by an individual within the above-described area which is normally done in connection with the maintenance and occupation of the above-described area as a habitation for individuals.
(5)
Consumed or expended.
These terms as they are used in section 10(a) mean (i) the immediate destruction or extinction of an article, product, or commodity, or of the part used; or (ii) the substantial diminution in the quantity, quality or utility of an article, product, or commodity which results from usage upon one or several occasions over a comparatively short period of time.
(g) The foregoing definition serves to amplify the definition of “consumer commodity” supplied by Congress in section 10(a) of the Act. As questions arise as to whether specific articles, products, or commodities are included in the above definition, the Commission will consider, among other things, the Congressional policy declared in section 2 of the Act, namely, that packages and labels should enable consumers to obtain accurate information as to the quantity of contents and should facilitate value comparisons. That is, in making its determinations of inclusions and exclusions under this
definition, the Commission will consider the requirements of both the Act and the pertinent regulations and in that connection will regard as one criterion the extent to which the disclosures required on “consumer commodities” are material to a consumer's selection of a particular article, product, or commodity. Interpretative rulings in such instances will be made public, and can be expected to further contribute to the development of clearer delineation of the scope of the term “consumer commodity”.
(h) With respect to articles, products, or commodities included within the definition of “consumer commodities”, the Commission will consider requests for exemptions in accordance with section 5(b) of the Act and § 500.3(e) of this chapter, and will make public its rulings on all such requests.
[34 FR 12945, Aug. 9, 1969]
§ 503.6
Packagers' duty to withhold availability of packages imprinted with retail sale price representations.
To clarify the requirements, under part 502 of this chapter, that a packager or labeler will not make packages marked with retail sale price representations available in any circumstance where he knows or should have reason to know that it will be used as an instrumentality for deception or for frustration of value comparison, the following represents the opinions of the Commission:
(a) Details of a plan to provide special packaging or special package sizes bearing retail sale price representations should contain the condition that customers will not be provided with such packages unless they resell the package at a price which fully passes on to the purchasers the represented savings or sale price advantage.
(b) A packager or labeler who, in good faith, takes reasonable and prudent measures to verify the performance of his customers will be deemed to have satisfied his obligation under the regulations. If the packager has taken such steps, the fact that a particular customer has failed to resell the packages at a price which fully passes on to the purchaser the represented savings or sale price advantage shall not alone place a seller in violation of the regulations.
(c) Any packager or labeler who determines that a customer does not intend to fulfill or has not fulfilled the conditions of an offer should immediately refrain from further sale under that offer to the customer. In situations where proper fulfillment of the conditions of an offer are in question, the Commission will resolve the issue after appropriate investigation of the facts submitted.
[36 FR 23058, Dec. 3, 1971]

# SUBCHAPTER F—FAIR CREDIT REPORTING ACT
PART 600 [RESERVED]
Pt. 602

# PART 602—FAIR AND ACCURATE CREDIT TRANSACTIONS ACT OF 2003

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1681s; sec. 3, Pub. L. 108-159; 117 Stat. 1953.
§ 602.1
Effective dates.
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c) The applicable provisions of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (FACT Act), Pub. L. 108-159, 117 Stat. 1952, shall be effective in accordance with the following schedule:
(1)
Provisions effective December 31, 2003.
(i) Sections 151(a)(2), 212(e), 214(c), 311(b), and 711, concerning the relation to state laws; and
(ii) Each of the provisions of the FACT Act that authorizes an agency to issue a regulation or to take other action to implement the applicable provision of the FACT Act or the applicable provision of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the FACT Act, but only with respect to that agency's authority to propose and adopt the implementing regulation or to take such other action.
(2)
Provisions effective March 31, 2004.
(i) Section 111, concerning the definitions;
(ii) Section 156, concerning the statute of limitations
(iii) Sections 312(d), (e), and (f), concerning the furnisher liability exception, liability and enforcement, and rule of construction, respectively;
(iv) Section 313(a), concerning action regarding complaints;
(v) Section 611, concerning communications for certain employee investigations; and
(vi) Section 811, concerning clerical amendments.
(3)
Provisions effective December 1, 2004.
(i) Section 112, concerning fraud alerts and active duty alerts;
(ii) Section 114, concerning procedures for the identification of possible instances of identity theft;
(iii) Section 115, concerning truncation of the social security number in a consumer report;
(iv) Section 151(a)(1), concerning the summary of rights of identity theft victims;
(v) Section 152, concerning blocking of information resulting from identity theft;
(vi) Section 153, concerning the coordination of identity theft complaint investigations;
(vii) Section 154, concerning the prevention of repollution of consumer reports;
(viii) Section 155, concerning notice by debt collectors with respect to fraudulent information;
(ix) Section 211(c), concerning a summary of rights of consumers;
(x) Section 212(a)-(d), concerning the disclosure of credit scores;
(xi) Section 213(c), concerning duration of elections;
(xii) Section 217(a), concerning the duty to provide notice to a consumer;
(xiii) Section 311(a), concerning the risk-based pricing notice;
(xiv) Section 312(a)-(c), concerning procedures to enhance the accuracy and integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies;
(xv) Section 314, concerning improved disclosure of the results of reinvestigation;
(xvi) Section 315, concerning reconciling addresses;
(xvii) Section 316, concerning notice of dispute through reseller; and
(xviii) Section 317, concerning the duty to conduct a reasonable reinvestigation.
[69 FR 29063, May 20, 2004]
Pt. 603

# PART 603—DEFINITIONS

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 111; 15 U.S.C. 1681a.

# Source:
77 FR 22203, Apr. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 603.1
Cross-reference.
The rules formerly at 16 CFR part 603 have been republished by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 12 CFR
1022.3, “Fair Credit Reporting (Regulation V).”
Pt. 604

# PART 604—FAIR CREDIT REPORTING ACT RULES

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, secs. 3, 111, 112, 114, 151, 153, 211, 212, 213, 214, 216, 311, 315; 15 U.S.C. 1681s.

# Source:
69 FR 29063, May 20, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 604.1
Severability.
All parts and subparts of this subchapter are separate and severable from one another. If any part or subpart is stayed or determined to be invalid, the Commission intends that the remaining parts and subparts shall continue in effect.
Pt. 609

# PART 609—FREE ELECTRONIC CREDIT MONITORING FOR ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY
Sec.
609.1
Scope of regulations in this part.
609.2
Definitions.
609.3
Requirement to provide free electronic credit monitoring service.
609.4
Timing of electronic credit monitoring notices.
609.5
Additional information to be included in electronic credit monitoring notices.
609.6
Severability.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(k).

# Source:
84 FR 31191, July 1, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 609.1
Scope of regulations in this part.
This part implements Section 605A(k)(2) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(k)(2), which requires consumer reporting agencies that compile and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis to provide a free electronic credit monitoring service to active duty military consumers that, at a minimum, notifies them of any material additions or modifications to their files.
§ 609.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Active duty military consumer
means:
(1) A consumer in military service as defined in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(q)(1); or
(2) A member of the National Guard as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(c).
(b)
Appropriate proof of identity
has the meaning set forth in 12 CFR 1022.123.
(c)
Consumer
has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(c).
(d)
Consumer report
has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d).
(e)
Contact information
means information about a consumer, such as a consumer's first and last name and email address, that is reasonably necessary to collect in order to provide the electronic credit monitoring service.
(f)
Credit
has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(g)
Electronic credit monitoring service
means a service through which nationwide consumer reporting agencies provide, at a minimum, electronic notification of material additions or modifications to a consumer's file and following a notification, access to all information in the consumer's file at the nationwide consumer reporting agency at the time of the notification, in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 1681g(a).
(h)
Electronic notification
means:
(1) A notice provided to the consumer via:
(i) Mobile application;
(ii) Email; or
(iii) Text message;
(2) If the notice in paragraph (h)(1) of this section does not inform the consumer of the specific material addition or modification that has been made, such notice must link to a website that provides that information.
(i)
File
has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(g).
(j)
Firm offer of credit
has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(
l
).
(k)
Free
means provided at no cost to the consumer.
(l)
Material additions or modifications
means significant changes to a consumer's file, including:
(1) New accounts opened in the consumer's name, including new collection accounts;
(2) Inquiries or requests for a consumer report;
(i) However, an inquiry made for a prescreened list obtained for the purpose of making a firm offer of credit or
insurance as described in 15 U.S.C. 1681b(c)(1)(B) or for the purpose of reviewing or collecting an account of the consumer shall not be considered a material addition or modification.
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Material changes to a consumer's address;
(4) Changes to credit account limits of $100 or greater; and
(5) Negative information.
(m)
Nationwide consumer reporting agency
has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p).
(n)
Negative information
means accounts furnished to the nationwide consumer reporting agencies as more than 30 days delinquent, accounts furnished to the nationwide consumer reporting agencies as being included in bankruptcy petition filings, and new public records, including, but not limited to, bankruptcy filings, civil court judgments, foreclosures, liens, and convictions.
§ 609.3
Requirement to provide free electronic credit monitoring service.
(a)
General requirements.
Nationwide consumer reporting agencies must provide a free electronic credit monitoring service to active duty military consumers.
(b)
Determining whether a consumer must receive electronic credit monitoring service.
Nationwide consumer reporting agencies may condition provision of the service required under paragraph (a) of this section upon the consumer providing:
(1) Appropriate proof of identity;
(2) Contact information; and
(3) Appropriate proof that the consumer is an active duty military consumer.
(c)
Appropriate proof of active duty military consumer status.
(1) A consumer's status as an active duty military consumer can be verified through:
(i) A method or service approved by the Department of Defense; or
(ii) A certification of active duty military consumer status approved by the nationwide consumer reporting agency.
(2) Provided, however, that the procedures a nationwide consumer reporting agency uses to determine appropriate proof of active duty military consumer status must include methods that allow all eligible consumers to enroll. A nationwide consumer reporting agency shall be deemed in compliance with paragraph (c) of this section if it provides free electronic credit monitoring services to:
(i) Consumers who self-certify active duty status, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d);
(ii) Consumers who self-certify that they are a reservist performing duty under a call or order to active duty under a provision of law referred to in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13); and
(iii) Consumers who self-certify that they are a member of the National Guard, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(c).
(3) A nationwide consumer reporting agency's verification of active duty military consumer status is valid for two years. After the expiration of the two-year period, the nationwide consumer reporting agency may require the consumer to provide proof that the consumer continues to be an active duty military consumer in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(d)
Information use and disclosure.
Any information collected from consumers as a result of a request to obtain the service required under paragraph (a) of this section, may be used or disclosed by the nationwide consumer reporting agency only:
(1) To provide the free electronic credit monitoring service requested by the consumer;
(2) To process a transaction requested by the consumer at the same time as a request for the free electronic credit monitoring service;
(3) To comply with applicable legal requirements; or
(4) To update information already maintained by the nationwide consumer reporting agency for the purpose of providing consumer reports, provided that the nationwide consumer reporting agency uses and discloses the updated information subject to the same restrictions that would apply, under any applicable provision of law or regulation, to the information updated or replaced.
(e)
Communications surrounding enrollment in electronic credit monitoring service.
(1) Once a consumer is in the process of accessing the ability to enroll in the service required under paragraph (a) of this section and only during the enrollment process, any advertising or marketing for products or services, or any communications or instructions that advertise or market any products and services, must be delayed until after the consumer has enrolled in that service.
(2) Any communications, instructions, or permitted advertising or marketing shall not interfere with, detract from, contradict, or otherwise undermine the purpose of providing a free electronic credit monitoring service to active duty military consumers that notifies them of any material additions or modifications to their files.
(3) Examples of interfering, detracting, inconsistent, and/or undermining communications include:
(i) Materials that represent, expressly or by implication, that an active duty military consumer must purchase a paid product or service in order to receive the service required under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(ii) Materials that falsely represent, expressly or by implication, that a product or service offered ancillary to receipt of the free electronic credit monitoring service, such as identity theft insurance, is free, or that fail to clearly and prominently disclose that consumers must cancel a service, advertised as free for an initial period of time, to avoid being charged, if such is the case.
(f)
Other prohibited practices.
A nationwide consumer reporting agency shall not ask or require an active duty military consumer to agree to terms or conditions in connection with obtaining a free electronic credit monitoring service, other than those terms or conditions required to comply with applicable legal requirements.
§ 609.4
Timing of electronic credit monitoring notices.
The notice required in § 609.3(a) must be provided within 48 hours of any material additions or modifications to a consumer's file.
§ 609.5
Additional information to be included in electronic credit monitoring notices.
(a) The notice required in § 609.3(a), or the first page within the electronic credit monitoring service to which the notice may direct the consumer, shall include a hyperlink to a summary of the consumer's rights under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as prescribed by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection under 15 U.S.C. 1681g(c).
(b) The nationwide consumer reporting agency shall provide to a consumer, with each file disclosure provided in § 609.3(a), the summary of the consumer's rights under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as prescribed by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection under 15 U.S.C. 1681g(c).
§ 609.6
Severability.
The provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed, or determined to be invalid, it is the Commission's intention that the remaining provisions shall continue in effect.
Pt. 610

# PART 610—FREE ANNUAL FILE DISCLOSURES

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1681a, g, and h; sec. 211(a) and (d), Pub. L. 108-159, 117 Stat. 1968 and 1972 (15 U.S.C. 1681j); Pub. L. 111-24.

# Source:
77 FR 22203, Apr. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 610.1
Cross-reference.
The rules formerly at 16 CFR part 610 have been republished by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 12 CFR 1022.130, “Fair Credit Reporting (Regulation V).”
Pt. 611

# PART 611—PROHIBITION AGAINST CIRCUMVENTING TREATMENT AS A NATIONWIDE CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCY

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 211(b); 15 U.S.C. 1681x.

# Source:
77 FR 22203, Apr. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 611.1
Cross-reference.
The rules formerly at 16 CFR part 611 have been republished by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 12 CFR 1022.140, “Fair Credit Reporting (Regulation V).”
Pt. 613

# PART 613—DURATION OF ACTIVE DUTY ALERTS

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 112(a); 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1.

# Source:
77 FR 22203, Apr. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 613.1
Cross-reference.
The rules formerly at 16 CFR part 613 have been republished by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 12 CFR 1022.121, “Fair Credit Reporting (Regulation V).”
Pt. 614

# PART 614—APPROPRIATE PROOF OF IDENTITY

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 112(b).

# Source:
77 FR 22204, Apr. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 614.1
Cross-reference.
The rules formerly at 16 CFR part 614 have been republished by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 12 CFR 1022.123, “Fair Credit Reporting (Regulation V).”
Pt. 640

# PART 640—DUTIES OF CREDITORS REGARDING RISK-BASED PRICING
Sec.
640.1
Scope.
640.2
Definitions.
640.3
General requirements for risk-based pricing notices.
640.4
Content, form, and timing of risk-based pricing notices.
640.5
Exceptions.
640.6
Rules of Construction.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 311; 15 U.S.C. 1681m(h); 12 U.S.C. 5519(d).

# Source:
86 FR 51797, Oct. 18, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 640.1
Scope.
(a)
Coverage
—(1)
In general.
This part applies to any motor vehicle dealer as defined in § 640.2 of this part that both—
(i) Uses a consumer report in connection with an application for, or a grant, extension, or other provision of, credit to a consumer that is primarily for personal, family, or household purposes; and
(ii) Based in whole or in part on the consumer report, grants, extends, or otherwise provides credit to the consumer on material terms that are materially less favorable than the most favorable material terms available to a substantial proportion of consumers from or through that motor vehicle dealer.
(2)
Business credit excluded.
This part does not apply to an application for, or a grant, extension, or other provision of, credit to a consumer or to any other applicant primarily for a business purpose.
(b)
Enforcement.
The provisions of this part will be enforced in accordance with the enforcement authority set forth in sections 621(a) and (b) of the FCRA.
§ 640.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Adverse action
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(k)(1)(A).
(b)
Annual percentage rate
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.14(b) with respect to an open-end credit plan and as in 12 CFR 1026.22 with respect to closed-end credit.
(c)
Closed-end credit
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(10).
(d)
Consumer
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(c).
(e)
Consummation
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(13).
(f)
Consumer report
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d).
(g)
Consumer reporting agency
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(f).
(h)
Credit
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(i)
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(j)
Credit card
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(2).
(k)
Credit card issuer
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(1)(A).
(l)
Credit score
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681g(f)(2)(A).
(m)
Firm offer of credit
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(l).
(n)
Material terms
means—
(1)(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (n)(1)(ii) and (n)(3) of this section, in the case of credit extended under an open-end credit plan, the annual percentage rate required to be disclosed under 12 CFR 226.6(a)(1)(ii) or 12 CFR 226.6(b)(2)(i), excluding any temporary initial rate lower than the rate that will apply after the temporary rate expires, any penalty rate that will apply upon the occurrence of one or more specific events, such as a late payment or an extension of credit that exceeds the credit limit, and any fixed annual percentage rate option for a home equity line of credit;
(ii) In the case of a credit card (other than a credit card used to access a home equity line of credit or a charge card), the annual percentage rate required to be disclosed under 12 CFR 226.6(b)(2)(i) that applies to purchases (“purchase annual percentage rate”) and no other annual percentage rate, or in the case of a credit card that has no purchase annual percentage rate, the annual percentage rate that varies based on information in a consumer report and that has the most significant financial impact on consumers;
(2) In the case of closed-end credit, the annual percentage rate required to be disclosed under 12 CFR 226.17(c) and 226.18(e); and
(3) In the case of credit for which there is no annual percentage rate, the financial term that varies based on information in a consumer report and that has the most significant financial impact on consumers, such as a deposit required in connection with an extension of credit.
(o)
Materially less favorable
means, when applied to material terms, that the terms granted, extended, or otherwise provided to a consumer differ from the terms granted, extended, or otherwise provided to another consumer from or through the same motor vehicle dealer such that the cost of credit to the first consumer would be significantly greater than the cost of credit granted, extended, or otherwise provided to the other consumer. For purposes of this definition, factors relevant to determining the significance of a difference in cost include the type of credit product, the term of the credit extension, if any, and the extent of the difference between the material terms granted, extended, or otherwise provided to the two consumers.
(p)
Motor vehicle dealer
means any person excluded from Consumer Financial Protection Bureau jurisdiction as described in 12 U.S.C. 5519.
(q)
Open-end credit plan
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(j), as interpreted by the Board in Regulation Z and the Official Staff Commentary to Regulation Z.
(r)
Person
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(b).
§ 640.3
General requirements for risk-based pricing notices.
(a)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, a motor vehicle dealer must provide to a consumer a notice (“risk-based pricing notice”) in the form and manner required by this part if the motor vehicle dealer both—
(1) Uses a consumer report in connection with an application for, or a grant, extension, or other provision of, credit to that consumer primarily for personal, family, or household purposes; and
(2) Based in whole or in part on the consumer report, grants, extends, or otherwise provides credit to that consumer on material terms that are materially less favorable than the most favorable material terms available to a substantial proportion of consumers from or through that motor vehicle dealer.
(b)
Determining which consumers must receive a notice.
A motor vehicle dealer may determine whether paragraph (a) of this section applies by directly comparing the material terms offered to each consumer and the material terms offered to other consumers for a specific type of credit product. For purposes of this section, a “specific type of credit product” means one or more credit products with similar features designed for similar purposes. Examples of a specific type of credit product include new automobile loans and used automobile loans. As an alternative to making this direct comparison, a
motor vehicle dealer may make the determination by using one of the following methods:
(1)
Credit score proxy method
—(i)
In general.
A motor vehicle dealer that sets the material terms of credit granted, extended, or otherwise provided to a consumer, based in whole or in part on a credit score, may comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by—
(A) Determining the credit score (hereafter referred to as the “cutoff score”) that represents the point at which approximately 40 percent of the consumers to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit have higher credit scores and approximately 60 percent of the consumers to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit have lower credit scores; and
(B) Providing a risk-based pricing notice to each consumer to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit whose credit score is lower than the cutoff score.
(ii)
Alternative to the 40/60 cutoff score determination.
In the case of credit that has been granted, extended, or provided on the most favorable material terms to more than 40 percent of consumers, a motor vehicle dealer may, at its option, set its cutoff score at a point at which the approximate percentage of consumers who historically have been granted, extended, or provided credit on material terms other than the most favorable terms would receive risk-based pricing notices under this section.
(iii)
Determining the cutoff score
—(A)
Sampling approach.
A motor vehicle dealer that currently uses risk-based pricing with respect to the credit products it offers must calculate the cutoff score by considering the credit scores of all or a representative sample of the consumers to whom it has granted, extended, or provided credit for a specific type of credit product.
(B)
Secondary source approach in limited circumstances.
A motor vehicle dealer that is a new entrant into the credit business, introduces new credit products, or starts to use risk-based pricing with respect to the credit products it currently offers may initially determine the cutoff score based on information derived from appropriate market research or relevant third-party sources for a specific type of credit product, such as research or data from companies that develop credit scores. A motor vehicle dealer that acquires a credit portfolio as a result of a merger or acquisition may determine the cutoff score based on information from the party which it acquired, with which it merged, or from which it acquired the portfolio.
(C)
Recalculation of cutoff scores.
A motor vehicle dealer using the credit score proxy method must recalculate its cutoff score(s) no less than every two years in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section. A motor vehicle dealer using the credit score proxy method using market research, third-party data, or information from a party which it acquired, with which it merged, or from which it acquired the portfolio as permitted by paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section generally must calculate a cutoff score(s) based on the scores of its own consumers in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section within one year after it begins using a cutoff score derived from market research, third-party data, or information from a party which it acquired, with which it merged, or from which it acquired the portfolio. If such a motor vehicle dealer does not grant, extend, or provide credit to new consumers during that one-year period such that it lacks sufficient data with which to recalculate a cutoff score based on the credit scores of its own consumers, the motor vehicle dealer may continue to use a cutoff score derived from market research, third-party data, or information from a party which it acquired, with which it merged, or from which it acquired the portfolio as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) until it obtains sufficient data on which to base the recalculation. However, the motor vehicle dealer must recalculate its cutoff score(s) in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section within two years, if it has granted, extended, or provided credit to some new consumers during that two-year period.
(D)
Use of two or more credit scores.
A motor vehicle dealer that generally
uses two or more credit scores in setting the material terms of credit granted, extended, or provided to a consumer must determine the cutoff score using the same method the motor vehicle dealer uses to evaluate multiple scores when making credit decisions. These evaluation methods may include, but are not limited to, selecting the low, median, high, most recent, or average credit score of each consumer to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit. If a motor vehicle dealer that uses two or more credit scores does not consistently use the same method for evaluating multiple credit scores (
e.g.,
if the motor vehicle dealer sometimes chooses the median score and other times calculates the average score), the motor vehicle dealer must determine the cutoff score using a reasonable means. In such cases, use of any one of the methods that the motor vehicle dealer regularly uses or the average credit score of each consumer to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit is deemed to be a reasonable means of calculating the cutoff score.
(iv)
Credit score not available.
For purposes of this section, a motor vehicle dealer using the credit score proxy method who grants, extends, or provides credit to a consumer for whom a credit score is not available must assume that the consumer receives credit on material terms that are materially less favorable than the most favorable credit terms offered to a substantial proportion of consumers from or through that motor vehicle dealer and must provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer.
(v)
Examples.
(A) A motor vehicle dealer engages in risk-based pricing and the annual percentage rates it offers to consumers are based in whole or in part on a credit score. The motor vehicle dealer takes a representative sample of the credit scores of consumers to whom it extended loans within the preceding three months. The motor vehicle dealer determines that approximately 40 percent of the sampled consumers have a credit score at or above 720 (on a scale of 350 to 850) and approximately 60 percent of the sampled consumers have a credit score below 720. Thus, the motor vehicle dealer selects 720 as its cutoff score. A consumer applies to the motor vehicle dealer for a loan. The motor vehicle dealer obtains a credit score for the consumer. The consumer's credit score is 700. Since the consumer's 700 credit score falls below the 720 cutoff score, the motor vehicle dealer must provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer.
(B) A motor vehicle dealer engages in risk-based pricing, and the annual percentage rates it offers to consumers are based in whole or in part on a credit score. The motor vehicle dealer takes a representative sample of the consumers to whom it extended loans over the preceding six months. The motor vehicle dealer determines that approximately 80 percent of the sampled consumers received credit at its lowest annual percentage rate, and 20 percent received credit at a higher annual percentage rate. Approximately 80 percent of the sampled consumers have a credit score at or above 750 (on a scale of 350 to 850), and 20 percent have a credit score below 750. Thus, the motor vehicle dealer selects 750 as its cutoff score. A consumer applies to the motor vehicle dealer for an automobile loan. The motor vehicle dealer obtains a credit score for the consumer. The consumer's credit score is 740. Since the consumer's 740 credit score falls below the 750 cutoff score, the motor vehicle dealer must provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer.
(C) A motor vehicle dealer engages in risk-based pricing, obtains credit scores from one of the nationwide consumer reporting agencies, and uses the credit score proxy method to determine which consumers must receive a risk-based pricing notice. A consumer applies to the motor vehicle dealer for credit to finance the purchase of an automobile. A credit score about that consumer is not available from the consumer reporting agency from which the lender obtains credit scores. The motor vehicle dealer nevertheless grants, extends, or provides credit to the consumer. The motor vehicle dealer must provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer.
(2)
Tiered pricing method
—(i)
In general.
A motor vehicle dealer that sets the material terms of credit granted, extended, or provided to a consumer by
placing the consumer within one of a discrete number of pricing tiers for a specific type of credit product, based in whole or in part on a consumer report, may comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by providing a risk-based pricing notice to each consumer who is not placed within the top pricing tier or tiers, as described below.
(ii)
Four or fewer pricing tiers.
If a motor vehicle dealer using the tiered pricing method has four or fewer pricing tiers, the motor vehicle dealer complies with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by providing a risk-based pricing notice to each consumer to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit who does not qualify for the top tier (that is, the lowest-priced tier). For example, a motor vehicle dealer that uses a tiered pricing structure with annual percentage rates of 8, 10, 12, and 14 percent would provide the risk-based pricing notice to each consumer to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit at annual percentage rates of 10, 12, and 14 percent.
(iii)
Five or more pricing tiers.
If a motor vehicle dealer using the tiered pricing method has five or more pricing tiers, the motor vehicle dealer complies with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by providing a risk-based pricing notice to each consumer to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit who does not qualify for the top two tiers (that is, the two lowest-priced tiers) and any other tier that, together with the top tiers, comprise no less than the top 30 percent but no more than the top 40 percent of the total number of tiers. Each consumer placed within the remaining tiers must receive a risk-based pricing notice. For example, if a motor vehicle dealer has nine pricing tiers, the top three tiers (that is, the three lowest-priced tiers) comprise no less than the top 30 percent but no more than the top 40 percent of the tiers. Therefore, a motor vehicle dealer using this method would provide a risk-based pricing notice to each consumer to whom it grants, extends, or provides credit who is placed within the bottom six tiers.
(c)
Application to credit card issuers
—(1)
In general.
A credit card issuer subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may use one of the methods set forth in paragraph (b) of this section to identify consumers to whom it must provide a risk-based pricing notice. Alternatively, a credit card issuer may satisfy its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section by providing a risk-based pricing notice to a consumer when—
(i) A consumer applies for a credit card either in connection with an application program, such as a direct-mail offer or a take-one application, or in response to a solicitation under 12 CFR 226.5a, and more than a single possible purchase annual percentage rate may apply under the program or solicitation; and
(ii) Based in whole or in part on a consumer report, the credit card issuer provides a credit card to the consumer with an annual percentage rate referenced in § 640.2(n)(1)(ii) that is greater than the lowest annual percentage rate referenced in § 640.2(n)(1)(ii) available in connection with the application or solicitation.
(2)
No requirement to compare different offers.
A credit card issuer is not subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to a consumer if—
(i) The consumer applies for a credit card for which the card issuer provides a single annual percentage rate referenced in § 640.2(n)(1)(ii), excluding a temporary initial rate lower than the rate that will apply after the temporary rate expires and a penalty rate that will apply upon the occurrence of one or more specific events, such as a late payment or an extension of credit that exceeds the credit limit; or
(ii) The credit card issuer offers the consumer the lowest annual percentage rate referenced in § 640.2(n)(1)(ii) available under the credit card offer for which the consumer applied, even if a lower annual percentage rate referenced in § 640.2(n)(1)(ii) is available under a different credit card offer issued by the card issuer.
(3)
Examples.
(i) A credit card issuer sends a solicitation to the consumer that discloses several possible purchase
annual percentage rates that may apply, such as 10, 12, or 14 percent, or a range of purchase annual percentage rates from 10 to 14 percent. The consumer applies for a credit card in response to the solicitation. The card issuer provides a credit card to the consumer with a purchase annual percentage rate of 12 percent based in whole or in part on a consumer report. Unless an exception applies under § 640.5, the card issuer may satisfy its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section by providing a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer because the consumer received credit at a purchase annual percentage rate greater than the lowest purchase annual percentage rate available under that solicitation.
(ii) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, except that the card issuer provides a credit card to the consumer at a purchase annual percentage rate of 10 percent. The card issuer is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer even if, under a different credit card solicitation, that consumer or other consumers might qualify for a purchase annual percentage rate of 8 percent.
(d)
Account review
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, a motor vehicle dealer is subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and must provide a risk-based pricing notice to a consumer in the form and manner required by this part if the motor vehicle dealer—
(i) Uses a consumer report in connection with a review of credit that has been extended to the consumer; and
(ii) Based in whole or in part on the consumer report, increases the annual percentage rate (the annual percentage rate referenced in § 640.2(n)(1)(ii) in the case of a credit card).
(2)
Example.
A credit card issuer periodically obtains consumer reports for the purpose of reviewing the terms of credit it has extended to consumers in connection with credit cards. As a result of this review, the credit card issuer increases the purchase annual percentage rate applicable to a consumer's credit card based in whole or in part on information in a consumer report. The credit card issuer is subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and must provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer.
§ 640.4
Content, form, and timing of risk-based pricing notices.
(a)
Content of the notice
—(1)
In general.
The risk-based pricing notice required by § 640.3(a) or (c) must include:
(i) A statement that a consumer report (or credit report) includes information about the consumer's credit history and the type of information included in that history;
(ii) A statement that the terms offered, such as the annual percentage rate, have been set based on information from a consumer report;
(iii) A statement that the terms offered may be less favorable than the terms offered to consumers with better credit histories;
(iv) A statement that the consumer is encouraged to verify the accuracy of the information contained in the consumer report and has the right to dispute any inaccurate information in the report;
(v) The identity of each consumer reporting agency that furnished a consumer report used in the credit decision;
(vi) A statement that federal law gives the consumer the right to obtain a copy of a consumer report from the consumer reporting agency or agencies identified in the notice without charge for 60 days after receipt of the notice;
(vii) A statement informing the consumer how to obtain a consumer report from the consumer reporting agency or agencies identified in the notice and providing contact information (including a toll-free telephone number, where applicable) specified by the consumer reporting agency or agencies;
(viii) A statement directing consumers to the websites of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Federal Trade Commission to obtain more information about consumer reports; and
(ix) If a credit score of the consumer to whom a motor vehicle dealer grants, extends, or otherwise provides credit is used in setting the material terms of credit:
(A) A statement that a credit score is a number that takes into account information in a consumer report, that
the consumer's credit score was used to set the terms of credit offered, and that a credit score can change over time to reflect changes in the consumer's credit history;
(B) The credit score used by the motor vehicle dealer in making the credit decision;
(C) The range of possible credit scores under the model used to generate the credit score;
(D) All of the key factors that adversely affected the credit score, which shall not exceed four key factors, except that if one of the key factors is the number of enquiries made with respect to the consumer report, the number of key factors shall not exceed five;
(E) The date on which the credit score was created; and
(F) The name of the consumer reporting agency or other person that provided the credit score.
(2)
Account review.
The risk-based pricing notice required by § 640.3(d) must include:
(i) A statement that a consumer report (or credit report) includes information about the consumer's credit history and the type of information included in that credit history;
(ii) A statement that the credit card issuer has conducted a review of the account using information from a consumer report;
(iii) A statement that as a result of the review, the annual percentage rate on the account has been increased based on information from a consumer report;
(iv) A statement that the consumer is encouraged to verify the accuracy of the information contained in the consumer report and has the right to dispute any inaccurate information in the report;
(v) The identity of each consumer reporting agency that furnished a consumer report used in the account review;
(vi) A statement that federal law gives the consumer the right to obtain a copy of a consumer report from the consumer reporting agency or agencies identified in the notice without charge for 60 days after receipt of the notice;
(vii) A statement informing the consumer how to obtain a consumer report from the consumer reporting agency or agencies identified in the notice and providing contact information (including a toll-free telephone number, where applicable) specified by the consumer reporting agency or agencies;
(viii) A statement directing consumers to the websites of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Federal Trade Commission to obtain more information about consumer reports; and
(ix) If a credit score of the consumer whose extension of credit is under review is used in increasing the annual percentage rate:
(A) A statement that a credit score is a number that takes into account information in a consumer report, that the consumer's credit score was used to set the terms of credit offered, and that a credit score can change over time to reflect changes in the consumer's credit history;
(B) The credit score used by the credit card issuer in making the credit decision;
(C) The range of possible credit scores under the model used to generate the credit score;
(D) All of the key factors that adversely affected the credit score, which shall not exceed four key factors, except that if one of the key factors is the number of enquiries made with respect to the consumer report, the number of key factors shall not exceed five;
(E) The date on which the credit score was created; and
(F) The name of the consumer reporting agency or other person that provided the credit score.
(b)
Form of the notice
—(1)
In general.
The risk-based pricing notice required by § 640.3(a), (c), or (d) must be:
(i) Clear and conspicuous; and
(ii) Provided to the consumer in oral, written, or electronic form.
(2)
Model forms.
Model forms of the risk-based pricing notice required by Sec. 640.3(a) and (c) are contained in appendices A-1 and A-6 of 16 CFR part 698. Appropriate use of Model form A-1 or A-6 is deemed to comply with the requirements of § 640.3(a) and (c). Model forms of the risk-based pricing notice required by § 640.3(d) are contained in appendices A-2 and A-7 of 16 CFR part 698. Appropriate use of Model form A-2
or A-7 is deemed to comply with the requirements of § 640.3(d). Use of the model forms is optional.
(c)
Timing
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a risk-based pricing notice must be provided to the consumer—
(i) In the case of a grant, extension, or other provision of closed-end credit, before consummation of the transaction, but not earlier than the time the decision to approve an application for, or a grant, extension, or other provision of, credit, is communicated to the consumer by the motor vehicle dealer required to provide the notice;
(ii) In the case of credit granted, extended, or provided under an open-end credit plan, before the first transaction is made under the plan, but not earlier than the time the decision to approve an application for, or a grant, extension, or other provision of, credit is communicated to the consumer by the motor vehicle dealer required to provide the notice; or
(iii) In the case of a review of credit that has been extended to the consumer, at the time the decision to increase the annual percentage rate (annual percentage rate referenced in § 640.2(n)(1)(ii) in the case of a credit card) based on a consumer report is communicated to the consumer by the motor vehicle dealer required to provide the notice, or if no notice of the increase in the annual percentage rate is provided to the consumer prior to the effective date of the change in the annual percentage rate (to the extent permitted by law), no later than five days after the effective date of the change in the annual percentage rate.
(2)
Application to certain automobile lending transactions.
When a person to whom a credit obligation is initially payable grants, extends, or provides credit to a consumer for the purpose of financing the purchase of an automobile from a motor vehicle dealer or other party not affiliated with the person, any requirement to provide a risk-based pricing notice pursuant to this part is satisfied if the person:
(i) Provides a notice described in § 640.3(a), 640.5(e), or 640.5(f) to the consumer within the time periods set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, § 640.5(e)(3), or 640.5(f)(4), as applicable; or
(ii) Arranges to have the motor vehicle dealer or other party provide a notice described in §§ 640.3(a), 640.5(e), or 640.5(f) to the consumer on its behalf within the time periods set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, § 640.5(e)(3), or § 640.5(f)(4), as applicable, and maintains reasonable policies and procedures to verify the motor vehicle dealer or other party provides such notice to the consumer within the applicable time periods. If the person arranges to have the motor vehicle dealer or other party provide a notice described in § 640.5(e), the person's obligation is satisfied if the consumer receives a notice containing a credit score obtained by the dealer or other party, even if a different credit score is obtained and used by the person on whose behalf the notice is provided.
(3)
Timing requirements for contemporaneous purchase credit.
When credit under an open-end credit plan is granted, extended, or provided to a consumer in person or by telephone for the purpose of financing the contemporaneous purchase of goods or services, any risk-based pricing notice required to be provided pursuant to this part (or the disclosures permitted under § 640.5(e) or (f)) may be provided at the earlier of:
(i) The time of the first mailing by the motor vehicle dealer to the consumer after the decision is made to approve the grant, extension, or other provision of open-end credit, such as in a mailing containing the account agreement or a credit card; or
(ii) Within 30 days after the decision to approve the grant, extension, or other provision of credit.
(d)
Multiple credit scores
—(1)
In general.
When a motor vehicle dealer obtains or creates two or more credit scores and uses one of those credit scores in setting the material terms of credit, for example, by using the low, middle, high, or most recent score, the notices described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section must include that credit score and information relating to that credit score required by paragraphs (a)(1)(ix) and (a)(2)(ix) of this section. When a motor vehicle dealer obtains or creates two or more credit scores and uses multiple credit
scores in setting the material terms of credit by, for example, computing the average of all the credit scores obtained or created, the notices described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section must include one of those credit scores and information relating to credit scores required by paragraphs (a)(1)(ix) and (a)(2)(ix) of this section. The notice may, at the motor vehicle dealer's option, include more than one credit score, along with the additional information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ix) and (a)(2)(ix) of this section for each credit score disclosed.
(2)
Examples.
(i) A motor vehicle dealer that uses consumer reports to set the material terms of automobile loans granted, extended, or provided to consumers regularly requests credit scores from several consumer reporting agencies and uses the low score when determining the material terms it will offer to the consumer. That motor vehicle dealer must disclose the low score in the notices described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(ii) A motor vehicle dealer that uses consumer reports to set the material terms of automobile loans granted, extended, or provided to consumers regularly requests credit scores from several consumer reporting agencies, each of which it uses in an underwriting program in order to determine the material terms it will offer to the consumer. That motor vehicle dealer may choose one of these scores to include in the notices described in paragraph (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
§ 640.5
Exceptions.
(a)
Application for specific terms
—(1)
In general.
A motor vehicle dealer is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer under § 640.3(a) or (c) if the consumer applies for specific material terms and is granted those terms, unless those terms were specified by the motor vehicle dealer using a consumer report after the consumer applied for or requested credit and after the motor vehicle dealer obtained the consumer report. For purposes of this section, “specific material terms” means a single material term, or set of material terms, such as an annual percentage rate of 10 percent, and not a range of alternatives, such as an annual percentage rate that may be 8, 10, or 12 percent, or between 8 and 12 percent.
(2)
Example.
A consumer receives a firm offer of credit from a motor vehicle dealer. The terms of the firm offer are based in whole or in part on information from a consumer report the motor vehicle dealer obtained under the FCRA's firm offer of credit provisions. The solicitation offers the consumer a loan with an annual percentage rate of 12 percent. The consumer applies for and receives a loan with an annual percentage rate of 12 percent. Other customers of the motor vehicle dealer have an annual percentage rate of 10 percent. The exception applies because the consumer applied for specific material terms and was granted those terms. Although the motor vehicle dealer specified the annual percentage rate in the firm offer of credit based in whole or in part on a consumer report, the motor vehicle dealer specified that material term before, not after, the consumer applied for or requested credit.
(b)
Adverse action notice.
A motor vehicle dealer is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer under § 640.3(a), (c), or (d) if the motor vehicle dealer provides an adverse action notice to the consumer under section 615(a) of the FCRA.
(c)
Prescreened solicitations
—(1)
In general.
A motor vehicle dealer is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer under § 640.3(a) or (c) if the motor vehicle dealer:
(i) Obtains a consumer report that is a prescreened list as described in section 604(c)(2) of the FCRA; and
(ii) Uses the consumer report for the purpose of making a firm offer of credit to the consumer.
(2)
More favorable material terms.
This exception applies to any firm offer of credit offered by a motor vehicle dealer to a consumer, even if the motor vehicle dealer makes other firm offers of credit to other consumers on more favorable material terms.
(3)
Example.
A motor vehicle dealer obtains two prescreened lists from a consumer reporting agency. One list includes consumers with high credit scores. The other list includes consumers with low credit scores. The
motor vehicle dealer mails a firm offer of credit to the high credit score consumers with an annual percentage rate of 10 percent. The motor vehicle dealer also mails a firm offer of credit to the low credit score consumers with an annual percentage rate of 14 percent. The motor vehicle dealer is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to the low credit score consumers who receive the 14 percent offer because use of a consumer report to make a firm offer of credit does not trigger the risk-based pricing notice requirement.
(d)
Loans secured by residential real property
—
credit score disclosure
—(1)
In general.
A motor vehicle dealer is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to a consumer under § 640.3(a) or (c) if:
(i) The consumer requests from the motor vehicle dealer an extension of credit that is or will be secured by one to four units of residential real property; and
(ii) The motor vehicle dealer provides to each consumer described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section a notice that contains the following—
(A) A statement that a consumer report (or credit report) is a record of the consumer's credit history and includes information about whether the consumer pays his or her obligations on time and how much the consumer owes to creditors;
(B) A statement that a credit score is a number that takes into account information in a consumer report and that a credit score can change over time to reflect changes in the consumer's credit history;
(C) A statement that the consumer's credit score can affect whether the consumer can obtain credit and what the cost of that credit will be;
(D) The information required to be disclosed to the consumer pursuant to section 609(g) of the FCRA;
(E) The distribution of credit scores among consumers who are scored under the same scoring model that is used to generate the consumer's credit score using the same scale as that of the credit score that is provided to the consumer, presented in the form of a bar graph containing a minimum of six bars that illustrates the percentage of consumers with credit scores within the range of scores reflected in each bar or by other clear and readily understandable graphical means, or a clear and readily understandable statement informing the consumer how his or her credit score compares to the scores of other consumers. Use of a graph or statement obtained from the person providing the credit score that meets the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(E) is deemed to comply with this requirement;
(F) A statement that the consumer is encouraged to verify the accuracy of the information contained in the consumer report and has the right to dispute any inaccurate information in the report;
(G) A statement that federal law gives the consumer the right to obtain copies of his or her consumer reports directly from the consumer reporting agencies, including a free report from each of the nationwide consumer reporting agencies once during any 12-month period;
(H) Contact information for the centralized source from which consumers may obtain their free annual consumer reports; and
(I) A statement directing consumers to the websites of the Board and Federal Trade Commission to obtain more information about consumer reports.
(2)
Form of the notice.
The notice described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section must be:
(i) Clear and conspicuous;
(ii) Provided on or with the notice required by section 609(g) of the FCRA;
(iii) Segregated from other information provided to the consumer, except for the notice required by section 609(g) of the FCRA; and
(iv) Provided to the consumer in writing and in a form that the consumer may keep.
(3)
Timing.
The notice described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section must be provided to the consumer at the time the disclosure required by section 609(g) of the FCRA is provided to the consumer, but in any event at or before consummation in the case of closed-end credit or before the first transaction is made under an open-end credit plan.
(4)
Multiple credit scores
—(i)
In general.
When a motor vehicle dealer obtains two or more credit scores from consumer reporting agencies and uses one of those credit scores in setting the material terms of credit granted, extended, or otherwise provided to a consumer, for example, by using the low, middle, high, or most recent score, the notice described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section must include that credit score and the other information required by that paragraph. When a motor vehicle dealer obtains two or more credit scores from consumer reporting agencies and uses multiple credit scores in setting the material terms of credit granted, extended, or otherwise provided to a consumer, for example, by computing the average of all the credit scores obtained, the notice described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section must include one of those credit scores and the other information required by that paragraph. The notice may, at the motor vehicle dealer's option, include more than one credit score, along with the additional information specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section for each credit score disclosed.
(ii)
Examples.
(A) A motor vehicle dealer that uses consumer reports to set the material terms of credit granted, extended, or provided to consumers regularly requests credit scores from several consumer reporting agencies and uses the low score when determining the material terms it will offer to the consumer. That motor vehicle dealer must disclose the low score in the notice described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(B) A motor vehicle dealer that uses consumer reports to set the material terms of mortgage credit granted, extended, or provided to consumers regularly requests credit scores from several consumer reporting agencies, each of which it uses in an underwriting program in order to determine the material terms it will offer to the consumer. That motor vehicle dealer may choose one of these scores to include in the notice described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(5)
Model form.
A model form of the notice described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section consolidated with the notice required by section 609(g) of the FCRA is contained in 16 CFR part 698, appendix A. Appropriate use of Model Form A-3 is deemed to comply with the requirements of § 640.5(d). Use of the model form is optional.
(e)
Other extensions of credit—credit score disclosure
—(1)
In general.
A motor vehicle dealer is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to a consumer under § 640.3(a) or (c) if:
(i) The consumer requests from the motor vehicle dealer an extension of credit other than credit that is or will be secured by one to four units of residential real property; and
(ii) The motor vehicle dealer provides to each consumer described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section a notice that contains the following—
(A) A statement that a consumer report (or credit report) is a record of the consumer's credit history and includes information about whether the consumer pays his or her obligations on time and how much the consumer owes to creditors;
(B) A statement that a credit score is a number that takes into account information in a consumer report and that a credit score can change over time to reflect changes in the consumer's credit history;
(C) A statement that the consumer's credit score can affect whether the consumer can obtain credit and what the cost of that credit will be;
(D) The current credit score of the consumer or the most recent credit score of the consumer that was previously calculated by the consumer reporting agency for a purpose related to the extension of credit;
(E) The range of possible credit scores under the model used to generate the credit score;
(F) The distribution of credit scores among consumers who are scored under the same scoring model that is used to generate the consumer's credit score using the same scale as that of the credit score that is provided to the consumer, presented in the form of a bar graph containing a minimum of six bars that illustrates the percentage of consumers with credit scores within the range of scores reflected in each bar, or by other clear and readily understandable graphical means, or a
clear and readily understandable statement informing the consumer how his or her credit score compares to the scores of other consumers. Use of a graph or statement obtained from the person providing the credit score that meets the requirements of this paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(F) is deemed to comply with this requirement;
(G) The date on which the credit score was created;
(H) The name of the consumer reporting agency or other person that provided the credit score;
(I) A statement that the consumer is encouraged to verify the accuracy of the information contained in the consumer report and has the right to dispute any inaccurate information in the report;
(J) A statement that federal law gives the consumer the right to obtain copies of his or her consumer reports directly from the consumer reporting agencies, including a free report from each of the nationwide consumer reporting agencies once during any 12-month period;
(K) Contact information for the centralized source from which consumers may obtain their free annual consumer reports; and
(L) A statement directing consumers to the websites of the Federal Reserve Board and Federal Trade Commission to obtain more information about consumer reports.
(2)
Form of the notice.
The notice described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section must be:
(i) Clear and conspicuous;
(ii) Segregated from other information provided to the consumer; and
(iii) Provided to the consumer in writing and in a form that the consumer may keep.
(3)
Timing.
The notice described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section must be provided to the consumer as soon as reasonably practicable after the credit score has been obtained, but in any event at or before consummation in the case of closed-end credit or before the first transaction is made under an open-end credit plan.
(4)
Multiple credit scores
—(i)
In General.
When a motor vehicle dealer obtains two or more credit scores from consumer reporting agencies and uses one of those credit scores in setting the material terms of credit granted, extended, or otherwise provided to a consumer, for example, by using the low, middle, high, or most recent score, the notice described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section must include that credit score and the other information required by that paragraph. When a motor vehicle dealer obtains two or more credit scores from consumer reporting agencies and uses multiple credit scores in setting the material terms of credit granted, extended, or otherwise provided to a consumer, for example, by computing the average of all the credit scores obtained, the notice described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section must include one of those credit scores and the other information required by that paragraph. The notice may, at the motor vehicle dealer's option, include more than one credit score, along with the additional information specified in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section for each credit score disclosed.
(ii)
Examples.
The manner in which multiple credit scores are to be disclosed under this section are substantially identical to the manner set forth in the examples contained in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section.
(5)
Model form.
A model form of the notice described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section is contained in 16 CFR part 698, appendix A. Appropriate use of Model Form A-4 is deemed to comply with the requirements of § 640.5(e). Use of the model form is optional.
(f)
Credit score not available
—(1)
In general.
A motor vehicle dealer is not required to provide a risk-based pricing notice to a consumer under § 640.3(a) or (c) if the motor vehicle dealer:
(i) Regularly obtains credit scores from a consumer reporting agency and provides credit score disclosures to consumers in accordance with paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section, but a credit score is not available from the consumer reporting agency from which the motor vehicle dealer regularly obtains credit scores for a consumer to whom the motor vehicle dealer grants, extends, or provides credit;
(ii) Does not obtain a credit score from another consumer reporting agency in connection with granting, extending, or providing credit to the consumer; and
(iii) Provides to the consumer a notice that contains the following—
(A) A statement that a consumer report (or credit report) includes information about the consumer's credit history and the type of information included in that history;
(B) A statement that a credit score is a number that takes into account information in a consumer report and that a credit score can change over time in response to changes in the consumer's credit history;
(C) A statement that credit scores are important because consumers with higher credit scores generally obtain more favorable credit terms;
(D) A statement that not having a credit score can affect whether the consumer can obtain credit and what the cost of that credit will be;
(E) A statement that a credit score about the consumer was not available from a consumer reporting agency, which must be identified by name, generally due to insufficient information regarding the consumer's credit history;
(F) A statement that the consumer is encouraged to verify the accuracy of the information contained in the consumer report and has the right to dispute any inaccurate information in the consumer report;
(G) A statement that federal law gives the consumer the right to obtain copies of his or her consumer reports directly from the consumer reporting agencies, including a free consumer report from each of the nationwide consumer reporting agencies once during any 12-month period;
(H) The contact information for the centralized source from which consumers may obtain their free annual consumer reports; and
(I) A statement directing consumers to the websites of the Board and Federal Trade Commission to obtain more information about consumer reports.
(2)
Example.
A motor vehicle dealer that uses consumer reports to set the material terms of credit granted, extended, or provided to consumers regularly requests credit scores from a particular consumer reporting agency and provides those credit scores and additional information to consumers to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section. That consumer reporting agency provides to the motor vehicle dealer a consumer report on a particular consumer that contains one trade line, but does not provide the motor vehicle dealer with a credit score on that consumer. If the motor vehicle dealer does not obtain a credit score from another consumer reporting agency and, based in whole or in part on information in a consumer report, grants, extends, or provides credit to the consumer, the motor vehicle dealer may provide the notice described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section. If, however, the motor vehicle dealer obtains a credit score from another consumer reporting agency, the motor vehicle dealer may not rely upon the exception in paragraph (f) of this section, but may satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(3)
Form of the notice.
The notice described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section must be:
(i) Clear and conspicuous;
(ii) Segregated from other information provided to the consumer; and
(iii) Provided to the consumer in writing and in a form that the consumer may keep.
(4)
Timing.
The notice described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section must be provided to the consumer as soon as reasonably practicable after the motor vehicle dealer has requested the credit score, but in any event not later than consummation of a transaction in the case of closed-end credit or when the first transaction is made under an open-end credit plan.
(5)
Model form.
A model form of the notice described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section is contained in 16 CFR part 698, appendix A. Appropriate use of Model Form A-5 is deemed to comply with the requirements of § 640.5(f). Use of the model form is optional.
[75 FR 2769, Jan. 15, 2010, as amended at 84 FR 23473, May 22, 2019]
§ 640.6
Rules of Construction.
For purposes of this part, the following rules of construction apply:
(a)
One notice per credit extension.
A consumer is entitled to no more than one risk-based pricing notice under § 640.3(a) or (c), or one notice under § 640.5(d), (e), or (f), for each grant, extension, or other provision of credit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, even if a consumer has previously received a risk-based pricing notice in connection with a grant, extension, or other provision of credit, another risk-based pricing notice is required if the conditions set forth in § 640.3(d) have been met.
(b)
Multi-party transactions
—(1)
Initial creditor.
The motor vehicle dealer to whom a credit obligation is initially payable must provide the risk-based pricing notice described in § 640.3(a) or (c), or satisfy the requirements for and provide the notice required under one of the exceptions in § 640.5(d), (e), or (f), even if that motor vehicle dealer immediately assigns the credit agreement to a third party and is not the source of funding for the credit.
(2)
Purchasers or assignees.
A purchaser or assignee of a credit contract with a consumer is not subject to the requirements of this part and is not required to provide the risk-based pricing notice described in § 640.3(a) or (c), or satisfy the requirements for and provide the notice required under one of the exceptions in § 640.5(d), (e), or (f).
(3)
Examples.
(i) A consumer obtains credit to finance the purchase of an automobile. If the motor vehicle dealer is the person to whom the loan obligation is initially payable, such as where the motor vehicle dealer is the original creditor under a retail installment sales contract, the motor vehicle dealer must provide the risk-based pricing notice to the consumer (or satisfy the requirements for and provide the notice required under one of the exceptions noted above), even if the motor vehicle dealer immediately assigns the loan to a bank or finance company. The bank or finance company, which is an assignee, has no duty to provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer.
(ii) A consumer obtains credit to finance the purchase of an automobile. If a bank or finance company is the person to whom the loan obligation is initially payable, the bank or finance company must provide the risk-based pricing notice to the consumer (or satisfy the requirements for and provide the notice required under one of the exceptions noted above) based on the terms offered by that bank or finance company only. The motor vehicle dealer has no duty to provide a risk-based pricing notice to the consumer. However, the bank or finance company may comply with this rule if the motor vehicle dealer has agreed to provide notices to consumers before consummation pursuant to an arrangement with the bank or finance company, as permitted under § 640.4(c).
(c)
Multiple consumers
—(1)
Risk-based pricing notices.
In a transaction involving two or more consumers who are granted, extended, or otherwise provided credit, a motor vehicle dealer must provide a notice to each consumer to satisfy the requirements of § 640.3(a) or (c). Whether the consumers have the same address or not, the motor vehicle dealer must provide a separate notice to each consumer if a notice includes a credit score(s). Each separate notice that includes a credit score(s) must contain only the credit score(s) of the consumer to whom the notice is provided, and not the credit score(s) of the other consumer. If the consumers have the same address, and the notice does not include a credit score(s), a motor vehicle dealer may satisfy the requirements by providing a single notice addressed to both consumers.
(2)
Credit score disclosure notices.
In a transaction involving two or more consumers who are granted, extended, or otherwise provided credit, a motor vehicle dealer must provide a separate notice to each consumer to satisfy the exceptions in § 640.5(d), (e), or (f). Whether the consumers have the same address or not, the motor vehicle dealer must provide a separate notice to each consumer. Each separate notice must contain only the credit score(s) of the consumer to whom the notice is provided, and not the credit score(s) of the other consumer.
(3)
Examples.
(i) Two consumers jointly apply for credit with a creditor. The creditor obtains credit scores on both consumers. Based in part on the credit scores, the creditor grants credit to the consumers on material terms that are
materially less favorable than the most favorable terms available to other consumers from the creditor. The creditor provides risk-based pricing notices to satisfy its obligations under this subpart. The creditor must provide a separate risk-based pricing notice to each consumer whether the consumers have the same address or not. Each risk-based pricing notice must contain only the credit score(s) of the consumer to whom the notice is provided.
(ii) Two consumers jointly apply for credit with a creditor. The two consumers reside at the same address. The creditor obtains credit scores on each of the two consumer applicants. The creditor grants credit to the consumers. The creditor provides credit score disclosure notices to satisfy its obligations under this part. Even though the two consumers reside at the same address, the creditor must provide a separate credit score disclosure notice to each of the consumers. Each notice must contain only the credit score of the consumer to whom the notice is provided.
Pt. 641

# PART 641—DUTIES OF USERS OF CONSUMER REPORTS REGARDING ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 315; 15 U.S.C. 1681c(h); 12 U.S.C. 5519(d).

# Source:
74 FR 22644, May 14, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 641.1
Duties of users of consumer reports regarding address discrepancies.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to users of consumer reports that are motor vehicle dealers excluded from Consumer Financial Protection Bureau jurisdiction as described in 12 U.S.C. 5519.
(b)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, a
notice of address discrepancy
means a notice sent to a user by a consumer reporting agency described in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p) pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1681c(h)(1), that informs the user of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency's file for the consumer.
(c)
Reasonable belief
—(1)
Requirement to form a reasonable belief.
A user must develop and implement reasonable policies and procedures designed to enable the user to form a reasonable belief that a consumer report relates to the consumer about whom it has requested the report, when the user receives a notice of address discrepancy.
(2)
Examples of reasonable policies and procedures.
(i) Comparing the information in the consumer report provided by the consumer reporting agency with information the user:
(A) Obtains and uses to verify the consumer's identity in accordance with the requirements of the Customer Identification Program (CIP) rules implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) (31 CFR 103.121);
(B) Maintains in its own records, such as applications, change of address notifications, other customer account records, or retained CIP documentation; or
(C) Obtains from third-party sources; or
(ii) Verifying the information in the consumer report provided by the consumer reporting agency with the consumer.
(d)
Consumer's address
—(1)
Requirement to furnish consumer's address to a consumer reporting agency.
A user must develop and implement reasonable policies and procedures for furnishing an address for the consumer that the user has reasonably confirmed is accurate to the consumer reporting agency described in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p) from whom it received the notice of address discrepancy when the user:
(i) Can form a reasonable belief that the consumer report relates to the consumer about whom the user requested the report;
(ii) Establishes a continuing relationship with the consumer; and
(iii) Regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to the consumer reporting agency from which the notice of address discrepancy relating to the consumer was obtained.
(2)
Examples of confirmation methods.
The user may reasonably confirm an address is accurate by:
(i) Verifying the address with the consumer about whom it has requested the report;
(ii) Reviewing its own records to verify the address of the consumer;
(iii) Verifying the address through third-party sources; or
(iv) Using other reasonable means.
(3)
Timing.
The policies and procedures developed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section must provide that the user will furnish the consumer's address that the user has reasonably confirmed is accurate to the consumer reporting agency described in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p) as part of the information it regularly furnishes for the reporting period in which it establishes a relationship with the consumer.
[74 FR 22644, May 14, 2009, as amended at 86 FR 51819, Sept. 17, 2021]
Pt. 642

# PART 642—PRESCREEN OPT-OUT NOTICE
Sec.
642.1
Purpose and scope.
642.2
Definitions.
642.3
Prescreen opt-out notice.
642.4
Effective date.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 311; 15 U.S.C. 1681m(d); 12 U.S.C. 5519(d).

# Source:
70 FR 5032, Jan. 31, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 642.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part implements section 213(a) of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, which requires the Federal Trade Commission to establish the format, type size, and manner of the notices to consumers, required by section 615(d) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”), regarding the right to prohibit (“opt out” of) the use of information in a consumer report to send them solicitations of credit or insurance.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to any motor vehicle dealer as defined in § 642.2 of this part that uses a consumer report on any consumer in connection with any credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer, and that is provided to that motor vehicle dealer under section 604(c)(1)(B) of the FCRA (15 U.S.C. 1681b(c)(1)(B)).
[70 FR 5032, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 86 FR 50850, Sept. 13, 2021]
§ 642.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Simple and easy to understand
means:
(1) A layered format as described in § 642.3 of this part;
(2) Plain language designed to be understood by ordinary consumers; and
(3) Use of clear and concise sentences, paragraphs, and sections.
(i)
Examples.
For purposes of this part, examples of factors to be considered in determining whether a statement is in plain language and uses clear and concise sentences, paragraphs, and sections include:
(A) Use of short explanatory sentences;
(B) Use of definite, concrete, everyday words;
(C) Use of active voice;
(D) Avoidance of multiple negatives;
(E) Avoidance of legal and technical business terminology;
(F) Avoidance of explanations that are imprecise and reasonably subject to different interpretations; and
(G) Use of language that is not misleading.
(ii) [Reserved]
(b)
Motor vehicle dealer
means any person excluded from Consumer Financial Protection Bureau jurisdiction as described in 12 U.S.C. 5519.
(c)
Principal promotional document
means the document designed to be seen first by the consumer, such as the cover letter.
[70 FR 5032, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 86 FR 50850, Sept. 13, 2021]
§ 642.3
Prescreen opt-out notice.
Any motor vehicle dealer that uses a consumer report on any consumer in connection with any credit or insurance transaction that is not initiated by the consumer, and that is provided to that person under section 604(c)(1)(B) of the FCRA (15 U.S.C. 1681b(c)(1)(B)), shall, with each written solicitation made to the consumer about the transaction, provide the consumer with the following statement,
consisting of a short portion and a long portion, which shall be in the same language as the offer of credit or insurance:
(a)
Short notice.
The short notice shall be a clear and conspicuous, and simple and easy to understand statement as follows:
(1)
Content.
The short notice shall state that the consumer has the right to opt out of receiving prescreened solicitations, and shall provide the toll-free number the consumer can call to exercise that right. The short notice also shall direct the consumer to the existence and location of the long notice, and shall state the heading for the long notice. The short notice shall not contain any other information.
(2)
Form.
The short notice shall be:
(i) In a type size that is larger than the type size of the principal text on the same page, but in no event smaller than 12-point type, or if provided by electronic means, then reasonable steps shall be taken to ensure that the type size is larger than the type size of the principal text on the same page;
(ii) On the front side of the first page of the principal promotional document in the solicitation, or, if provided electronically, on the same page and in close proximity to the principal marketing message;
(iii) Located on the page and in a format so that the statement is distinct from other text, such as inside a border; and
(iv) In a type style that is distinct from the principal type style used on the same page, such as bolded, italicized, underlined, and/or in a color that contrasts with the color of the principal text on the page, if the solicitation is in more than one color.
(b)
Long notice.
The long notice shall be a clear and conspicuous, and simple and easy to understand statement as follows:
(1)
Content.
The long notice shall state the information required by section 615(d) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681m(d)). The long notice shall not include any other information that interferes with, detracts from, contradicts, or otherwise undermines the purpose of the notice.
(2)
Form.
The long notice shall:
(i) Appear in the solicitation;
(ii) Be in a type size that is no smaller than the type size of the principal text on the same page, and, for solicitations provided other than by electronic means, the type size shall in no event be smaller than 8-point type;
(iii) Begin with a heading in capital letters and underlined, and identifying the long notice as the “
PRESCREEN
OPT-OUT NOTICE
”;
(iv) Be in a type style that is distinct from the principal type style used on the same page, such as bolded, italicized, underlined, and/or in a color that contrasts with the color of the principal text on the page, if the solicitation is in more than one color; and
(v) Be set apart from other text on the page, such as by including a blank line above and below the statement, and by indenting both the left and right margins from other text on the page.
[70 FR 5032, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 86 FR 50850, Sept. 13, 2021]
§ 642.4
Effective date.
This part is effective on August 1, 2005.
Pt. 660

# PART 660—DUTIES OF FURNISHERS OF INFORMATION TO CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCIES
Sec.
660.1
Scope.
660.2
Definitions.
660.3
Reasonable policies and procedures concerning the accuracy and integrity of furnisher information.
660.4
Direct disputes.
Appendix A to Part 660—Interagency Guidelines Concerning the Accuracy and Integrity of Information Furnished to Consumer Reporting Agencies

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 311; 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2; 12 U.S.C. 5519(d).

# Source:
74 FR 31525, July 1, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 660.1
Scope.
This part applies to furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies that are motor vehicle dealers as defined by § 660.2 of this part (referred to as “furnishers”).
[86 FR 51821, Sept. 17, 2021]
§ 660.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part and appendix A of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Accuracy
means that information that a furnisher provides to a consumer reporting agency about an account or other relationship with the consumer correctly:
(1) Reflects the terms of and liability for the account or other relationship;
(2) Reflects the consumer's performance and other conduct with respect to the account or other relationship; and
(3) Identifies the appropriate consumer.
(b)
Direct dispute
means a dispute submitted directly to a furnisher (including a furnisher that is a debt collector) by a consumer concerning the accuracy of any information contained in a consumer report and pertaining to an account or other relationship that the furnisher has or had with the consumer.
(c)
Furnisher
means an entity that furnishes information relating to consumers to one or more consumer reporting agencies for inclusion in a consumer report. An entity is not a furnisher when it:
(1) Provides information to a consumer reporting agency solely to obtain a consumer report in accordance with sections 604(a) and (f) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act;
(2) Is acting as a “consumer reporting agency” as defined in section 603(f) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act;
(3) Is a consumer to whom the furnished information pertains; or
(4) Is a neighbor, friend, or associate of the consumer, or another individual with whom the consumer is acquainted or who may have knowledge about the consumer, and who provides information about the consumer's character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living in response to a specific request from a consumer reporting agency.
(d)
Identity theft
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1022.3(h).
(e)
Integrity
means that information that a furnisher provides to a consumer reporting agency about an account or other relationship with the consumer:
(1) Is substantiated by the furnisher's records at the time it is furnished;
(2) Is furnished in a form and manner that is designed to minimize the likelihood that the information may be incorrectly reflected in a consumer report; and
(3) Includes the information in the furnisher's possession about the account or other relationship that the Commission has:
(i) Determined that the absence of which would likely be materially misleading in evaluating a consumer's creditworthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living; and (ii) Listed in section I.(b)(2)(iii) of Appendix A of this part.
(f)
Motor vehicle dealer
means any person excluded from Consumer Financial Protection Bureau jurisdiction as described in 12 U.S.C. 5519.
[74 FR 31525, July 1, 2009, as amended at 86 FR 51821, Sept. 17, 2021]
§ 660.3
Reasonable policies and procedures concerning the accuracy and integrity of furnished information.
(a)
Policies and procedures.
Each furnisher must establish and implement reasonable written policies and procedures regarding the accuracy and integrity of the information relating to consumers that it furnishes to a consumer reporting agency. The policies and procedures must be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of each furnisher's activities.
(b)
Guidelines.
Each furnisher must consider the guidelines in Appendix A of this part in developing its policies and procedures required by this section, and incorporate those guidelines that are appropriate.
(c)
Reviewing and updating policies and procedures.
Each furnisher must review its policies and procedures required by this section periodically and update them as necessary to ensure their continued effectiveness.
§ 660.4
Direct disputes.
(a)
General rule.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a furnisher must conduct a reasonable investigation of a direct dispute if it relates to:
(1) The consumer's liability for a credit account or other debt with the furnisher, such as direct disputes relating to whether there is or has been
identity theft or fraud against the consumer, whether there is individual or joint liability on an account, or whether the consumer is an authorized user of a credit account;
(2) The terms of a credit account or other debt with the furnisher, such as direct disputes relating to the type of account, principal balance, scheduled payment amount on an account, or the amount of the credit limit on an open-end account;
(3) The consumer's performance or other conduct concerning an account or other relationship with the furnisher, such as direct disputes relating to the current payment status, high balance, date a payment was made, the amount of a payment made, or the date an account was opened or closed; or
(4) Any other information contained in a consumer report regarding an account or other relationship with the furnisher that bears on the consumer's creditworthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living.
(b)
Exceptions.
The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to a furnisher if:
(1) The direct dispute relates to:
(i) The consumer's identifying information (other than a direct dispute relating to a consumer's liability for a credit account or other debt with the furnisher, as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) such as name(s), date of birth, Social Security number, telephone number(s), or address(es);
(ii) The identity of past or present employers;
(iii) Inquiries or requests for a consumer report;
(iv) Information derived from public records, such as judgments, bankruptcies, liens, and other legal matters (unless provided by a furnisher with an account or other relationship with the consumer);
(v) Information related to fraud alerts or active duty alerts; or
(vi) Information provided to a consumer reporting agency by another furnisher; or
(2) The furnisher has a reasonable belief that the direct dispute is submitted by, is prepared on behalf of the consumer by, or is submitted on a form supplied to the consumer by, a credit repair organization, as defined in 15 U.S.C. 1679a(3), or an entity that would be a credit repair organization, but for 15 U.S.C. 1679a(3)(B)(i).
(c)
Direct dispute address.
A furnisher is required to investigate a direct dispute only if a consumer submits a dispute notice to the furnisher at:
(1) The address of a furnisher provided by a furnisher and set forth on a consumer report relating to the consumer;
(2) An address clearly and conspicuously specified by the furnisher for submitting direct disputes that is provided to the consumer in writing or electronically (if the consumer has agreed to the electronic delivery of information from the furnisher); or
(3) Any business address of the furnisher if the furnisher has not so specified and provided an address for submitting direct disputes under paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(d)
Direct dispute notice contents.
A dispute notice must include:
(1) Sufficient information to identify the account or other relationship that is in dispute, such as an account number and the name, address, and telephone number of the consumer, if applicable;
(2) The specific information that the consumer is disputing and an explanation of the basis for the dispute; and
(3) All supporting documentation or other information reasonably required by the furnisher to substantiate the basis of the dispute. This documentation may include, for example: a copy of the relevant portion of the consumer report that contains the allegedly inaccurate information; a police report; a fraud or identity theft affidavit; a court order; or account statements.
(e)
Duty of furnisher after receiving a direct dispute notice.
After receiving a dispute notice from a consumer pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the furnisher must:
(1) Conduct a reasonable investigation with respect to the disputed information;
(2) Review all relevant information provided by the consumer with the dispute notice;
(3) Complete its investigation of the dispute and report the results of the investigation to the consumer before the expiration of the period under section 611(a)(1) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681i(a)(1)) within which a consumer reporting agency would be required to complete its action if the consumer had elected to dispute the information under that section; and
(4) If the investigation finds that the information reported was inaccurate, promptly notify each consumer reporting agency to which the furnisher provided inaccurate information of that determination and provide to the consumer reporting agency any correction to that information that is necessary to make the information provided by the furnisher accurate.
(f)
Frivolous or irrelevant disputes.
(1) A furnisher is not required to investigate a direct dispute if the furnisher has reasonably determined that the dispute is frivolous or irrelevant. A dispute qualifies as frivolous or irrelevant if:
(i) The consumer did not provide sufficient information to investigate the disputed information as required by paragraph (d) of this section;
(ii) The direct dispute is substantially the same as a dispute previously submitted by or on behalf of the consumer, either directly to the furnisher or through a consumer reporting agency, with respect to which the furnisher has already satisfied the applicable requirements of the Act or this section; provided, however, that a direct dispute is not substantially the same as a dispute previously submitted if the dispute includes information listed in paragraph (d) of this section that had not previously been provided to the furnisher; or
(iii) The furnisher is not required to investigate the direct dispute because one or more of the exceptions listed in paragraph (b) of this section applies.
(2)
Notice of determination.
Upon making a determination that a dispute is frivolous or irrelevant, the furnisher must notify the consumer of the determination not later than five business days after making the determination, by mail or, if authorized by the consumer for that purpose, by any other means available to the furnisher.
(3)
Contents of notice of determination that a dispute is frivolous or irrelevant.
A notice of determination that a dispute is frivolous or irrelevant must include the reasons for such determination and identify any information required to investigate the disputed information, which notice may consist of a standardized form describing the general nature of such information.
Pt. 660, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 660—Interagency Guidelines Concerning the Accuracy and Integrity of Information Furnished to Consumer Reporting Agencies
The Commission encourages voluntary furnishing of information to consumer reporting agencies. Section 660.3 of this part requires each furnisher to establish and implement reasonable written policies and procedures concerning the accuracy and integrity of the information it furnishes to consumer reporting agencies. Under § 660.3(b), a furnisher must consider the guidelines set forth below in developing its policies and procedures. In establishing these policies and procedures, a furnisher may include any of its existing policies and procedures that are relevant and appropriate. Section 660.3(c) requires each furnisher to review its policies and procedures periodically and update them as necessary to ensure their continued effectiveness.

# I. Nature, Scope, and Objectives of Policies and Procedures
(a)
Nature and Scope.
Section 660.3(a) of this part requires that a furnisher's policies and procedures be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the furnisher's activities. In developing its policies and procedures, a furnisher should consider, for example:
(1) The types of business activities in which the furnisher engages;
(2) The nature and frequency of the information the furnisher provides to consumer reporting agencies; and
(3) The technology used by the furnisher to furnish information to consumer reporting agencies.
(b)
Objectives.
A furnisher's policies and procedures should be reasonably designed to promote the following objectives:
(1) To furnish information about accounts or other relationships with a consumer that is accurate, such that the furnished information:
(i) Identifies the appropriate consumer;
(ii) Reflects the terms of and liability for those accounts or other relationships; and
(iii) Reflects the consumer's performance and other conduct with respect to the account or other relationship;
(2) To furnish information about accounts or other relationships with a consumer that has integrity, such that the furnished information:
(i) Is substantiated by the furnisher's records at the time it is furnished;
(ii) Is furnished in a form and manner that is designed to minimize the likelihood that the information may be incorrectly reflected in a consumer report; thus, the furnished information should:
(A) Include appropriate identifying information about the consumer to whom it pertains; and
(B) Be furnished in a standardized and clearly understandable form and manner and with a date specifying the time period to which the information pertains; and
(iii) Includes the credit limit, if applicable and in the furnisher's possession;
(3) To conduct reasonable investigations of consumer disputes and take appropriate actions based on the outcome of such investigations; and
(4) To update the information it furnishes as necessary to reflect the current status of the consumer's account or other relationship, including, for example:
(i) Any transfer of an account (
e.g.,
by sale or assignment for collection) to a third party; and
(ii) Any cure of the consumer's failure to abide by the terms of the account or other relationship.

# II. Establishing and Implementing Policies and Procedures
In establishing and implementing its policies and procedures, a furnisher should:
(a) Identify practices or activities of the furnisher that can compromise the accuracy or integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies, such as by:
(1) Reviewing its existing practices and activities, including the technological means and other methods it uses to furnish information to consumer reporting agencies and the frequency and timing of its furnishing of information;
(2) Reviewing its historical records relating to accuracy or integrity or to disputes; reviewing other information relating to the accuracy or integrity of information provided by the furnisher to consumer reporting agencies; and considering the types of errors, omissions, or other problems that may have affected the accuracy or integrity of information it has furnished about consumers to consumer reporting agencies;
(3) Considering any feedback received from consumer reporting agencies, consumers, or other appropriate parties;
(4) Obtaining feedback from the furnisher's staff; and
(5) Considering the potential impact of the furnisher's policies and procedures on consumers.
(b) Evaluate the effectiveness of existing policies and procedures of the furnisher regarding the accuracy and integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies; consider whether new, additional, or different policies and procedures are necessary; and consider whether implementation of existing policies and procedures should be modified to enhance the accuracy and integrity of information about consumers furnished to consumer reporting agencies.
(c) Evaluate the effectiveness of specific methods (including technological means) the furnisher uses to provide information to consumer reporting agencies; how those methods may affect the accuracy and integrity of the information it provides to consumer reporting agencies; and whether new, additional, or different methods (including technological means) should be used to provide information to consumer reporting agencies to enhance the accuracy and integrity of that information.

# III. Specific Components of Policies and Procedures
In developing its policies and procedures, a furnisher should address the following, as appropriate:
(a) Establishing and implementing a system for furnishing information about consumers to consumer reporting agencies that is appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the furnisher's business operations.
(b) Using standard data reporting formats and standard procedures for compiling and furnishing data, where feasible, such as the electronic transmission of information about consumers to consumer reporting agencies.
(c) Maintaining records for a reasonable period of time, not less than any applicable recordkeeping requirement, in order to substantiate the accuracy of any information about consumers it furnishes that is subject to a direct dispute.
(d) Establishing and implementing appropriate internal controls regarding the accuracy and integrity of information about consumers furnished to consumer reporting agencies, such as by implementing standard procedures and verifying random samples of information provided to consumer reporting agencies.
(e) Training staff that participates in activities related to the furnishing of information about consumers to consumer reporting agencies to implement the policies and procedures.
(f) Providing for appropriate and effective oversight of relevant service providers whose
activities may affect the accuracy or integrity of information about consumers furnished to consumer reporting agencies to ensure compliance with the policies and procedures.
(g) Furnishing information about consumers to consumer reporting agencies following mergers, portfolio acquisitions or sales, or other acquisitions or transfers of accounts or other obligations in a manner that prevents re-aging of information, duplicative reporting, or other problems that may similarly affect the accuracy or integrity of the information furnished.
(h) Deleting, updating, and correcting information in the furnisher's records, as appropriate, to avoid furnishing inaccurate information.
(i) Conducting reasonable investigations of disputes.
(j) Designing technological and other means of communication with consumer reporting agencies to prevent duplicative reporting of accounts, erroneous association of information with the wrong consumer(s), and other occurrences that may compromise the accuracy or integrity of information provided to consumer reporting agencies.
(k) Providing consumer reporting agencies with sufficient identifying information in the furnisher's possession about each consumer about whom information is furnished to enable the consumer reporting agency properly to identify the consumer.
(l) Conducting a periodic evaluation of its own practices, consumer reporting agency practices of which the furnisher is aware, investigations of disputed information, corrections of inaccurate information, means of communication, and other factors that may affect the accuracy or integrity of information furnished to consumer reporting agencies.
(m) Complying with applicable requirements under the Fair Credit Reporting Act and its implementing regulations.
Pt. 680

# PART 680—AFFILIATE MARKETING
Sec.
680.1
Purpose and scope.
680.2
Examples.
680.3
Definitions.
680.4-680.20
[Reserved]
680.21
Affiliate marketing opt-out and exceptions.
680.22
Scope and duration of opt-out.
680.23
Contents of opt-out notice; consolidated and equivalent notices.
680.24
Reasonable opportunity to opt out.
680.25
Reasonable and simple methods of opting out.
680.26
Delivery of opt-out notices.
680.27
Renewal of opt-out.
680.28
Effective date, compliance date, and prospective application.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5519(d); 15 U.S.C. 1681s-3; 15 U.S.C. 1681s-3 note.

# Source:
72 FR 61455, Oct. 30, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 680.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement section 214 of the Fair and Accu-rate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, which (by adding section 624 to Fair Credit Reporting Act) regulates the use, for marketing solicitation purposes, of consumer information provided by persons affiliated with the person making the solicitation.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to any motor vehicle dealer as defined in § 680.3 that uses information from its affiliates for the purpose of marketing solicitations, or provides information to its affiliates for that purpose.
[72 FR 61455, Oct. 30, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 51610, Sept. 16, 2021]
§ 680.2
Examples.
The examples in this part are not exclusive. Compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this part. Examples in a paragraph illustrate only the issue described in the paragraph and do not illustrate any other issue that may arise in this part.
§ 680.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Act.
The term “Act” means the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
).
(b)
Affiliate.
The term “affiliate” means any company that is related by common ownership or common corporate control with another company.
(c)
Clear and conspicuous.
The term “clear and conspicuous” means reasonably under-standable and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information presented.
(d)
Common ownership or common corporate control.
The term “common ownership or common corporate control” means a relationship between two companies under which:
(1) One company has, with respect to the other company:
(i) Ownership, control, or the power to vote 25 percent or more of the outstanding shares of any class of voting
security of a company, directly or indirectly, or acting through one or more other persons;
(ii) Control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of a company; or
(iii) The power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company, as the Commission determines; or
(2) Any person has, with respect to both companies, a relationship described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iii) of this section.
(e)
Company.
The term “company” means any corporation, limited liability company, business trust, general or limited partnership, association, or similar organization.
(f)
Concise
—(1)
In general.
The term “concise” means a reasonably brief expression or statement.
(2)
Combination with other required disclosures.
A notice required by this part may be concise even if it is combined with other disclosures required or authorized by federal or state law.
(g)
Consumer.
The term “consumer” means an individual.
(h)
Eligibility information.
The term “eligibility information” means any information the communication of which would be a consumer report if the exclusions from the definition of “consumer report” in section 603(d)(2)(A) of the Act did not apply. Eligibility information does not include aggregate or blind data that does not contain personal identifiers such as account numbers, names, or addresses.
(i)
Motor vehicle dealer.
The term “motor vehicle dealer” means any person excluded from Consumer Financial Protection Bureau jurisdiction as described in 12 U.S.C. 5519.
(j)
Person.
The term “person” means any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity.
(k)
Pre-existing business relationship
—(1)
In general.
The term “pre-existing business relationship” means a relationship between a person, or a person's licensed agent, and a consumer based on—
(i) A financial contract between the person and the consumer which is in force on the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this part;
(ii) The purchase, rental, or lease by the consumer of the persons' goods or services, or a financial transaction (including holding an active account or a policy in force or having another continuing relationship) between the consumer and the person, during the 18-month period immediately preceding the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this part; or
(iii) An inquiry or application by the consumer regarding a product or service offered by that person during the three-month period immediately preceding the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this part.
(2)
Examples of pre-existing business relationships.
(i) If a consumer has an existing loan account with a creditor, the creditor has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services.
(ii) If a consumer obtained a mortgage from a mortgage lender, but refinanced the mortgage loan with a different lender when the mortgage loan came due, the first mortgage lender has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for 18 months after the date the outstanding balance of the loan is paid and the loan is closed.
(iii) If a consumer obtains a mortgage, the mortgage lender has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer. If the mortgage lender sells the consumer's entire loan to an investor, the mortgage lender has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for 18 months after the date it sells the loan, and the investor has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer upon purchasing the loan. If,
however, the mortgage lender sells a fractional interest in the consumer's loan to an investor but also retains an ownership interest in the loan, the mortgage lender continues to have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer, but the investor does not have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer. If the mortgage lender retains ownership of the loan, but sells ownership of the servicing rights to the consumer's loan, the mortgage lender continues to have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer. The purchaser of the servicing rights also has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer as of the date it purchases ownership of the servicing rights, but only if it collects payments from or otherwise deals directly with the consumer on a continuing basis.
(iv) If a consumer applies to a creditor for a product or service that it offers, but does not obtain a product or service from or enter into a financial contract or transaction with the creditor, the creditor has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can therefore use eligibility information it receives from an affiliate to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for three months after the date of the application.
(v) If a consumer makes a telephone inquiry to a creditor about its products or services and provides contact information to the creditor, but does not obtain a product or service from or enter into a financial contract or transaction with the creditor, the creditor has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can therefore use eligibility information it receives from an affiliate to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for three months after the date of the inquiry.
(vi) If a consumer makes an inquiry to a creditor by e-mail about its products or services, but does not obtain a product or service from or enter into a financial contract or transaction with the creditor, the creditor has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can therefore use eligibility information it receives from an affiliate to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for three months after the date of the inquiry.
(vii) If a consumer has an existing relationship with a creditor that is part of a group of affiliated companies, makes a telephone call to the centralized call center for the group of affiliated companies to inquire about products or services offered by the insurance affiliate, and provides contact information to the call center, the call constitutes an inquiry to the insurance affiliate that offers those products or services. The insurance affiliate has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can therefore use eligibility information it receives from its affiliated creditor to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for three months after the date of the inquiry.
(3)
Examples where no pre-existing business relationship is created.
(i) If a consumer makes a telephone call to a centralized call center for a group of affiliated companies to inquire about the consumer's existing account with a creditor, the call does not constitute an inquiry to any affiliate other than the creditor that holds the consumer's account and does not establish a pre-existing business relationship between the consumer and any affiliate of the account-holding creditor.
(ii) If a consumer who has a loan account with a creditor makes a telephone call to an af-filiate of the creditor to ask about the affiliate's retail locations and hours, but does not make an inquiry about the affiliate's products or services, the call does not constitute an inquiry and does not establish a pre-existing business relationship between the consumer and the affiliate. Also, the affiliate's capture of the consumer's telephone number does not constitute an inquiry and does not establish a pre-existing business relationship between the consumer and the affiliate.
(iii) If a consumer makes a telephone call to a creditor in response to an advertisement that offers a free promotional item to consumers who call a toll-free number, but the advertisement does not indicate that creditor's products or services will be marketed to consumers who call in response, the
call does not create a pre-existing business relationship between the consumer and the creditor because the consumer has not made an inquiry about a product or service offered by the creditor, but has merely responded to an offer for a free promotional item.
(l)
Solicitation
—(1)
In general.
The term “solicitation” means the marketing of a product or service initiated by a person to a particular consumer that is—
(i) Based on eligibility information communicated to that person by its affiliate as described in this part; and
(ii) Intended to encourage the consumer to purchase or obtain such product or service.
(2)
Exclusion of marketing directed at the general public.
A solicitation does not include marketing communications that are directed at the general public. For example, television, general circulation magazine, and billboard advertisements do not constitute solicitations, even if those communications are intended to encourage consumers to purchase products and services from the person initiating the communications.
(3)
Examples of solicitations.
A solicitation would include, for example, a telemarketing call, direct mail, e-mail, or other form of marketing communication directed to a particular consumer that is based on eligibility information received from an affiliate.
(m)
You
means a person described in § 680.1(b).
[72 FR 61455, Oct. 30, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 51610, Sept. 16, 2021]
§§ 680.4-680.20
[Reserved]
§ 680.21
Affiliate marketing opt-out and exceptions.
(a)
Initial notice and opt-out requirement
—(1)
In general.
You may not use eligibility information about a consumer that you receive from an affiliate to make a solicitation for marketing purposes to the consumer, unless—
(i) It is clearly and conspicuously disclosed to the consumer in writing or, if the consumer agrees, electronically, in a concise notice that you may use eligibility information about that consumer received from an affiliate to make solicitations for marketing purposes to the consumer;
(ii) The consumer is provided a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to “opt out,” or prohibit you from using eligibility information to make solicitations for marketing purposes to the consumer; and
(iii) The consumer has not opted out.
(2)
Example.
A consumer has a homeowner's insurance policy with an insurance company. The insurance company furnishes eligibility information about the consumer to its affiliated creditor. Based on that eligibility information, the creditor wants to make a solicitation to the consumer about its home equity loan products. The creditor does not have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and none of the other exceptions apply. The creditor is prohibited from using eligibility information received from its insurance affiliate to make solicitations to the consumer about its home equity loan products unless the consumer is given a notice and opportunity to opt out and the consumer does not opt out.
(3)
Affiliates who may provide the notice.
The notice required by this paragraph (a) must be provided:
(i) By an affiliate that has or has previously had a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer; or
(ii) As part of a joint notice from two or more members of an affiliated group of companies, provided that at least one of the affiliates on the joint notice has or has previously had a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer.
(b)
Making solicitations
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of this part, you make a solicitation for marketing purposes if—
(i) You receive eligibility information from an affiliate;
(ii) You use that eligibility information to do one or more of the following:
(A) Identify the consumer or type of consumer to receive a solicitation;
(B) Establish criteria used to select the consumer to receive a solicitation; or
(C) Decide which of your products or services to market to the consumer or tailor your solicitation to that consumer; and
(iii) As a result of your use of the eligibility information, the consumer is provided a solicitation.
(2)
Receiving eligibility information from an affiliate, including through a common database.
You may receive eligibility information from an affiliate in various ways, including when the affiliate places that information into a common database that you may access.
(3)
Receipt or use of eligibility information by your service provider.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, you receive or use an affiliate's eligibility information if a service provider acting on your behalf (whether an affiliate or a nonaffiliated third party) receives or uses that information in the manner described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section. All relevant facts and circumstances will determine whether a person is acting as your service provider when it receives or uses an affiliate's eligibility information in connection with marketing your products and services.
(4)
Use by an affiliate of its own eligibility information.
Unless you have used eligibility information that you receive from an affiliate in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, you do not make a solicitation subject to this part if your affiliate:
(i) Uses its own eligibility information that it obtained in connection with a pre-existing business relationship it has or had with the consumer to market your products or services to the consumer; or
(ii) Directs its service provider to use the affiliate's own eligibility information that it obtained in connection with a pre-existing business relationship it has or had with the consumer to market your products or services to the consumer, and you do not communicate directly with the service provider regarding that use.
(5)
Use of eligibility information by a service provider
—(i)
In general.
You do not make a solicitation subject to this part if a service provider (including an affiliated or third-party service provider that maintains or accesses a common database that you may access) receives eligibility information from your affiliate that your affiliate obtained in connection with a pre-existing business relationship it has or had with the consumer and uses that eligibility information to market your products or services to the consumer, so long as—
(A) Your affiliate controls access to and use of its eligibility information by the service provider (including the right to establish the specific terms and conditions under which the service provider may use such information to market your products or services);
(B) Your affiliate establishes specific terms and conditions under which the service provider may access and use the affiliate's eligibility information to market your products and services (or those of affiliates generally) to the consumer, such as the identity of the affiliated companies whose products or services may be marketed to the consumer by the service provider, the types of products or services of affiliated companies that may be marketed, and the number of times the consumer may receive marketing materials, and periodically evaluates the service provider's compliance with those terms and conditions;
(C) Your affiliate requires the service provider to implement reasonable policies and procedures designed to ensure that the service provider uses the affiliate's eligibility information in accordance with the terms and conditions established by the affiliate relating to the marketing of your products or services;
(D) Your affiliate is identified on or with the marketing materials provided to the consumer; and
(E) You do not directly use your affiliate's eligibility information in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Writing requirements.
(A) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) and (C) of this section must be set forth in a written agreement between your affiliate and the service provider; and
(B) The specific terms and conditions established by your affiliate as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(i)(B) of this section must be set forth in writing.
(6)
Examples of making solicitations.
(i) A consumer has a loan account with a creditor, which is affiliated with an insurance company. The insurance company receives eligibility information
about the consumer from the creditor. The insurance company uses that eligibility information to identify the consumer to receive a solicitation about insurance products, and, as a result, the insurance company provides a solicitation to the consumer about its insurance products. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the insurance company has made a solicitation to the consumer.
(ii) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, except that after using the eligibility information to identify the consumer to receive a solicitation about insurance products, the insurance company asks the creditor to send the solicitation to the consumer and the creditor does so. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the insurance company has made a solicitation to the consumer because it used eligibility information about the consumer that it received from an affiliate to identify the consumer to receive a solicitation about its products or services, and, as a result, a solicitation was provided to the consumer about the insurance company's products.
(iii) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, except that eligibility information about consumers that have loan accounts with the creditor is placed into a common database that all members of the affiliated group of companies may independently access and use. Without using the creditor's eligibility information, the insurance company develops selection criteria and provides those criteria, marketing materials, and related instructions to the creditor. The creditor reviews eligibility information about its own consumers using the selection criteria provided by the insurance company to determine which consumers should receive the insurance company's marketing materials and sends marketing materials about the insurance company's products to those consumers. Even though the insurance company has received eligibility information through the common database as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it did not use that information to identify consumers or establish selection criteria; instead, the creditor used its own eligibility information. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the insurance company has not made a solicitation to the consumer.
(iv) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section, except that the creditor provides the insurance company's criteria to the creditor's service provider and directs the service provider to use the creditor's eligibility information to identify creditor consumers who meet the criteria and to send the insurance company's marketing materials to those consumers. The insurance company does not communicate directly with the service provider regarding the use of the creditor's information to market its products to the creditor's consumers. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the insurance company has not made a solicitation to the consumer.
(v) An affiliated group of companies includes a creditor, an insurance company, and a service provider. Each affiliate in the group places information about its consumers into a common database. The service provider has access to all information in the common database. The creditor controls access to and use of its eligibility information by the service provider. This control is set forth in a written agreement between the creditor and the service provider. The written agreement also requires the service provider to establish reasonable policies and procedures designed to ensure that the service provider uses the creditor's eligibility information in accordance with specific terms and conditions established by the creditor relating to the marketing of the products and services of all affiliates, including the insurance company. In a separate written communication, the creditor specifies the terms and conditions under which the service provider may use the creditor's eligibility information to market the insurance company's products and services to the creditor's consumers. The specific terms and conditions are: a list of affiliated companies (including the insurance company) whose products or services may be marketed to the creditor's consumers by the service provider; the specific products or types of products that may be marketed to
the creditor's consumers by the service provider; the categories of eligibility information that may be used by the service provider in marketing products or services to the creditor's consumers; the types or categories of the creditor's consumers to whom the service provider may market products or services of creditor affiliates; the number and/or types of marketing communications that the service provider may send to the creditor's consumers; and the length of time during which the service provider may market the prod-ucts or services of the creditor's affiliates to its consumers. The creditor periodically evaluates the service provider's compliance with these terms and conditions. The insurance company asks the service provider to market insurance products to certain consumers who have loan accounts with the creditor. Without using the creditor's eligibility information, the insurance company develops selection criteria and provides those criteria, marketing materials, and related instructions to the service provider. The service provider uses the creditor's eligibility information from the common database to identify the creditor's consumers to whom insurance products will be marketed. When the insurance company's marketing materials are provided to the identified consumers, the name of the creditor is displayed on the insurance marketing materials, an introductory letter that accompanies the marketing materials, an account statement that accompanies the marketing materials, or the envelope containing the marketing materials. The re-quirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section have been satisfied, and the insurance company has not made a solicitation to the consumer.
(vi) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section, except that the terms and conditions permit the service provider to use the creditor's eligibility information to market the products and services of other affiliates to the creditor's consumers whenever the service provider deems it appropriate to do so. The service provider uses the creditor's eligibility information in accordance with the discretion af-forded to it by the terms and conditions. Because the terms and conditions are not specific, the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section have not been satisfied.
(c)
Exceptions.
The provisions of this part do not apply to you if you use eligibility information that you receive from an affiliate:
(1) To make a solicitation for marketing purposes to a consumer with whom you have a pre-existing business relationship;
(2) To facilitate communications to an individual for whose benefit you provide employee benefit or other services pursuant to a contract with an employer related to and arising out of the current employment relationship or status of the individual as a participant or beneficiary of an employee benefit plan;
(3) To perform services on behalf of an affiliate, except that this paragraph shall not be construed as permitting you to send solicitations on behalf of an affiliate if the affiliate would not be permitted to send the solicitation as a result of the election of the consumer to opt out under this part;
(4) In response to a communication about your products or services initiated by the consumer;
(5) In response to an authorization or request by the consumer to receive solicitations; or
(6) If your compliance with this part would prevent you from complying with any provision of State insurance laws pertaining to unfair discrimination in any State in which you are lawfully doing business.
(d)
Examples of exceptions
—(1)
Example of the pre-existing business relationship exception.
A consumer has a loan account with a creditor. The consumer also has a relationship with the creditor's securities affiliate for management of the consumer's securities portfolio. The creditor receives eligibility information about the consumer from its securities affiliate and uses that information to make a solicitation to the consumer about the creditor's wealth management services. The creditor may make this solicitation even if the consumer has not been given a notice and opportunity to opt out because the creditor has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer.
(2)
Examples of service provider exception.
(i) A consumer has an insurance policy issued by an insurance company. The insurance company furnishes eligibility information about the consumer to an affiliated creditor. Based on that eligibility information, the creditor wants to make a solicitation to the consumer about its credit products. The creditor does not have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and none of the other exceptions in para-graph (c) of this section apply. The consumer has been given an opt-out notice and has elected to opt out of receiving such solicitations. The creditor asks a service provider to send the solicitation to the consumer on its behalf. The service provider may not send the solicitation on behalf of the creditor because, as a result of the consumer's opt-out election, the creditor is not permitted to make the solicitation.
(ii) The same facts as in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, except the consumer has been given an opt-out notice, but has not elected to opt out. The creditor asks a service provider to send the solicitation to the consumer on its behalf. The service provider may send the solicitation on behalf of the creditor because, as a result of the consumer's not opting out, the creditor is permitted to make the solicitation.
(3)
Examples of consumer-initiated communications.
(i) A consumer who has a consumer loan account with a finance company initiates a communication with the creditor's mortgage lending affiliate to request information about a mortgage. The mortgage lender affiliate may use eligibility information about the consumer it obtains from the finance company or any other affiliate to make solicitations regarding mortgage products in response to the consumer-initiated communication.
(ii) A consumer who has a loan account with a creditor contacts the creditor to request information about how to save and invest for a child's college education without specifying the type of product in which the consumer may be interested. Information about a range of different products or services offered by the creditor and one or more affiliates of the creditor may be responsive to that communication. Such products or services may include the following: mutual funds offered by the creditor's mutual fund affil-iate; section 529 plans offered by the creditor, its mutual fund affiliate, or another securities affiliate; or trust services offered by a different creditor in the affiliated group. Any affiliate offering investment products or services that would be responsive to the consumer's request for information about saving and investing for a child's college education may use eligibility information to make solicitations to the consumer in response to this communication.
(iii) A credit card issuer makes a marketing call to the consumer without using eligibility information received from an affiliate. The issuer leaves a voice-mail message that invites the consumer to call a toll-free number to apply for the issuer's credit card. If the consumer calls the toll-free number to inquire about the credit card, the call is a consumer-initiated communication about a product or service and the credit card issuer may now use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer.
(iv) A consumer calls a creditor to ask about retail locations and hours, but does not request information about products or services. The creditor may not use eligibility information it receives from an affiliate to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services because the consumer-initiated communication does not relate to the creditor's products or services. Thus, the use of eligibility information received from an affiliate would not be responsive to the communication and the exception does not apply.
(v) A consumer calls a creditor to ask about office locations and hours. The customer service representative asks the consumer if there is a particular product or service about which the consumer is seeking information. The consumer responds that the consumer wants to stop in and find out about second mortgage loans. The customer service representative offers to provide that information by telephone and mail additional information and application materials to the consumer. The
consumer agrees and provides or confirms contact information for receipt of the materials to be mailed. The creditor may use eligibility information it receives from an affiliate to make solicitations to the consumer about mortgage loan products because such solicitations respond to the consumer-initiated communication about products or services.
(4)
Examples of consumer authorization or request for solicitations.
(i) A consumer who obtains a mortgage from a mortgage lender authorizes or requests information about homeowner's insurance offered by the mortgage lender's insurance affiliate. Such authorization or request, whether given to the mortgage lender or to the insurance affiliate, would permit the insurance affiliate to use eligibility information about the consumer it obtains from the mortgage lender or any other affiliate to make solicitations to the consumer about homeowner's insurance.
(ii) A consumer completes an online application to apply for a credit card from a department store. The store's online application contains a blank check box that the consumer may check to authorize or request information from the store's affiliates. The consumer checks the box. The consumer has authorized or requested solicitations from store's affiliates.
(iii) A consumer completes an online application to apply for a credit card from a department store. The store's online application contains a pre-selected check box indicating that the consumer authorizes or requests information from the store's affiliates. The consumer does not deselect the check box. The consumer has not authorized or requested solicitations from the store's affiliates.
(iv) The terms and conditions of a credit account agreement contain preprinted boilerplate language stating that by applying to open an account the consumer authorizes or requests to receive solicitations from the creditor's affiliates. The consumer has not authorized or requested solicitations from the creditor's affiliates.
(e)
Relation to affiliate-sharing notice and opt-out.
Nothing in this part limits the responsibility of a person to comply with the notice and opt-out provisions of section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the Act where applicable.
§ 680.22
Scope and duration of opt-out.
(a)
Scope of opt-out
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the consumer's election to opt out prohibits any affiliate covered by the opt-out notice from using eligibility information received from another affiliate as described in the notice to make solicitations to the consumer.
(2)
Continuing relationship
—(i)
In general.
If the consumer establishes a continuing relationship with you or your affiliate, an opt-out notice may apply to eligibility information obtained in connection with—
(A) A single continuing relationship or multiple continuing relationships that the consumer establishes with you or your affiliates, including continuing relationships established subsequent to delivery of the opt-out notice, so long as the notice adequately describes the continuing relationships covered by the opt-out; or
(B) Any other transaction between the consumer and you or your affiliates as described in the notice.
(ii)
Examples of continuing relationships.
A consumer has a continuing relationship with you or your affiliate if the consumer—
(A) Opens a credit account with you or your affiliate;
(B) Obtains a loan for which you or your affiliate owns the servicing rights;
(C) Purchases an insurance product from you or your affiliate;
(D) Holds an investment product through you or your affiliate, such as when you act or your affiliate acts as a custodian for securities or for assets in an individual retirement arrangement;
(E) Enters into an agreement or understanding with you or your affiliate whereby you or your affiliate undertakes to arrange or broker a home mortgage loan for the consumer;
(F) Enters into a lease of personal property with you or your affiliate; or
(G) Obtains financial, investment, or economic advisory services from you or your affiliate for a fee.
(3)
No continuing relationship
—(i)
In general.
If there is no continuing relationship between a consumer and you or your affiliate, and you or your affiliate obtain eligibility information about a consumer in connection with a transaction with the consumer, such as an isolated transaction or a credit application that is denied, an opt-out notice provided to the consumer only applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with that transaction.
(ii)
Examples of isolated transactions.
An isolated transaction occurs if—
(A) The consumer uses your or your affiliate's ATM to withdraw cash from an account at a financial institution; or
(B) You or your affiliate sells the consumer a money order, airline tickets, travel insurance, or traveler's checks in isolated transactions.
(4)
Menu of alternatives.
A consumer may be given the opportunity to choose from a menu of alternatives when electing to prohibit solicitations, such as by electing to prohibit solicitations from certain types of affiliates covered by the opt-out notice but not other types of affiliates covered by the notice, electing to prohibit solicitations based on certain types of eligibility information but not other types of eligibility information, or electing to prohibit solicitations by certain methods of delivery but not other methods of delivery. However, one of the alternatives must allow the consumer to prohibit all solicitations from all of the affiliates that are covered by the notice.
(5)
Special rule for a notice following termination of all continuing relationships
—(i)
In general.
A consumer must be given a new opt-out notice if, after all continuing relationships with you or your affiliate(s) are terminated, the consumer subsequently establishes another continuing relationship with you or your affiliate(s) and the consumer's eligibility information is to be used to make a solicitation. The new opt-out notice must apply, at a minimum, to eligibility information obtained in connection with the new continuing relationship. Consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, the consumer's decision not to opt out after receiving the new opt-out notice would not override a prior opt-out election by the consumer that applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with a terminated relationship, regardless of whether the new opt-out notice applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with the terminated relationship.
(ii)
Example.
A consumer has an automobile loan account with a creditor that is part of an affiliated group. The consumer pays off the loan. After paying off the loan, the consumer subsequently obtains a second mortgage loan from the creditor. The consumer must be given a new notice and opportunity to opt out before the creditor's affiliates may make solicitations to the consumer using eligibility information obtained by the creditor in connection with the new mortgage relationship, regardless of whether the consumer opted out in connection with the automobile loan account.
(b)
Duration of opt-out.
The election of a consumer to opt out must be effective for a period of at least five years (the “opt-out period”) beginning when the consumer's opt-out election is received and implemented, unless the consumer subsequently revokes the opt-out in writing or, if the consumer agrees, electronically. An opt-out period of more than five years may be established, including an opt-out period that does not expire unless revoked by the consumer.
(c)
Time of opt-out.
A consumer may opt out at any time.
§ 680.23
Contents of opt-out notice; consolidated and equivalent notices.
(a)
Contents of opt-out notice
—(1)
In general.
A notice must be clear, conspicuous, and concise, and must accurately disclose:
(i) The name of the affiliate(s) providing the notice. If the notice is provided jointly by multiple affiliates and each affiliate shares a common name, such as “ABC,” then the notice may indicate that it is being provided by multiple companies with the ABC name or multiple companies in the ABC group or family of companies, for example, by stating that the notice is
provided by “all of the ABC companies,” “the ABC banking, credit card, insurance, and securities companies,” or by listing the name of each affiliate providing the notice. But if the affiliates providing the joint notice do not all share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC and XYZ companies” or by “the ABC banking and credit card companies and the XYZ insurance companies;”
(ii) A list of the affiliates or types of affiliates whose use of eligibility information is covered by the notice, which may include companies that become affiliates after the notice is provided to the consumer. If each affiliate covered by the notice shares a common name, such as “ABC,” then the notice may indicate that it applies to multiple companies with the ABC name or multiple companies in the ABC group or family of companies, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC companies,” “the ABC banking, credit card, insurance, and securities companies,” or by listing the name of each affiliate providing the notice. But if the affiliates covered by the notice do not all share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each covered affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates, for example, by stating that the notice applies to “all of the ABC and XYZ companies” or to “the ABC banking and credit card companies and the XYZ insurance companies;”
(iii) A general description of the types of eligibility information that may be used to make solicitations to the consumer;
(iv) That the consumer may elect to limit the use of eligibility information to make solicitations to the consumer;
(v) That the consumer's election will apply for the specified period of time stated in the notice and, if applicable, that the consumer will be allowed to renew the election once that period expires;
(vi) If the notice is provided to consumers who may have previously opted out, such as if a notice is provided to consumers annually, that the consumer who has chosen to limit solicitations does not need to act again until the consumer receives a renewal notice; and
(vii) A reasonable and simple method for the consumer to opt out.
(2)
Joint relationships.
(i) If two or more consumers jointly obtain a product or service, a single opt-out notice may be provided to the joint consumers. Any of the joint consumers may exercise the right to opt out.
(ii) The opt-out notice must explain how an opt-out direction by a joint consumer will be treated. An opt-out direction by a joint consumer may be treated as applying to all of the associated joint consumers, or each joint consumer may be permitted to opt out separately. If each joint consumer is permitted to opt out separately, one of the joint consumers must be permitted to opt out on behalf of all of the joint consumers and the joint consumers must be permitted to exercise their separate rights to opt out in a single response.
(iii) It is impermissible to require all joint consumers to opt out before implementing any opt-out direction.
(3)
Alternative contents.
If the consumer is afforded a broader right to opt out of receiving marketing than is required by this part, the requirements of this section may be satisfied by providing the consumer with a clear, conspicuous, and concise notice that accurately discloses the consumer's opt-out rights.
(4)
Model notices.
Model notices are provided in appendix B of part 698 of this chapter.
(b)
Coordinated and consolidated notices.
A notice required by this part may be coordinated and consolidated with any other notice or disclosure required to be issued under any other provision of law by the entity providing the notice, including but not limited to the notice de-scribed in section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act privacy notice.
(c)
Equivalent notices.
A notice or other disclosure that is equivalent to the notice required by this part, and
that is provided to a consumer together with disclosures required by any other provision of law, satisfies the requirements of this section.
[72 FR 61455, Oct. 30, 2007, as amended at 84 FR 23473, May 22, 2019]
§ 680.24
Reasonable opportunity to opt out.
(a)
In general.
You must not use eligibility information about a consumer that you receive from an affiliate to make a solicitation to the consumer about your products or services, unless the consumer is provided a reasonable opportunity to opt out, as required by
§ 680.21(a)(1)(ii) of this part.
(b)
Examples of a reasonable opportunity to opt out.
The consumer is given a reasonable opportunity to opt out if:
(1)
By mail.
The opt-out notice is mailed to the consumer. The consumer is given 30 days from the date the notice is mailed to elect to opt out by any reasonable means.
(2)
By electronic means.
(i) The opt-out notice is provided electronically to the consumer, such as by posting the notice at an Internet Web site at which the consumer has obtained a product or service. The consumer acknowledges receipt of the electronic notice. The consumer is given 30 days after the date the consumer acknowledges receipt to elect to opt out by any reasonable means.
(ii) The opt-out notice is provided to the consumer by e-mail where the consumer has agreed to receive disclosures by e-mail from the person sending the notice. The consumer is given 30 days after the e-mail is sent to elect to opt out by any reasonable means.
(3)
At the time of an electronic transaction.
The opt-out notice is provided to the consumer at the time of an electronic transaction, such as a transaction conducted on an Internet Web site. The consumer is required to decide, as a necessary part of proceeding with the transaction, whether to opt out before completing the transaction. There is a simple process that the consumer may use to opt out at that time using the same mechanism through which the transaction is conducted.
(4)
At the time of an in-person transaction.
The opt-out notice is provided to the consumer in writing at the time of an in-person transaction. The consumer is required to decide, as a necessary part of proceeding with the transaction, whether to opt out before completing the transaction, and is not permitted to complete the transaction without making a choice. There is a simple process that the consumer may use during the course of the in-person transaction to opt out, such as completing a form that requires consumers to write a “yes” or “no” to indicate their opt-out preference or that requires the consumer to check one of two blank check boxes—one that allows consumers to indicate that they want to opt out and one that allows consumers to indicate that they do not want to opt out.
(5)
By including in a privacy notice.
The opt-out notice is included in a Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act privacy notice. The consumer is allowed to exercise the opt-out within a reasonable period of time and in the same manner as the opt-out under that privacy notice.
§ 680.25
Reasonable and simple methods of opting out.
(a)
In general.
You must not use eligibility information about a consumer that you receive from an affiliate to make a solicitation to the consumer about your products or services, unless the consumer is provided a reasonable and simple method to opt out, as required by § 680.21(a)(1)(ii) of this part.
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Reasonable and simple opt-out methods.
Reasonable and simple methods for exercising the opt-out right include—
(i) Designating a check-off box in a prominent position on the opt-out form;
(ii) Including a reply form and a self-addressed envelope together with the opt-out notice;
(iii) Providing an electronic means to opt out, such as a form that can be electronically mailed or processed at an Internet Web site, if the consumer agrees to the electronic delivery of information;
(iv) Providing a toll-free telephone number that consumers may call to opt out; or
(v) Allowing consumers to exercise all of their opt-out rights described in
a consolidated opt-out notice that includes the privacy opt-out under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, 15 U.S.C. 6801
et seq.,
the affiliate sharing opt-out under the Act, and the affiliate marketing opt-out under the Act, by a single method, such as by calling a single toll-free telephone number.
(2)
Opt-out methods that are not reasonable and simple.
Reasonable and simple methods for exercising an opt-out right
do not
include—
(i) Requiring the consumer to write his or her own letter;
(ii) Requiring the consumer to call or write to obtain a form for opting out, rather than including the form with the opt-out notice;
(iii) Requiring the consumer who receives the opt-out notice in electronic form only, such as through posting at an Internet Web site, to opt out solely by paper mail or by visiting a different Web site without providing a link to that site.
(c)
Specific opt-out means.
Each consumer may be required to opt out through a specific means, as long as that means is reasonable and simple for that consumer.
§ 680.26
Delivery of opt-out notices.
(a)
In general.
The opt-out notice must be provided so that each consumer can reasonably be expected to receive actual notice. For opt-out notices provided electronically, the notice may be provided in compliance with either the electronic disclosure provisions in this part or the provisions in section 101 of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
(b)
Examples of reasonable expectation of actual notice.
A consumer may reasonably be expected to receive actual notice if the affiliate providing the notice:
(1) Hand-delivers a printed copy of the notice to the consumer;
(2) Mails a printed copy of the notice to the last known mailing address of the consumer;
(3) Provides a notice by e-mail to a consumer who has agreed to receive electronic disclosures by e-mail from the affiliate providing the notice; or
(4) Posts the notice on the Internet Web site at which the consumer obtained a product or service electronically and requires the consumer to acknowledge receipt of the notice.
(c)
Examples of no reasonable expectation of actual notice.
A consumer may
not
reasonably be expected to receive actual notice if the affiliate providing the notice:
(1) Only posts the notice on a sign in a branch or office or generally publishes the notice in a newspaper;
(2) Sends the notice via e-mail to a consumer who has not agreed to receive electronic disclosures by e-mail from the affiliate providing the notice; or
(3) Posts the notice on an Internet Web site without requiring the consumer to acknowledge receipt of the notice.
§ 680.27
Renewal of opt-out.
(a)
Renewal notice and opt-out requirement
—(1)
In general.
After the opt-out period expires, you may not make solicitations based on eligibility information you receive from an affiliate to a consumer who previously opted out, unless:
(i) The consumer has been given a renewal notice that complies with the requirements of this section and §§ 680.24 through 680.26 of this part, and a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to renew the opt-out, and the consumer does not renew the opt-out; or
(ii) An exception in § 680.21(c) of this part applies.
(2)
Renewal period.
Each opt-out renewal must be effective for a period of at least five years as provided in § 680.22(b) of this part.
(3)
Affiliates who may provide the notice.
The notice required by this paragraph must be provided:
(i) By the affiliate that provided the previous opt-out notice, or its successor; or
(ii) As part of a joint renewal notice from two or more members of an affiliated group of companies, or their successors, that jointly provided the previous opt-out notice.
(b)
Contents of renewal notice.
The renewal notice must be clear, conspicuous, and concise, and must accurately disclose:
(1) The name of the affiliate(s) providing the notice. If the notice is provided jointly by multiple affiliates and each affiliate shares a common name, such as “ABC,” then the notice may indicate that it is being provided by multiple companies with the ABC name or multiple companies in the ABC group or family of companies, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC companies,” “the ABC banking, credit card, insurance, and securities companies,” or by listing the name of each affiliate providing the notice. But if the affiliates providing the joint notice do not all share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC and XYZ companies” or by “the ABC banking and credit card companies and the XYZ insurance companies;”
(2) A list of the affiliates or types of affiliates whose use of eligibility information is covered by the notice, which may include companies that become affiliates after the notice is provided to the consumer. If each affiliate covered by the notice shares a common name, such as “ABC,” then the notice may indicate that it applies to multiple companies with the ABC name or multiple companies in the ABC group or family of companies, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC companies,” “the ABC banking, credit card, insurance, and securities companies,” or by listing the name of each affiliate providing the notice. But if the affiliates covered by the notice do not all share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each covered affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates, for example, by stating that the notice applies to “all of the ABC and XYZ companies” or to “the ABC banking and credit card companies and the XYZ insurance companies;”
(3) A general description of the types of eligibility information that may be used to make solicitations to the consumer;
(4) That the consumer previously elected to limit the use of certain information to make solicitations to the consumer;
(5) That the consumer's election has expired or is about to expire;
(6) That the consumer may elect to renew the consumer's previous election;
(7) If applicable, that the consumer's election to renew will apply for the specified period of time stated in the notice and that the consumer will be allowed to renew the election once that period expires; and
(8) A reasonable and simple method for the consumer to opt out.
(c)
Timing of the renewal notice
—(1)
In general.
A renewal notice may be provided to the consumer either—
(i) A reasonable period of time before the expiration of the opt-out period; or
(ii) Any time after the expiration of the opt-out period but before solicitations that would have been prohibited by the expired opt-out are made to the consumer.
(2)
Combination with annual privacy notice.
If you provide an annual privacy notice under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, 15 U.S.C. 6801
et seq.,
providing a renewal notice with the last annual privacy notice provided to the consumer before expiration of the opt-out period is a reasonable period of time before expiration of the opt-out in all cases.
(d)
No effect on opt-out period.
An opt-out period may not be shortened by sending a renewal notice to the consumer before expiration of the opt-out period, even if the consumer does not renew the opt out.
§ 680.28
Effective date, compliance date, and prospective application.
(a)
Effective date.
This part is effective January 1, 2008.
(b)
Mandatory compliance date.
Compliance with this part is required not later than October 1, 2008.
(c)
Prospective application.
The provisions of this part shall not prohibit you from using eligibility information that you receive from an affiliate to make solicitations to a consumer if you receive such information prior to October 1, 2008. For purposes of this section, you are deemed to receive eligibility
information when such information is placed into a common database and is accessible by you.
Pt. 681

# PART 681—IDENTITY THEFT RULES
Sec.
681.1
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
681.2
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
Appendix A to Part 681—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1681m(e); 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4); 15 U.S.C. 1681c(h).

# Source:
72 FR 63771, Nov. 9, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 681.1
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to financial institutions and creditors that are subject to administrative enforcement of the FCRA by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1681s(a)(1).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, and Appendix A, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Account
means a continuing relationship established by a person with a financial institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family, household or business purposes. Account includes:
(i) An extension of credit, such as the purchase of property or services involving a deferred payment; and
(ii) A deposit account.
(2) The term
board of directors
includes:
(i) In the case of a branch or agency of a foreign bank, the managing official in charge of the branch or agency; and
(ii) In the case of any other creditor that does not have a board of directors, a designated employee at the level of senior management.
(3)
Covered account
means:
(i) An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
(ii) Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.
(4)
Credit
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(5)
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4).
(6)
Customer
means a person that has a covered account with a financial institution or creditor.
(7)
Financial institution
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t).
(8)
Identity theft
has the same meaning as in 16 CFR 603.2(a).
(9)
Red Flag
means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.
(10)
Service provider
means a person that provides a service directly to the financial institution or creditor.
(c)
Periodic Identification of Covered Accounts.
Each financial institution or creditor must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. As a part of this determination, a financial institution or creditor must conduct a risk assessment to determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, taking into consideration:
(1) The methods it provides to open its accounts;
(2) The methods it provides to access its accounts; and
(3) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(d)
Establishment of an Identity Theft Prevention Program
—(1)
Program requirement.
Each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts must develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program (Program) that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. The Program must be appropriate to the
size and complexity of the financial institution or creditor and the nature and scope of its activities.
(2)
Elements of the Program.
The Program must include reasonable policies and procedures to:
(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the covered accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, and incorporate those Red Flags into its Program;
(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Program of the financial institution or creditor;
(iii) Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
(iv) Ensure the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) is updated periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.
(e)
Administration of the Program.
Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement a Program must provide for the continued administration of the Program and must:
(1) Obtain approval of the initial written Program from either its board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of directors;
(2) Involve the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated employee at the level of senior management in the oversight, development, implementation and administration of the Program;
(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement the Program; and
(4) Exercise appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements.
(f)
Guidelines.
Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement a Program must consider the guidelines in appendix A of this part and include in its Program those guidelines that are appropriate.
[74 FR 22645, May 14, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 72715, Dec. 6, 2012]
§ 681.2
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to a person described in § 681.1(a) that issues a debit or credit card (card issuer).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Cardholder
means a consumer who has been issued a credit or debit card.
(2)
Clear and conspicuous
means reasonably understandable and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information presented.
(c)
Address validation requirements.
A card issuer must establish and implement reasonable policies and procedures to assess the validity of a change of address if it receives notification of a change of address for a consumer's debit or credit card account and, within a short period of time afterwards (during at least the first 30 days after it receives such notification), the card issuer receives a request for an additional or replacement card for the same account. Under these circumstances, the card issuer may not issue an additional or replacement card, until, in accordance with its reasonable policies and procedures and for the purpose of assessing the validity of the change of address, the card issuer:
(1)(i) Notifies the cardholder of the request:
(A) At the cardholder's former address; or
(B) By any other means of communication that the card issuer and the cardholder have previously agreed to use; and
(ii) Provides to the cardholder a reasonable means of promptly reporting incorrect address changes; or
(2) Otherwise assesses the validity of the change of address in accordance with the policies and procedures the card issuer has established pursuant to § 681.1 of this part.
(d)
Alternative timing of address validation.
A card issuer may satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section if it validates an address pursuant to the methods in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section when it receives an address change notification, before it receives a request for an additional or replacement card.
(e)
Form of notice.
Any written or electronic notice that the card issuer
provides under this paragraph must be clear and conspicuous and provided separately from its regular correspondence with the cardholder.
[74 FR 22645, May 14, 2009]
Pt. 681, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 681—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation
Section 681.1 of this part requires each financial institution and creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts, as defined in § 681.1(b)(3) of this part, to develop and provide for the continued administration of a written Program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. These guidelines are intended to assist financial institutions and creditors in the formulation and maintenance of a Program that satisfies the requirements of § 681.1 of this part.

# I. The Program
In designing its Program, a financial institution or creditor may incorporate, as appropriate, its existing policies, procedures, and other arrangements that control reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.

# II. Identifying Relevant Red Flags
(a)
Risk Factors.
A financial institution or creditor should consider the following factors in identifying relevant Red Flags for covered accounts, as appropriate:
(1) The types of covered accounts it offers or maintains;
(2) The methods it provides to open its covered accounts;
(3) The methods it provides to access its covered accounts; and
(4) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(b)
Sources of Red Flags.
Financial institutions and creditors should incorporate relevant Red Flags from sources such as:
(1) Incidents of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has experienced;
(2) Methods of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has identified that reflect changes in identity theft risks; and
(3) Applicable supervisory guidance.
(c)
Categories of Red Flags.
The Program should include relevant Red Flags from the following categories, as appropriate. Examples of Red Flags from each of these categories are appended as supplement A to this appendix A.
(1) Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies or service providers, such as fraud detection services;
(2) The presentation of suspicious documents;
(3) The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious address change;
(4) The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account; and
(5) Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the financial institution or creditor.

# III. Detecting Red Flags
The Program's policies and procedures should address the detection of Red Flags in connection with the opening of covered accounts and existing covered accounts, such as by:
(a) Obtaining identifying information about, and verifying the identity of, a person opening a covered account, for example, using the policies and procedures regarding identification and verification set forth in the Customer Identification Program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) (31 CFR 103.121); and
(b) Authenticating customers, monitoring transactions, and verifying the validity of change of address requests, in the case of existing covered accounts.

# IV. Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
The Program's policies and procedures should provide for appropriate responses to the Red Flags the financial institution or creditor has detected that are commensurate with the degree of risk posed. In determining an appropriate response, a financial institution or creditor should consider aggravating factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer's account records held by the financial institution, creditor, or third party, or notice that a customer has provided information related to a covered account held by the financial institution or creditor to someone fraudulently claiming to represent the financial institution or creditor or to a fraudulent website. Appropriate responses may include the following:
(a) Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
(b) Contacting the customer;
(c) Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that permit access to a covered account;
(d) Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
(e) Not opening a new covered account;
(f) Closing an existing covered account;
(g) Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered account to a debt collector;
(h) Notifying law enforcement; or
(i) Determining that no response is warranted under the particular circumstances.

# V. Updating the Program
Financial institutions and creditors should update the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, based on factors such as:
(a) The experiences of the financial institution or creditor with identity theft;
(b) Changes in methods of identity theft;
(c) Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
(d) Changes in the types of accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains; and
(e) Changes in the business arrangements of the financial institution or creditor, including mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.

# VI. Methods for Administering the Program
(a)
Oversight of Program.
Oversight by the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management should include:
(1) Assigning specific responsibility for the Program's implementation;
(2) Reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 681.1 of this part; and
(3) Approving material changes to the Program as necessary to address changing identity theft risks.
(b)
Reports.
(1)
In general.
Staff of the financial institution or creditor responsible for development, implementation, and administration of its Program should report to the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management, at least annually, on compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 681.1 of this part.
(2)
Contents of report.
The report should address material matters related to the Program and evaluate issues such as: The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the financial institution or creditor in addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts; service provider arrangements; significant incidents involving identity theft and management's response; and recommendations for material changes to the Program.
(c)
Oversight of service provider arrangements.
Whenever a financial institution or creditor engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the financial institution or creditor should take steps to ensure that the activity of the service provider is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. For example, a financial institution or creditor could require the service provider by contract to have policies and procedures to detect relevant Red Flags that may arise in the performance of the service provider's activities, and either report the Red Flags to the financial institution or creditor, or to take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.

# VII. Other Applicable Legal Requirements
Financial institutions and creditors should be mindful of other related legal requirements that may be applicable, such as:
(a) For financial institutions and creditors that are subject to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), filing a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation;
(b) Implementing any requirements under 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(h) regarding the circumstances under which credit may be extended when the financial institution or creditor detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c) Implementing any requirements for furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2, for example, to correct or update inaccurate or incomplete information, and to not report information that the furnisher has reasonable cause to believe is inaccurate; and
(d) Complying with the prohibitions in 15 U.S.C. 1681m on the sale, transfer, and placement for collection of certain debts resulting from identity theft.

# Supplement A to Appendix A
In addition to incorporating Red Flags from the sources recommended in section II.b. of the Guidelines in appendix A of this part, each financial institution or creditor may consider incorporating into its Program, whether singly or in combination, Red Flags from the following illustrative examples in connection with covered accounts:

# Alerts, Notifications or Warnings from a Consumer Reporting Agency
1. A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report.
2. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer report.
3. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy, as defined in § 641.1(b) of this part.
4. A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
a. A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to recently established credit relationships; or
d. An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.

# Suspicious Documents
5. Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or forged.
6. The photograph or physical description on the identification is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the identification.
7. Other information on the identification is not consistent with information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer presenting the identification.
8. Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check.
9. An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.

# Suspicious Personal Identifying Information
10. Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when compared against external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File.
11. Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of birth.
12. Personal identifying information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is the same as the address provided on a fraudulent application; or
b. The phone number on an application is the same as the number provided on a fraudulent application.
13. Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison; or
b. The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or answering service.
14. The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons opening an account or other customers.
15. The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of other persons opening accounts or by other customers.
16. The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in response to notification that the application is incomplete.
17. Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with personal identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor.
18. For financial institutions and creditors that use challenge questions, the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer report.

# Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related to, the Covered Account
19. Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered account, the institution or creditor receives a request for a new, additional, or replacement card or a cell phone, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
20. A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly associated with known patterns of fraud. For example:
a. The majority of available credit is used for cash advances or merchandise that is easily convertible to cash (e.g., electronics equipment or jewelry); or
b. The customer fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
21. A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
a. Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
b. A material increase in the use of available credit;
c. A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;
d. A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in connection with a deposit account; or
e. A material change in telephone call patterns in connection with a cellular phone account.
22. A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
23. Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the customer's covered account.
24. The financial institution or creditor is notified that the customer is not receiving paper account statements.
25. The financial institution or creditor is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in connection with a customer's covered account.

# Notice from Customers, Victims of Identity Theft, Law Enforcement Authorities, or Other Persons Regarding Possible Identity Theft in Connection With Covered Accounts Held by the Financial Institution or Creditor
26. The financial institution or creditor is notified by a customer, a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
[72 FR 63771, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 22646, May 14, 2009]
Pt. 682

# PART 682—DISPOSAL OF CONSUMER REPORT INFORMATION AND RECORDS
Sec.
682.1
Definitions.
682.2
Purpose and scope.
682.3
Proper disposal of consumer information.
682.4
Relation to other laws.
682.5
Effective date.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 108-159, sec. 216.

# Source:
69 FR 68697, Nov. 24, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 682.1
Definitions.
(a)
In general.
Except as modified by this part or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in this part have the same meaning as set forth in the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
(b) “
Consumer information
” means any record about an individual, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is a consumer report or is derived from a consumer report. Consumer information also means a compilation of such records. Consumer information does not include information that does not identify individuals, such as aggregate information or blind data.
(c) “
Dispose,
” “
disposing,
” or “
disposal
” means:
(1) The discarding or abandonment of consumer information, or
(2) The sale, donation, or transfer of any medium, including computer equipment, upon which consumer information is stored.
§ 682.2
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part (“rule”) implements section 216 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, which is designed to reduce the risk of consumer fraud and related harms, including identity theft, created by improper disposal of consumer information.
(b)
Scope.
This rule applies to any person over which the Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction, that, for a business purpose, maintains or otherwise possesses consumer information.
§ 682.3
Proper disposal of consumer information.
(a)
Standard.
Any person who maintains or otherwise possesses consumer information for a business purpose must properly dispose of such information by taking reasonable measures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of the information in connection with its disposal.
(b)
Examples.
Reasonable measures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of consumer information in connection with its disposal include the following examples. These examples are illustrative only and are not exclusive or exhaustive methods for complying with the rule in this part.
(1) Implementing and monitoring compliance with policies and procedures that require the burning, pulverizing, or shredding of papers containing consumer information so that the information cannot practicably be read or reconstructed.
(2) Implementing and monitoring compliance with policies and procedures that require the destruction or erasure of electronic media containing consumer information so that the information cannot practicably be read or reconstructed.
(3) After due diligence, entering into and monitoring compliance with a contract with another party engaged in the business of record destruction to
dispose of material, specifically identified as consumer information, in a manner consistent with this rule. In this context, due diligence could include reviewing an independent audit of the disposal company's operations and/or its compliance with this rule, obtaining information about the disposal company from several references or other reliable sources, requiring that the disposal company be certified by a recognized trade association or similar third party, reviewing and evaluating the disposal company's information security policies or procedures, or taking other appropriate measures to determine the competency and integrity of the potential disposal company.
(4) For persons or entities who maintain or otherwise possess consumer information through their provision of services directly to a person subject to this part, implementing and monitoring compliance with policies and procedures that protect against unauthorized or unintentional disposal of consumer information, and disposing of such information in accordance with examples (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(5) For persons subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, 15 U.S.C. 6081
et seq.,
and the Federal Trade Commission's Standards for Safeguarding Customer Information, 16 CFR part 314 (“Safeguards Rule”), incorporating the proper disposal of consumer information as required by this rule into the information security program required by the Safeguards Rule.
§ 682.4
Relation to other laws.
Nothing in the rule in this part shall be construed:
(a) To require a person to maintain or destroy any record pertaining to a consumer that is not imposed under other law; or
(b) To alter or affect any requirement imposed under any other provision of law to maintain or destroy such a record.
§ 682.5
Effective date.
The rule in this part is effective on June 1, 2005.
Pt. 698

# PART 698—MODEL FORMS AND DISCLOSURES
Sec.
698.1
Authority and purpose.
698.2
Legal effect.
698.3
Definitions.
Appendix A to Part 698—Model Forms for Risk-Based Pricing and Credit Score Disclosure Exception Notices
Appendix B to Part 698—Model Forms for Affiliate Marketing Opt-Out Notices
Appendix C to Part 698—Model Prescreen Opt-Out Notices

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5519; 15 U.S.C. 1681m(h); 15 U.S.C. 1681s-3; 15 U.S.C. 1681s-3 note.

# Source:
69 FR 35500, June 24, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 698.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
), as amended by the Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of 1996 (Title II, Subtitle D, Chapter 1, of the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1997), Public Law 104-208, 110 Stat. 3009-426 (Sept. 30, 1996), the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, Public Law 108-159, 117 Stat. 1952 (Dec. 4, 2003), and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376-2223 (July 21, 2010).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to comply with sections 615(h) and 624 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, and section 214(b) of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003.
[84 FR 23473, May 22, 2019]
§ 698.2
Legal effect.
The model forms and disclosures prescribed by the FTC in this part do not constitute a trade regulation rule. The issuance of the model forms and disclosures set forth in appendices A, B, and C of this part carry out the directive in the statute that the FTC prescribe these forms and disclosures. Use or distribution of the model forms and disclosures in this part will constitute compliance with any section or subsection of the FCRA requiring that
such forms and disclosures be used by any motor vehicle dealer subject to the FTC's rulemaking authority.
[86 FR 50850, Sept. 13, 2021]
§ 698.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, unless otherwise provided:
(a)
Substantially similar
means that all information in the Commission's prescribed model is included in the document that is distributed, and that the document distributed is formatted in a way consistent with the format prescribed by the Commission. The document that is distributed shall not include anything that interferes with, detracts from, or otherwise undermines the information contained in the Commission's prescribed model.
[69 FR 69784, Nov. 30, 2004]
Pt. 698, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 698—Model Forms for Risk-Based Pricing and Credit Score Disclosure Exception Notices
1. This appendix contains four model forms for risk-based pricing notices and three model forms for use in connection with the credit score disclosure exceptions. Each of the model forms is designated for use in a particular set of circumstances as indicated by the title of that model form.
2. Model form A-1 is for use in complying with the general risk-based pricing notice requirements in § 640.3 if a credit score is not used in setting the material terms of credit. Model form A-2 is for risk-based pricing notices given in connection with account review if a credit score is not used in increasing the annual percentage rate. Model form A-3 is for use in connection with the credit score disclosure exception for loans secured by residential real property. Model form A-4 is for use in connection with the credit score disclosure exception for loans not secured by residential real property. Model form A-5 is for use in connection with the credit score disclosure exception when no credit score is available for a consumer. Model form A-6 is for use in complying with the general risk-based pricing notice requirements in § 640.3 if a credit score is used in setting the material terms of credit. Model form A-7 is for risk-based pricing notices given in connection with account review if a credit score is used in increasing the annual percentage rate. All forms contained in this appendix are models; their use is optional.
3. A person may change the forms by rearranging the format or by making technical modifications to the language of the forms, in each case without modifying the substance of the disclosures. Any such rearrangement or modification of the language of the model forms may not be so extensive as to materially affect the substance, clarity, comprehensibility, or meaningful sequence of the forms. Persons making revisions with that effect will lose the benefit of the safe harbor for appropriate use of the model forms in this appendix. A person is not required to conduct consumer testing when rearranging the format of the model forms.
a. Acceptable changes include, for example:
i. Corrections or updates to telephone numbers, mailing addresses, or website addresses that may change over time.
ii. The addition of graphics or icons, such as the person's corporate logo.
iii. Alteration of the shading or color contained in the model forms.
iv. Use of a different form of graphical presentation to depict the distribution of credit scores.
v. Substitution of the words “credit” and “creditor” or “finance” and “finance company” for the terms “loan” and “lender.”
vi. Including pre-printed lists of the sources of consumer reports or consumer reporting agencies in a “check-the-box” format.
vii. Including the name of the consumer, transaction identification numbers, a date, and other information that will assist in identifying the transaction to which the form pertains.
viii. Including the name of an agent, such as an motor vehicle dealer or other party, when providing the “Name of the Entity Providing the Notice.”
b. Unacceptable changes include, for example:
i. Providing model forms on register receipts or interspersed with other disclosures.
ii. Eliminating empty lines and extra spaces between sentences within the same section.
4. Optional language in model forms A-6 and A-7 may be used to direct the consumer to the entity (which may be a consumer reporting agency or the creditor itself, for a proprietary score that meets the definition of a credit score) that provided the credit score for any questions about the credit
score, along with the entity's contact information. Creditors may use or not use the additional language without losing the safe harbor, since the language is optional.
A-1 Model form for risk-based pricing notice.
A-2 Model form for account review risk-based pricing notice.
A-3 Model form for credit score disclosure exception for loans secured by one to four units of residential real property.
A-4 Model form for credit score disclosure exception for loans not secured by residential real property.
A-5 Model form for credit score disclosure exception for loans where credit score is not available.
A-6 Model form for risk-based pricing notice with credit score information.
A-7 Model form for account review risk-based pricing notice with credit score information.
ER17SE21.001
ER17SE21.002
ER17SE21.003
ER17SE21.004
ER17SE21.005
ER17SE21.006
ER17SE21.007
ER17SE21.008
ER17SE21.009
ER17SE21.010
ER17SE21.011
[86 FR 51805, Sept. 17, 2021]
Pt. 698, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 698—Model Forms for Affiliate Marketing Opt-Out Notices
A. Although use of the model forms is not required, use of the model forms in this Appendix (as applicable) complies with the requirement in section 624 of the Act for clear, conspicuous, and concise notices.
B. Certain changes may be made to the language or format of the model forms without losing the protection from liability afforded by use of the model forms. These changes may not be so extensive as to affect the substance, clarity, or meaningful sequence of the language in the model forms. Persons making such extensive revisions will lose the safe harbor that this Appendix provides. Acceptable changes include, for example:
1. Rearranging the order of the references to “your income,” “your account history,” and “your credit score.”
2. Substituting other types of information for “income,” “account history,” or “credit score” for accuracy, such as “payment history,” “credit history,” “payoff status,” or “claims history.”
3. Substituting a clearer and more accurate description of the affiliates providing or covered by the notice for phrases such as “the [ABC] group of companies,” including without limitation a statement that the entity providing the notice recently purchased the consumer's account.
4. Substituting other types of affiliates covered by the notice for “credit card,” “insurance,” or “securities” affiliates.
5. Omitting items that are not accurate or applicable. For example, if a person does not limit the duration of the opt-out period, the notice may omit information about the renewal notice.
6. Adding a statement informing consumers how much time they have to opt out before shared eligibility information may be used to make solicitations to them.
7. Adding a statement that the consumer may exercise the right to opt out at any time.
8. Adding the following statement, if accurate: “If you previously opted out, you do not need to do so again.”
9. Providing a place on the form for the consumer to fill in identifying information, such as his or her name and address.
B-1 Model Form for Initial Opt-out notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)
B-2 Model Form for Initial Opt-out notice (Joint Notice)
B-3 Model Form for Renewal Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)
B-4 Model Form for Renewal Notice (Joint Notice)
B-5 Model Form for Voluntary “No Marketing” Notice

# B-1 Model Form for Initial Opt-Out Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)

# [Your Choice To Limit Marketing]/[Marketing Opt-Out]
• [Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
• [Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from our affiliates. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from our affiliates.]
• You may limit our affiliates in the [ABC] group of companies, such as our [credit card, insurance, and securities] affiliates, from marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that we collect and share with them. This information includes your [income], your [account history with us], and your [credit score].
• Your choice to limit marketing offers from our affiliates will apply [until you tell us to change your choice]/[for x years from when you tell us your choice]/[for at least 5 years from when you tell us your choice]. [Include if the opt-out period expires.] Once that period expires, you will receive a renewal notice that will allow you to continue to limit marketing offers from our affiliates for [another x years]/[at least another 5 years].
• [Include, if applicable, in a subsequent notice, including an annual notice, for consumers who may have previously opted out.] If you have already made a choice to limit marketing offers from our affiliates, you do not need to act again until you receive the renewal notice.
To limit marketing offers, contact us
[include all that apply]:
•
By telephone:
1-877-###-####
•
On the web:
www.—.com
•
By mail:
Check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
____Do not allow your affiliates to use my personal information to market to me.

# B-2 Model Form for Initial Opt-Out Notice (Joint Notice)

# [Your Choice To Limit Marketing]/[Marketing Opt-Out]
• The [ABC group of companies] is providing this notice.
• [Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from the [ABC] companies. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from the [ABC] companies.]
• You may limit the [ABC companies], such as the [ABC credit card, insurance, and securities] affiliates, from marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that they receive from other [ABC] companies. This information includes your [income], your [account history], and your [credit score].
• Your choice to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies will apply [until you tell us to change your choice]/[for x years from when you tell us your choice]/[for at least 5 years from when you tell us your choice]. [Include if the opt-out period expires.] Once that period expires, you will receive a renewal notice that will allow you to continue to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies for [another x years]/[at least another 5 years].
• [Include, if applicable, in a subsequent notice, including an annual notice, for consumers who may have previously opted out.] If you have already made a choice to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies, you do not need to act again until you receive the renewal notice.
To limit marketing offers, contact us
[include all that apply]:
•
By telephone:
1-877-###-####
•
On the web:
www.—.com
•
By mail:
Check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
____Do not allow any company [in the ABC group of companies] to use my personal information to market to me.

# B-3 Model Form for Renewal Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)

# [Renewing Your Choice To Limit Marketing]/[Renewing Your Marketing Opt-Out]
• [Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
• [Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from our affiliates. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from our affiliates.]
• You previously chose to limit our affiliates in the [ABC] group of companies, such
as our [credit card, insurance, and securities] affiliates, from marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that we share with them. This information includes your [income], your [account history with us], and your [credit score].
• Your choice has expired or is about to expire.
To renew your choice to limit marketing for [x] more years, contact us
[include all that apply]:
•
By telephone:
1-877-###-####
•
On the web:
www.—.com
•
By mail:
Check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
____Renew my choice to limit marketing for [x] more years.

# B-4 Model Form for Renewal Notice (Joint Notice)

# [Renewing Your Choice To Limit Marketing]/[Renewing Your Marketing Opt-Out]
• The [ABC group of companies] is providing this notice.
• [Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from the [ABC] companies. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from the [ABC] companies.]
• You previously chose to limit the [ABC companies], such as the [ABC credit card, insurance, and securities] affiliates, from marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that they receive from other [ABC] companies. This information includes your [income], your [account history], and your [credit score].
• Your choice has expired or is about to expire.
To renew your choice to limit marketing for [x] more years, contact us
[include all that apply]:
•
By telephone:
1-877-###-####
•
On the web:
www.—.com
•
By mail:
Check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
____Renew my choice to limit marketing for [x] more years.

# B-5 Model Form for Voluntary “No Marketing” Notice
Your Choice To Stop Marketing
• [Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
• You may choose to stop all marketing from us and our affiliates.
• [Your choice to stop marketing from us and our all affiliates will apply until you tell us to change your choice.]
To stop all marketing offers, contact us
[include all that apply]:
•
By telephone:
1-877-###-####
•
On the web:
www.—.com
•
By mail:
check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
____Do not market to me.
[84 FR 23485, May 22, 2019]
Pt. 698, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 698—Model Prescreen Opt-Out Notices
In order to comply with 16 CFR part 642, the following model notices may be used:
(a)
English language model notice
—(1)
Short notice.
ER13SE21.001
(2)
Long notice.
ER13SE21.002
(b)
Spanish language model notice
—(1)
Short notice.
ER13SE21.003
(2)
Long notice.
ER13SE21.004
[86 FR 50850, Sept. 13, 2021]

# SUBCHAPTER G—RULES, REGULATIONS, STATEMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS UNDER THE MAGNUSON-MOSS WARRANTY ACT
Pt. 700

# PART 700—INTERPRETATIONS OF MAGNUSON-MOSS WARRANTY ACT
Sec.
700.1
Products covered.
700.2
Date of manufacture.
700.3
Written warranty.
700.4
Parties “actually making” a written warranty.
700.5
Expressions of general policy.
700.6
Designation of warranties.
700.7
Use of warranty registration cards.
700.8
Warrantor's decision as final.
700.9
Duty to install under a full warranty.
700.10
Prohibited tying.
700.11
Written warranty, service contract, and insurance distinguished for purposes of compliance under the Act.
700.12
Effective date of 16 CFR parts 701 and 702.

# Authority:
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, Pub. L. 93-637, 15 U.S.C. 2301.

# Source:
42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 700.1
Products covered.
(a) The Act applies to written warranties on tangible personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or household purposes. This definition includes property which is intended to be attached to or installed in any real property without regard to whether it is so attached or installed. This means that a product is a “consumer product” if the use of that type of product is not uncommon. The percentage of sales or the use to which a product is put by any individual buyer is not determinative. For example, products such as automobiles and typewriters which are used for both personal and commercial purposes come within the definition of consumer product. Where it is unclear whether a particular product is covered under the definition of consumer product, any ambiguity will be resolved in favor of coverage.
(b) Agricultural products such as farm machinery, structures and implements used in the business or occupation of farming are not covered by the Act where their personal, family, or household use is uncommon. However, those agricultural products normally used for personal or household gardening (for example, to produce goods for personal consumption, and not for resale) are consumer products under the Act.
(c) The definition of “Consumer product” limits the applicability of the Act to personal property, “including any such property intended to be attached to or installed in any real property without regard to whether it is so attached or installed.” This provision brings under the Act separate items of equipment attached to real property, such as air conditioners, furnaces, and water heaters.
(d) The coverage of separate items of equipment attached to real property includes, but is not limited to, appliances and other thermal, mechanical, and electrical equipment. (It does not extend to the wiring, plumbing, ducts, and other items which are integral component parts of the structure.) State law would classify many such products as fixtures to, and therefore a part of, realty. The statutory definition is designed to bring such products under the Act regardless of whether they may be considered fixtures under state law.
(e) The coverage of building materials which are not separate items of equipment is based on the nature of the purchase transaction. An analysis of the transaction will determine whether the goods are real or personal property. The numerous products which go into the construction of a consumer dwelling are all consumer products when sold “over the counter,” as by hardware and building supply retailers. This is also true where a consumer contracts for the purchase of such materials in connection with the improvement, repair, or modification of a home (for example, paneling, dropped ceilings, siding, roofing, storm windows, remodeling). However, where such
products are at the time of sale integrated into the structure of a dwelling they are not consumer products as they cannot be practically distinguished from realty. Thus, for example, the beams, wallboard, wiring, plumbing, windows, roofing, and other structural components of a dwelling are not consumer products when they are sold as part of real estate covered by a written warranty.
(f) In the case where a consumer contracts with a builder to construct a home, a substantial addition to a home, or other realty (such as a garage or an in-ground swimming pool) the building materials to be used are not consumer products. Although the materials are separately identifiable at the time the contract is made, it is the intention of the parties to contract for the construction of realty which will integrate the component materials. Of course, as noted above, any separate items of equipment to be attached to such realty are consumer products under the Act.
(g) Certain provisions of the Act apply only to products actually costing the consumer more than a specified amount. Section 103, 15 U.S.C. 2303, applies to consumer products actually costing the consumer more than $10, excluding tax. The $10 minimum will be interpreted to include multiple-packaged items which may individually sell for less than $10, but which have been packaged in a manner that does not permit breaking the package to purchase an item or items at a price less than $10. Thus, a written warranty on a dozen items packaged and priced for sale at $12 must be designated, even though identical items may be offered in smaller quantities at under $10. This interpretation applies in the same manner to the minimum dollar limits in section 102, 15 U.S.C. 2302, and rules promulgated under that section.
(h) Warranties on replacement parts and components used to repair consumer products are covered; warranties on services are not covered. Therefore, warranties which apply solely to a repairer's workmanship in performing repairs are not subject to the Act. Where a written agreement warrants both the parts provided to effect a repair and the workmanship in making that repair, the warranty must comply with the Act and the rules thereunder.
(i) The Act covers written warranties on consumer products “distributed in commerce” as that term is defined in section 101(13), 15 U.S.C. 2301(13). Thus, by its terms the Act arguably applies to products exported to foreign jurisdictions. However, the public interest would not be served by the use of Commission resources to enforce the Act with respect to such products. Moreover, the legislative intent to apply the requirements of the Act to such products is not sufficiently clear to justify such an extraordinary result. The Commission does not contemplate the enforcement of the Act with respect to consumer products exported to foreign jurisdictions. Products exported for sale at military post exchanges remain subject to the same enforcement standards as products sold within the United States, its territories and possessions.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.2
Date of manufacture.
Section 112 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2312, provides that the Act shall apply only to those consumer products manufactured after July 4, 1975. When a consumer purchases repair of a consumer product the date of manufacture of any replacement parts used is the measuring date for determining coverage under the Act. The date of manufacture of the consumer product being repaired is in this instance not relevant. Where a consumer purchases or obtains on an exchange basis a rebuilt consumer product, the date that the rebuilding process is completed determines the Act's applicability.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977; 42 FR 38341, July 28, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.3
Written warranty.
(a) The Act imposes specific duties and liabilities on suppliers who offer written warranties on consumer products. Certain representations, such as energy efficiency ratings for electrical appliances, care labeling of wearing apparel, and other product information disclosures may be express warranties under the Uniform Commercial Code.
However, these disclosures alone are not written warranties under this Act. Section 101(6), 15 U.S.C. 2301(6), provides that a written affirmation of fact or a written promise of a specified level of performance must relate to a specified period of time in order to be considered a “written warranty.”
1
A product information disclosure without a specified time period to which the disclosure relates is therefore not a written warranty. In addition, section 111(d), 15 U.S.C. 2311(d), exempts from the Act (except section 102(c), 15 U.S.C. 2302(c)) any written warranty the making or content of which is required by federal law. The Commission encourages the disclosure of product information which is not deceptive and which may benefit consumers, and will not construe the Act to impede information disclosure in product advertising or labeling.
1
A “written warranty” is also created by a written affirmation of fact or a written promise that the product is defect free, or by a written undertaking of remedial action within the meaning of section 101(6)(B), 15 U.S.C. 2301(6)(B).
(b) Certain terms, or conditions, of sale of a consumer product may not be “written warranties” as that term is defined in section 101(6), 15 U.S.C. 2301(6), and should not be offered or described in a manner that may deceive consumers as to their enforceability under the Act. For example, a seller of consumer products may give consumers an unconditional right to revoke acceptance of goods within a certain number of days after delivery without regard to defects or failure to meet a specified level of performance. Or a seller may permit consumers to return products for any reason for credit toward purchase of another item. Such terms of sale taken alone are not written warranties under the Act. Therefore, suppliers should avoid any characterization of such terms of sale as warranties. The use of such terms as “free trial period” and “trade-in credit policy” in this regard would be appropriate. Furthermore, such terms of sale should be stated separately from any written warranty. Of course, the offering and performance of such terms of sale remain subject to section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 45.
(c) The Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act generally applies to written warranties covering consumer products. Many consumer products are covered by warranties which are neither intended for, nor enforceable by, consumers. A common example is a warranty given by a component supplier to a manufacturer of consumer products. (The manufacturer may, in turn, warrant these components to consumers.) The component supplier's warranty is generally given solely to the product manufacturer, and is neither intended to be conveyed to the consumer nor brought to the consumer's attention in connection with the sale. Such warranties are not subject to the Act, since a written warranty under section 101(6) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2301(6), must become “part of the basis of the bargain between a supplier and a buyer for purposes other than resale.” However, the Act applies to a component supplier's warranty in writing which is given to the consumer. An example is a supplier's written warranty to the consumer covering a refrigerator that is sold installed in a boat or recreational vehicle. The supplier of the refrigerator relies on the boat or vehicle assembler to convey the written agreement to the consumer. In this case, the supplier's written warranty is to a consumer, and is covered by the Act.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.4
Parties “actually making” a written warranty.
Section 110(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310(f), provides that only the supplier “actually making” a written warranty is liable for purposes of FTC and private enforcement of the Act. A supplier who does no more than distribute or sell a consumer product covered by a written warranty offered by another person or business and which identifies that person or business as the warrantor is not liable for failure of the written warranty to comply with the Act or rules thereunder. However,
other actions and written and oral representations of such a supplier in connection with the offer or sale of a warranted product may obligate that supplier under the Act. If under State law the supplier is deemed to have “adopted” the written affirmation of fact, promise, or undertaking, the supplier is also obligated under the Act. Suppliers are advised to consult State law to determine those actions and representations which may make them co-warrantors, and therefore obligated under the warranty of the other person or business.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.5
Expressions of general policy.
(a) Under section 103(b), 15 U.S.C. 2303(b), statements or representations of general policy concerning customer satisfaction which are not subject to any specific limitation need not be designated as full or limited warranties, and are exempt from the requirements of sections 102, 103, and 104 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2302-2304, and rules thereunder. However, such statements remain subject to the enforcement provisions of section 110 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310, and to section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 45.
(b) The section 103(b), 15 U.S.C. 2303(b), exemption applies only to general policies, not to those which are limited to specific consumer products manufactured or sold by the supplier offering such a policy. In addition, to qualify for an exemption under section 103(b), 15 U.S.C. 2303(b), such policies may not be subject to any specific limitations. For example, policies which have an express limitation of duration or a limitation of the amount to be refunded are not exempted. This does not preclude the imposition of reasonable limitations based on the circumstances in each instance a consumer seeks to invoke such an agreement. For instance, a warrantor may refuse to honor such an expression of policy where a consumer has used a product for 10 years without previously expressing any dissatisfaction with the product. Such a refusal would not be a specific limitation under this provision.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.6
Designation of warranties.
(a) Section 103 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2303, provides that written warranties on consumer products manufactured after July 4, 1975, and actually costing the consumer more than $10, excluding tax, must be designated either “Full (statement of duration) Warranty” or “Limited Warranty”. Warrantors may include a statement of duration in a limited warranty designation. The designation or designations should appear clearly and conspicuously as a caption, or prominent title, clearly separated from the text of the warranty. The full (statement of duration) warranty and limited warranty are the exclusive designations permitted under the Act, unless a specific exception is created by rule.
(b) Based on section 104(b)(4), 15 U.S.C. 2304(b)(4), the duties under subsection (a) of section 104, 15 U.S.C. 2304, extend from the warrantor to each person who is a consumer with respect to the consumer product. Section 101(3), 15 U.S.C. 2301(3), defines a consumer as a buyer (other than for purposes of resale) of any consumer product, any person to whom such product is transferred during the duration of an implied or written warranty (or service contract) applicable to the product. Therefore, a full warranty may not expressly restrict the warranty rights of a transferee during its stated duration. However, where the duration of a full warranty is defined solely in terms of first purchaser ownership there can be no violation of section 104(b)(4), 15 U.S.C. 2304(b)(4), since the duration of the warranty expires, by definition, at the time of transfer. No rights of a subsequent transferee are cut off as there is no transfer of ownership “during the duration of (any) warranty.” Thus, these provisions do not preclude the offering of a full warranty with its duration determined exclusively by the period during which the first purchaser owns the product, or uses it in conjunction with another product. For example, an automotive battery or muffler warranty may be designated as “full
warranty for as long as you own your car.” Because this type of warranty leads the consumer to believe that proof of purchase is not needed so long as he or she owns the product a duty to furnish documentary proof may not be reasonably imposed on the consumer under this type of warranty. The burden is on the warrantor to prove that a particular claimant under this type of warranty is not the original purchaser or owner of the product. Warrantors or their designated agents may, however, ask consumers to state or affirm that they are the first purchaser of the product.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.7
Use of warranty registration cards.
(a) Under section 104(b)(1) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2304(b)(1), a warrantor offering a full warranty may not impose on consumers any duty other than notification of a defect as a condition of securing remedy of the defect or malfunction, unless such additional duty can be demonstrated by the warrantor to be reasonable. Warrantors have in the past stipulated the return of a “warranty registration” or similar card. By “warranty registration card” the Commission means a card which must be returned by the consumer shortly after purchase of the product and which is stipulated or implied in the warranty to be a condition precedent to warranty coverage and performance.
(b) A requirement that the consumer return a warranty registration card or a similar notice as a condition of performance under a full warranty is an unreasonable duty. Thus, a provision such as, “This warranty is void unless the warranty registration card is returned to the warrantor” is not permissible in a full warranty, nor is it permissible to imply such a condition in a full warranty.
(c) This does not prohibit the use of such registration cards where a warrantor suggests use of the card as one possible means of proof of the date the product was purchased. For example, it is permissible to provide in a full warranty that a consumer may fill out and return a card to place on file proof of the date the product was purchased. Any such suggestion to the consumer must include notice that failure to return the card will not affect rights under the warranty, so long as the consumer can show in a reasonable manner the date the product was purchased. Nor does this interpretation prohibit a seller from obtaining from purchasers at the time of sale information requested by the warrantor.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.8
Warrantor's decision as final.
A warrantor shall not indicate in any written warranty or service contract either directly or indirectly that the decision of the warrantor, service contractor, or any designated third party is final or binding in any dispute concerning the warranty or service contract. Nor shall a warrantor or service contractor state that it alone shall determine what is a defect under the agreement. Such statements are deceptive since section 110(d) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310(d), gives state and federal courts jurisdiction over suits for breach of warranty and service contract.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.9
Duty to install under a full warranty.
Under section 104(a)(1) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2304(a)(1), the remedy under a full warranty must be provided to the consumer without charge. If the warranted product has utility only when installed, a full warranty must provide such installation without charge regardless of whether or not the consumer originally paid for installation by the warrantor or his agent. However, this does not preclude the warrantor from imposing on the consumer a duty to remove, return, or reinstall where such duty can be demonstrated by the warrantor to meet the standard of reasonableness under section 104(b)(1), 15 U.S.C. 2304(b)(1).
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.10
Prohibited tying.
(a) Section 102(c), 15 U.S.C. 2302(c), prohibits tying arrangements that condition coverage under a written warranty on the consumer's use of an article or service identified by brand, trade, or corporate name unless that article or service is provided without charge to the consumer.
(b) Under a limited warranty that provides only for replacement of defective parts and no portion of labor charges, section 102(c), 15 U.S.C. 2302(c), prohibits a condition that the consumer use only service (labor) identified by the warrantor to install the replacement parts. A warrantor or his designated representative may not provide parts under the warranty in a manner which impedes or precludes the choice by the consumer of the person or business to perform necessary labor to install such parts.
(c) No warrantor may condition the continued validity of a warranty on the use of only authorized repair service and/or authorized replacement parts for non-warranty service and maintenance (other than an article of service provided without charge under the warranty or unless the warrantor has obtained a waiver pursuant to section 102(c) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2302(c)). For example, provisions such as, “This warranty is void if service is performed by anyone other than an authorized `ABC' dealer and all replacement parts must be genuine `ABC' parts,” and the like, are prohibited where the service or parts are not covered by the warranty. These provisions violate the Act in two ways. First, they violate the section 102(c), 15 U.S.C. 2302(c), ban against tying arrangements. Second, such provisions are deceptive under section 110 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310, because a warrantor cannot, as a matter of law, avoid liability under a written warranty where a defect is unrelated to the use by a consumer of “unauthorized” articles or service. In addition, warranty language that implies to a consumer acting reasonably in the circumstances that warranty coverage requires the consumer's purchase of an article or service identified by brand, trade or corporate name is similarly deceptive. For example, a provision in the warranty such as, “use only an authorized `ABC' dealer” or “use only `ABC' replacement parts,” is prohibited where the service or parts are not provided free of charge pursuant to the warranty. This does not preclude a warrantor from expressly excluding liability for defects or damage caused by “unauthorized” articles or service; nor does it preclude the warrantor from denying liability where the warrantor can demonstrate that the defect or damage was so caused.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42721, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.11
Written warranty, service contract, and insurance distinguished for purposes of compliance under the Act.
(a) The Act recognizes two types of agreements which may provide similar coverage of consumer products, the written warranty, and the service contract. In addition, other agreements may meet the statutory definitions of either “written warranty” or “service contract,” but are sold and regulated under state law as contracts of insurance. One example is the automobile breakdown insurance policies sold in many jurisdictions and regulated by the state as a form of casualty insurance. The McCarran-Ferguson Act, 15 U.S.C. 1011
et seq.,
provides that most federal laws (including the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act) shall not be construed to invalidate, impair, or supersede any law enacted by any State for the purpose of regulating the business of insurance. While three specific laws are subject to a separate proviso, the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act is not one of them. Thus, to the extent the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act's service contract provisions apply to the business of insurance, they are effective so long as they do not invalidate, impair, or supersede a State law enacted for the purpose of regulating the business of insurance.
(b) “Written warranty” and “service contract” are defined in sections 101(6) and 101(8) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2301(6) and 15 U.S.C. 2301(8), respectively. This means that it must be conveyed at the time of sale of the consumer product and the consumer must not give any consideration beyond the purchase price of the consumer product in order
to benefit from the agreement. It is not a requirement of the Act that an agreement obligate a supplier of the consumer product to a written warranty, but merely that it be part of the basis of the bargain between a supplier and a consumer. This contemplates written warranties by third-party non-suppliers.
(c) A service contract under the Act must meet the definitions of section 101(8), 15 U.S.C. 2301(8). An agreement which would meet the definition of written warranty in section 101(6)(A) or (B), 15 U.S.C. 2301(6)(A) or (B), but for its failure to satisfy the basis of the bargain test is a service contract. For example, an agreement which calls for some consideration in addition to the purchase price of the consumer product, or which is entered into at some date after the purchase of the consumer product to which it applies, is a service contract. An agreement which relates only to the performance of maintenance and/or inspection services and which is not an undertaking, promise, or affirmation with respect to a specified level of performance, or that the product is free of defects in materials or workmanship, is a service contract. An agreement to perform periodic cleaning and inspection of a product over a specified period of time, even when offered at the time of sale and without charge to the consumer, is an example of such a service contract.
[42 FR 36114, July 13, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 42722, July 20, 2015]
§ 700.12
Effective date of 16 CFR parts 701 and 702.
The Statement of Basis and Purpose of the final rules promulgated on December 31, 1975, provides that parts 701 and 702 of this chapter will become effective one year after the date of promulgation, December 31, 1976. The Commission intends this to mean that these rules apply only to written warranties on products manufactured after December 31, 1976.
Pt. 701

# PART 701—DISCLOSURE OF WRITTEN CONSUMER PRODUCT WARRANTY TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Sec.
701.1
Definitions.
701.2
Scope.
701.3
Written warranty terms.
701.4
Owner registration cards.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2302 and 2309.

# Source:
40 FR 60188, Dec. 31, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 701.1
Definitions.
(a)
The Act
means the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act, 15 U.S.C. 2301,
et seq.
(b)
Consumer product
means any tangible personal property which is distributed in commerce and which is normally used for personal, family, or household purposes (including any such property intended to be attached to or installed in any real property without regard to whether it is so attached or installed. Products which are purchased solely for commercial or industrial use are excluded solely for purposes of this part.
(c)
Written warranty
means:
(1) Any written affirmation of fact or written promise made in connection with the sale of a consumer product by a supplier to a buyer which relates to the nature of the material or workmanship and affirms or promises that such material or workmanship is defect free or will meet a specified level of performance over a specified period of time, or
(2) Any undertaking in writing in connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product to refund, repair, replace, or take other remedial action with respect to such product in the event that such product fails to meet the specifications set forth in the undertaking, which written affirmation, promise or undertaking becomes part of the basis of the bargain between a supplier and a buyer for purposes other than resale of such product.
(d)
Implied warranty
means an implied warranty arising under State law (as modified by sections 104(a) and 108 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2304(a) and 2308), in
connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product.
(e)
Remedy
means whichever of the following actions the warrantor elects:
(1) Repair,
(2) Replacement, or
(3) Refund; except that the warrantor may not elect refund unless:
(i) The warrantor is unable to provide replacement and repair is not commercially practicable or cannot be timely made, or
(ii) The consumer is willing to accept such refund.
(f)
Supplier
means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product directly or indirectly available to consumers.
(g)
Manufacturer
means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product.
(h)
Warrantor
means any supplier, manufacturer, or other person who gives or offers to give a written warranty.
(i)
Consumer
means a buyer (other than for purposes of resale or use in the ordinary course of the buyer's business) of any consumer product, any person to whom such product is transferred during the duration of an implied or written warranty applicable to the product, and any other such person who is entitled by the terms of such warranty or under applicable State law to enforce against the warrantor the obligations of the warranty.
(j)
On the face of the warranty
means:
(1) Where the warranty is a single sheet with printing on both sides of the sheet or where the warranty is comprised of more than one sheet, the page on which the warranty text begins;
(2) Where the warranty is included as part of a larger document, such as a use and care manual, the page in such document on which the warranty text begins;
(3) Where the warranty is on an Internet Web site or displayed electronically, in close proximity to the location where the warranty text begins.
[40 FR 60188, Dec. 31, 1975, as amended at 80 FR 42722, July 20, 2015; 81 FR 63669, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 701.2
Scope.
The regulations in this part establish requirements for warrantors for disclosing the terms and conditions of written warranties on consumer products actually costing the consumer more than $15.00.
§ 701.3
Written warranty terms.
(a) Any warrantor warranting to a consumer by means of a written warranty a consumer product actually costing the consumer more than $15.00 shall clearly and conspicuously disclose in a single document in simple and readily understood language, the following items of information:
(1) The identity of the party or parties to whom the written warranty is extended, if the enforceability of the written warranty is limited to the original consumer purchaser or is otherwise limited to persons other than every consumer owner during the term of the warranty;
(2) A clear description and identification of products, or parts, or characteristics, or components or properties covered by and where necessary for clarification, excluded from the warranty;
(3) A statement of what the warrantor will do in the event of a defect, malfunction or failure to conform with the written warranty, including the items or services the warrantor will pay for or provide, and, where necessary for clarification, those which the warrantor will not pay for or provide;
(4) The point in time or event on which the warranty term commences, if different from the purchase date, and the time period or other measurement of warranty duration;
(5) A step-by-step explanation of the procedure which the consumer should follow in order to obtain performance of any warranty obligation, including the persons or class of persons authorized to perform warranty obligations. This includes the name(s) of the warrantor(s), together with: The mailing address(es) of the warrantor(s), and/or the name or title and the address of any employee or department of the warrantor responsible for the performance of warranty obligations, and/or a telephone number which consumers may use without charge to obtain information on warranty performance;
(6) Information respecting the availability of any informal dispute settlement mechanism elected by the warrantor in compliance with part 703 of this subchapter;
(7) Any limitations on the duration of implied warranties, disclosed on the face of the warranty as provided in section 108 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2308, accompanied by the following statement:
Some States do not allow limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts, so the above limitation may not apply to you.
(8) Any exclusions of or limitations on relief such as incidental or consequential damages, accompanied by the following statement, which may be combined with the statement required in paragraph (a)(7) of this section:
Some States do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply to you.
(9) A statement in the following language:
This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have other rights which vary from State to State.
(b) Paragraphs (a) (1) through (9) of this section shall not be applicable with respect to statements of general policy on emblems, seals or insignias issued by third parties promising replacement or refund if a consumer product is defective, which statements contain no representation or assurance of the quality or performance characteristics of the product;
Provided
That: (1) The disclosures required by paragraphs (a) (1) through (9) of this section are published by such third parties in each issue of a publication with a general circulation, and (2) such disclosures are provided free of charge to any consumer upon written request.
[40 FR 60188, Dec. 31, 1975, as amended at 80 FR 42722, July 20, 2015]
§ 701.4
Owner registration cards.
When a warrantor employs any card such as an owner's registration card, a warranty registration card, or the like, and the return of such card is a condition precedent to warranty coverage and performance, the warrantor shall disclose this fact in the warranty. If the return of such card reasonably appears to be a condition precedent to warranty coverage and performance, but is not such a condition, that fact shall be disclosed in the warranty.
Pt. 702

# PART 702—PRE-SALE AVAILABILITY OF WRITTEN WARRANTY TERMS
Sec.
702.1
Definitions.
702.2
Scope.
702.3
Pre-sale availability of written warranty terms.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2302 and 2309.

# Source:
40 FR 60189, Dec. 31, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 702.1
Definitions.
(a)
The Act
means the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act, 15 U.S.C. 2301,
et seq.
(b)
Consumer product
means any tangible personal property which is distributed in commerce and which is normally used for personal, family, or household purposes (including any such property intended to be attached to or installed in any real property without regard to whether it is so attached or installed). Products which are purchased solely for commercial or industrial use are excluded solely for purposes of this part.
(c)
Written warranty
means—
(1) Any written affirmation of fact or written promise made in connection with the sale of a consumer product by a supplier to a buyer which relates to the nature of the material or workmanship and affirms or promises that such material or workmanship is defect free or will meet a specified level of performance over a specified period of time, or
(2) Any undertaking in writing in connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product to refund, repair, replace or take other remedial action with respect to such product in the event that such product fails to meet the specifications set forth in the undertaking,
which written affirmation, promise, or undertaking becomes part of the basis of the bargain between a supplier and a buyer for purposes other than resale of such product.
(d)
Warrantor
means any supplier, manufacturer, or other person who gives or offers to give a written warranty.
(e)
Seller
means any person who sells or offers for sale for purposes other than resale or use in the ordinary course of the buyer's business any consumer product.
(f)
Supplier
means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product directly or indirectly available to consumers.
(g)
Manufacturer
means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product.
[40 FR 60189, Dec. 31, 1975, as amended at 52 FR 7574, Mar. 12, 1987; 81 FR 63669, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 702.2
Scope.
The regulations in this part establish requirements for sellers and warrantors for making the terms of any written warranty on a consumer product available to the consumer prior to sale.
§ 702.3
Pre-sale availability of written warranty terms.
The following requirements apply to consumer products actually costing the consumer more than $15.00:
(a)
Duties of seller.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c) through (d) of this section, the seller of a consumer product with a written warranty shall make a text of the warranty readily available for examination by the prospective buyer by:
(1) Displaying it in close proximity to the warranted product (including through electronic or other means, if the warrantor has elected the option described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), or
(2) Furnishing it upon request prior to sale (including through electronic or other means, if the warrantor has elected the option described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) and placing signs reasonably calculated to elicit the prospective buyer's attention in prominent locations in the store or department advising such prospective buyers of the availability of warranties upon request.
(b)
Duties of the warrantor.
(1) A warrantor who gives a written warranty warranting to a consumer a consumer product actually costing the consumer more than $15.00 shall:
(i) Provide sellers with warranty materials necessary for such sellers to comply with the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, by the use of one or more of the following means:
(A) Providing a copy of the written warranty with every warranted consumer product;
(B) Providing a tag, sign, sticker, label, decal or other attachment to the product, which contains the full text of the written warranty;
(C) Printing on or otherwise attaching the text of the written warranty to the package, carton, or other container if that package, carton or other container is normally used for display purposes. If the warrantor elects this option a copy of the written warranty must also accompany the warranted product; or
(D) Providing a notice, sign, or poster disclosing the text of a consumer product warranty. If the warrantor elects this option, a copy of the written warranty must also accompany each warranted product.
(ii) Provide catalog, mail order, and door-to-door sellers with copies of written warranties necessary for such sellers to comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(2) As an alternative method of compliance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a warrantor may provide the warranty terms in an accessible digital format on the warrantor's Internet Web site. If the warrantor elects this option, the warrantor must:
(i) Provide information to the consumer that will inform the consumer how to obtain warranty terms by indicating, in a clear and conspicuous manner, in the product manual or on the product or product packaging:
(A) The Internet Web site of the warrantor where such warranty terms can be reviewed, and
(B) The phone number, the postal mailing address of the warrantor, or other reasonable non-Internet based means for the consumer to request a copy of the warranty terms;
(ii) Provide a hard copy of the warranty terms promptly and free of
charge upon request by a consumer or seller made pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section;
(iii) Ensure that warranty terms are posted in a clear and conspicuous manner and remain accessible to the consumer on the Internet Web site of the warrantor; and
(iv) Provide information with the consumer product or on the Internet Web site of the warrantor sufficient to allow the consumer to readily identify on such Internet Web sites the warranty terms that apply to the specific warranted product.
(3) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not be applicable with respect to statements of general policy on emblems, seals or insignias issued by third parties promising replacement or refund if a consumer product is defective, which statements contain no representation or assurance of the quality or performance characteristics of the product; provided that
(i) The disclosures required by § 701.3(a)(1) through (9) of this chapter are published by such third parties in each issue of a publication with a general circulation, and
(ii) Such disclosures are provided free of charge to any consumer upon written request.
(c)
Catalog and mail order sales.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph:
(i) Catalog or mail order sales means any offer for sale, or any solicitation for an order for a consumer product with a written warranty, which includes instructions for ordering the product which do not require a personal visit to the seller's establishment.
(ii) Close conjunction means on the page containing the description of the warranted product, or on the page facing that page.
(2) Any seller who offers for sale to consumers consumer products with written warranties by means of a catalog or mail order solicitation shall clearly and conspicuously disclose in such catalog or solicitation in close conjunction to the description of the warranted product, or in an information section of the catalog or solicitation clearly referenced, including a page number, in close conjunction to the description of the warranted product, either:
(i) The full text of the written warranty; or
(ii) The address of the Internet Web site of the warrantor where such warranty terms can be reviewed (if such Internet Web site exists), as well as that the written warranty can be obtained free upon specific request, and the address or phone number where such warranty can be requested. If this option is elected, such seller shall promptly provide a copy of any written warranty requested by the consumer (and may provide such copy through electronic or other means, if the warrantor has elected the option described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
(d)
Door-to-door sales.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph:
(i) Door-to-door sale means a sale of consumer products in which the seller or his representative personally solicits the sale, including those in response to or following an invitation by a buyer, and the buyer's agreement to offer to purchase is made at a place other than the place of business of the seller.
(ii) Prospective buyer means an individual solicited by a door-to-door seller to buy a consumer product who indicates sufficient interest in that consumer product or maintains sufficient contact with the seller for the seller reasonably to conclude that the person solicited is considering purchasing the product.
(2) Any seller who offers for sale to consumers consumer products with written warranties by means of door-to-door sales shall, prior to the consummation of the sale, disclose the fact that the sales representative has copies of the warranties for the warranted products being offered for sale, which may be inspected by the prospective buyer at any time during the sales presentation. Such disclosure shall be made orally and shall be included in any written materials shown to prospective buyers. If the warrantor has elected the option described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sales representative may provide a copy of the warranty through electronic or other means.
[81 FR 63669, Sept. 15, 2016]
Pt. 703

# PART 703—INFORMAL DISPUTE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES
Sec.
703.1
Definitions.
703.2
Duties of warrantor.

# Minimum Requirements of the Mechanism
703.3
Mechanism organization.
703.4
Qualification of members.
703.5
Operation of the Mechanism.
703.6
Recordkeeping.
703.7
Audits.
703.8
Openness of records and proceedings.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 2309 and 2310.

# Source:
40 FR 60215, Dec. 31, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 703.1
Definitions.
(a)
The Act
means the Magnuson-Moss Warranty—Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act, 15 U.S.C. 2301,
et seq.
(b)
Consumer product
means any tangible personal property which is distributed in commerce and which is normally used for personal, family, or household purposes (including any such property intended to be attached to or installed in any real property without regard to whether it is so attached or installed).
(c)
Written warranty
means:
(1) Any written affirmation of fact or written promise made in connection with the sale of a consumer product by a supplier to a buyer which relates to the nature of the material or workmanship and affirms or promises that such material or workmanship is defect free or will meet a specified level of performance over a specified period of time, or
(2) Any undertaking in writing in connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product to refund, repair, replace, or take other remedial action with respect to such product in the event that such product fails to meet the specifications set forth in the undertaking, which written affirmation, promise or undertaking becomes part of the basis of the bargain between a supplier and a buyer for purposes other than resale of such product.
(d)
Warrantor
means any person who gives or offers to give a written warranty which incorporates an informal dispute settlement mechanism.
(e)
Mechanism
means an informal dispute settlement procedure which is incorporated into the terms of a written warranty to which any provision of Title I of the Act applies, as provided in section 110 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310.
(f)
Members
means the person or persons within a Mechanism actually deciding disputes.
(g)
Consumer
means a buyer (other than for purposes of resale) of any consumer product, any person to whom such product is transferred during the duration of a written warranty applicable to the product, and any other person who is entitled by the terms of such warranty or under applicable state law to enforce against the warrantor the obligations of the warranty.
(h)
On the face of the warranty
means:
(1) If the warranty is a single sheet with printing on both sides of the sheet, or if the warranty is comprised of more than one sheet, the page on which the warranty text begins;
(2) If the warranty is included as part of a longer document, such as a use and care manual, the page in such document on which the warranty text begins.
[40 FR 60215, Dec. 31, 1975, as amended at 80 FR 42722, July 20, 2015]
§ 703.2
Duties of warrantor.
(a) The warrantor shall not incorporate into the terms of a written warranty a Mechanism that fails to comply with the requirements contained in §§ 703.3 through 703.8 of this part. This paragraph (a) shall not prohibit a warrantor from incorporating into the terms of a written warranty the step-by-step procedure which the consumer should take in order to obtain performance of any obligation under the warranty as described in section 102(a)(7) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2302(a)(7), and required by part 701 of this subchapter.
(b) The warrantor shall disclose clearly and conspicuously at least the following information on the face of the written warranty:
(1) A statement of the availability of the informal dispute settlement mechanism;
(2) The name and address of the Mechanism, or the name and a telephone number of the Mechanism which consumers may use without charge;
(3) A statement of any requirement that the consumer resort to the Mechanism before exercising rights or seeking remedies created by Title I of the Act; together with the disclosure that if a consumer chooses to seek redress by pursuing rights and remedies not created by Title I of the Act, resort to the Mechanism would not be required by any provision of the Act; and
(4) A statement, if applicable, indicating where further information on the Mechanism can be found in materials accompanying the product, as provided in § 703.2(c) of this section.
(c) The warrantor shall include in the written warranty or in a separate section of materials accompanying the product, the following information:
(1) Either
(i) A form addressed to the Mechanism containing spaces requesting the information which the Mechanism may require for prompt resolution of warranty disputes; or
(ii) A telephone number of the Mechanism which consumers may use without charge;
(2) The name and address of the Mechanism;
(3) A brief description of Mechanism procedures;
(4) The time limits adhered to by the Mechanism; and
(5) The types of information which the Mechanism may require for prompt resolution of warranty disputes.
(d) The warrantor shall take steps reasonably calculated to make consumers aware of the Mechanism's existence at the time consumers experience warranty disputes. Nothing contained in paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section shall limit the warrantor's option to encourage consumers to seek redress directly from the warrantor as long as the warrantor does not expressly require consumers to seek redress directly from the warrantor. The warrantor shall proceed fairly and expeditiously to attempt to resolve all disputes submitted directly to the warrantor.
(e) Whenever a dispute is submitted directly to the warrantor, the warrantor shall, within a reasonable time, decide whether, and to what extent, it will satisfy the consumer, and inform the consumer of its decision. In its notification to the consumer of its decision, the warrantor shall include the information required in § 703.2 (b) and (c) of this section.
(f) The warrantor shall:
(1) Respond fully and promptly to reasonable requests by the Mechanism for information relating to disputes;
(2) Upon notification of any decision of the Mechanism that would require action on the part of the warrantor, immediately notify the Mechanism whether, and to what extent, warrantor will abide by the decision; and
(3) Perform any obligations it has agreed to.
(g) The warrantor shall act in good faith in determining whether, and to what extent, it will abide by a Mechanism decision.
(h) The warrantor shall comply with any reasonable requirements imposed by the Mechanism to fairly and expeditiously resolve warranty disputes.
[40 FR 60215, Dec. 31, 1975, as amended at 80 FR 42722, July 20, 2015]

# Minimum Requirements of the Mechanism
§ 703.3
Mechanism organization.
(a) The Mechanism shall be funded and competently staffed at a level sufficient to ensure fair and expeditious resolution of all disputes, and shall not charge consumers any fee for use of the Mechanism.
(b) The warrantor and the sponsor of the Mechanism (if other than the warrantor) shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the Mechanism, and its members and staff, are sufficiently insulated from the warrantor and the sponsor, so that the decisions of the members and the performance of the staff are not influenced by either the warrantor or the sponsor. Necessary steps shall include, at a minimum, committing funds in advance, basing personnel decisions solely on merit, and not assigning conflicting warrantor or sponsor duties to Mechanism staff persons.
(c) The Mechanism shall impose any other reasonable requirements necessary to ensure that the members and staff act fairly and expeditiously in each dispute.
§ 703.4
Qualification of members.
(a) No member deciding a dispute shall be:
(1) A party to the dispute, or an employee or agent of a party other than for purposes of deciding disputes; or
(2) A person who is or may become a party in any legal action, including but not limited to class actions, relating to the product or complaint in dispute, or an employee or agent of such person other than for purposes of deciding disputes. For purposes of this paragraph (a) a person shall not be considered a “party” solely because he or she acquires or owns an interest in a party solely for investment, and the acquisition or ownership of an interest which is offered to the general public shall be prima facie evidence of its acquisition or ownership solely for investment.
(b) When one or two members are deciding a dispute, all shall be persons having no direct involvement in the manufacture, distribution, sale or service of any product. When three or more members are deciding a dispute, at least two-thirds shall be persons having no direct involvement in the manufacture, distribution, sale or service of any product. “Direct involvement” shall not include acquiring or owning an interest solely for investment, and the acquisition or ownership of an interest which is offered to the general public shall be prima facie evidence of its acquisition or ownership solely for investment. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the members from consulting with any persons knowledgeable in the technical, commercial or other areas relating to the product which is the subject of the dispute.
(c) Members shall be persons interested in the fair and expeditious settlement of consumer disputes.
§ 703.5
Operation of the Mechanism.
(a) The Mechanism shall establish written operating procedures which shall include at least those items specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section. Copies of the written procedures shall be made available to any person upon request.
(b) Upon notification of a dispute, the Mechanism shall immediately inform both the warrantor and the consumer of receipt of the dispute.
(c) The Mechanism shall investigate, gather and organize all information necessary for a fair and expeditious decision in each dispute. When any evidence gathered by or submitted to the Mechanism raises issues relating to the number of repair attempts, the length of repair periods, the possibility of unreasonable use of the product, or any other issues relevant in light of Title I of the Act (or rules thereunder), including issues relating to consequential damages, or any other remedy under the Act (or rules thereunder), the Mechanism shall investigate these issues. When information which will or may be used in the decision, submitted by one party, or a consultant under § 703.4(b) of this part, or any other source tends to contradict facts submitted by the other party, the Mechanism shall clearly, accurately, and completely disclose to both parties the contradictory information (and its source) and shall provide both parties an opportunity to explain or rebut the information and to submit additional materials. The Mechanism shall not require any information not reasonably necessary to decide the dispute.
(d) If the dispute has not been settled, the Mechanism shall, as expeditiously as possible but at least within 40 days of notification of the dispute, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section:
(1) Render a fair decision based on the information gathered as described in paragraph (c) of this section, and on any information submitted at an oral presentation which conforms to the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section (A decision shall include any remedies appropriate under the circumstances, including repair, replacement, refund, reimbursement for expenses, compensation for damages, and any other remedies available under the written warranty or the Act (or rules thereunder); and a decision shall state a specified reasonable time for performance);
(2) Disclose to the warrantor its decision and the reasons therefor;
(3) If the decision would require action on the part of the warrantor, determine whether, and to what extent,
warrantor will abide by its decision; and
(4) Disclose to the consumer its decision, the reasons therefor, warrantor's intended actions (if the decision would require action on the part of the warrantor), and the information described in paragraph (g) of this section. For purposes of paragraph (d) of this section a dispute shall be deemed settled when the Mechanism has ascertained from the consumer that:
(i) The dispute has been settled to the consumer's satisfaction; and
(ii) The settlement contains a specified reasonable time for performance.
(e) The Mechanism may delay the performance of its duties under paragraph (d) of this section beyond the 40 day time limit:
(1) Where the period of delay is due solely to failure of a consumer to provide promptly his or her name and address, brand name and model number of the product involved, and a statement as to the nature of the defect or other complaint; or
(2) For a 7 day period in those cases where the consumer has made no attempt to seek redress directly from the warrantor.
(f) The Mechanism may allow an oral presentation by a party to a dispute (or a party's representative) only if:
(1) Both warrantor and consumer expressly agree to the presentation;
(2) Prior to agreement the Mechanism fully discloses to the consumer the following information:
(i) That the presentation by either party will take place only if both parties so agree, but that if they agree, and one party fails to appear at the agreed upon time and place, the presentation by the other party may still be allowed;
(ii) That the members will decide the dispute whether or not an oral presentation is made;
(iii) The proposed date, time and place for the presentation; and
(iv) A brief description of what will occur at the presentation including, if applicable, parties' rights to bring witnesses and/or counsel; and
(3) Each party has the right to be present during the other party's oral presentation. Nothing contained in this paragraph (b) of this section shall preclude the Mechanism from allowing an oral presentation by one party, if the other party fails to appear at the agreed upon time and place, as long as all of the requirements of this paragraph have been satisfied.
(g) The Mechanism shall inform the consumer, at the time of disclosure required in paragraph (d) of this section that:
(1) If he or she is dissatisfied with its decision or warrantor's intended actions, or eventual performance, legal remedies, including use of small claims court, may be pursued;
(2) The Mechanism's decision is admissible in evidence as provided in section 110(a)(3) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310(a)(3); and
(3) The consumer may obtain, at reasonable cost, copies of all Mechanism records relating to the consumer's dispute.
(h) If the warrantor has agreed to perform any obligations, either as part of a settlement agreed to after notification to the Mechanism of the dispute or as a result of a decision under paragraph (d) of this section, the Mechanism shall ascertain from the consumer within 10 working days of the date for performance whether performance has occurred.
(i) A requirement that a consumer resort to the Mechanism prior to commencement of an action under section 110(d) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310(d), shall be satisfied 40 days after notification to the Mechanism of the dispute or when the Mechanism completes all of its duties under paragraph (d) of this section, whichever occurs sooner. Except that, if the Mechanism delays performance of its paragraph (d) of this section duties as allowed by paragraph (e) of this section, the requirement that the consumer initially resort to the Mechanism shall not be satisfied until the period of delay allowed by paragraph (e) of this section has ended.
(j) Decisions of the Mechanism shall not be legally binding on any person. However, the warrantor shall act in good faith, as provided in § 703.2(g) of this part. In any civil action arising out of a warranty obligation and relating to a matter considered by the Mechanism, any decision of the Mechanism shall be admissible in evidence, as
provided in section 110(a)(3) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2310(a)(3).
[40 FR 60215, Dec. 31, 1975, as amended at 80 FR 42722, July 20, 2015]
§ 703.6
Recordkeeping.
(a) The Mechanism shall maintain records on each dispute referred to it which shall include:
(1) Name, address and telephone number of the consumer;
(2) Name, address, telephone number and contact person of the warrantor;
(3) Brand name and model number of the product involved;
(4) The date of receipt of the dispute and the date of disclosure to the consumer of the decision;
(5) All letters or other written documents submitted by either party;
(6) All other evidence collected by the Mechanism relating to the dispute, including summaries of relevant and material portions of telephone calls and meetings between the Mechanism and any other person (including consultants described in § 703.4(b) of this part);
(7) A summary of any relevant and material information presented by either party at an oral presentation;
(8) The decision of the members including information as to date, time and place of meeting, and the identity of members voting; or information on any other resolution;
(9) A copy of the disclosure to the parties of the decision;
(10) A statement of the warrantor's intended action(s);
(11) Copies of follow-up letters (or summaries of relevant and material portions of follow-up telephone calls) to the consumer, and responses thereto; and
(12) Any other documents and communications (or summaries of relevant and material portions of oral communications) relating to the dispute.
(b) The Mechanism shall maintain an index of each warrantor's disputes grouped under brand name and sub-grouped under product model.
(c) The Mechanism shall maintain an index for each warrantor as will show:
(1) All disputes in which the warrantor has promised some performance (either by settlement or in response to a Mechanism decision) and has failed to comply; and
(2) All disputes in which the warrantor has refused to abide by a Mechanism decision.
(d) The Mechanism shall maintain an index as will show all disputes delayed beyond 40 days.
(e) The Mechanism shall compile semi-annually and maintain statistics which show the number and percent of disputes in each of the following categories:
(1) Resolved by staff of the Mechanism and warrantor has complied;
(2) Resolved by staff of the Mechanism, time for compliance has occurred, and warrantor has not complied;
(3) Resolved by staff of the Mechanism and time for compliance has not yet occurred;
(4) Decided by members and warrantor has complied;
(5) Decided by members, time for compliance has occurred, and warrantor has not complied;
(6) Decided by members and time for compliance has not yet occurred;
(7) Decided by members adverse to the consumer;
(8) No jurisdiction;
(9) Decision delayed beyond 40 days under § 703.5(e)(1) of this part;
(10) Decision delayed beyond 40 days under § 703.5(e)(2) of this part;
(11) Decision delayed beyond 40 days for any other reason; and
(12) Pending decision.
(f) The Mechanism shall retain all records specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section for at least 4 years after final disposition of the dispute.
§ 703.7
Audits.
(a) The Mechanism shall have an audit conducted at least annually, to determine whether the Mechanism and its implementation are in compliance with this part. All records of the Mechanism required to be kept under § 703.6 of this part shall be available for audit.
(b) Each audit provided for in paragraph (a) of this section shall include at a minimum the following:
(1) Evaluation of warrantors' efforts to make consumers aware of the Mechanism's existence as required in § 703.2(d) of this part;
(2) Review of the indexes maintained pursuant to § 703.6 (b), (c), and (d) of this part; and
(3) Analysis of a random sample of disputes handled by the Mechanism to determine the following:
(i) Adequacy of the Mechanism's complaint and other forms, investigation, mediation and follow-up efforts, and other aspects of complaint handling; and
(ii) Accuracy of the Mechanism's statistical compilations under § 703.6(e) of this part. (For purposes of this subparagraph “analysis” shall include oral or written contact with the consumers involved in each of the disputes in the random sample.)
(c) A report of each audit under this section shall be submitted to the Federal Trade Commission, and shall be made available to any person at reasonable cost. The Mechanism may direct its auditor to delete names of parties to disputes, and identity of products involved, from the audit report.
(d) Auditors shall be selected by the Mechanism. No auditor may be involved with the Mechanism as a warrantor, sponsor or member, or employee or agent thereof, other than for purposes of the audit.
§ 703.8
Openness of records and proceedings.
(a) The statistical summaries specified in § 703.6(e) of this part shall be available to any person for inspection and copying.
(b) Except as provided under paragraphs (a) and (e) of this section, and paragraph (c) of § 703.7 of this part, all records of the Mechanism may be kept confidential, or made available only on such terms and conditions, or in such form, as the Mechanism shall permit.
(c) The policy of the Mechanism with respect to records made available at the Mechanism's option shall be set out in the procedures under § 703.5(a) of this part; the policy shall be applied uniformly to all requests for access to or copies of such records.
(d) Meetings of the members to hear and decide disputes shall be open to observers on reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms. The identity of the parties and products involved in disputes need not be disclosed at meetings.
(e) Upon request the Mechanism shall provide to either party to a dispute:
(1) Access to all records relating to the dispute; and
(2) Copies of any records relating to the dispute, at reasonable cost.
(f) The Mechanism shall make available to any person upon request, information relating to the qualifications of Mechanism staff and members.

# SUBCHAPTER H—RULES, REGULATIONS, STATEMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS UNDER THE HART-SCOTT-RODINO ANTITRUST IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 1976
Pt. 801

# PART 801—COVERAGE RULES
Sec.
801.1
Definitions.
801.2
Acquiring and acquired persons.
801.3
Activities in or affecting commerce.
801.4
Secondary acquisitions.
801.10
Value of voting securities, non-corporate interests and assets to be acquired.
801.11
Annual net sales and total assets.
801.12
Calculating percentage of voting securities.
801.13
Aggregation of voting securities, assets and non-corporate interests.
801.14
Aggregate total amount of voting securities and assets.
801.15
Aggregation of voting securities, non-corporate interests and assets the acquisition of which was exempt.
801.20
Acquisitions subsequent to exceeding threshold.
801.21
Securities and cash not considered assets when acquired.
801.30
Tender offers and acquisitions of voting securities and non-corporate interests from third parties.
801.31
Acquisitions of voting securities by offerees in tender offers.
801.32
Conversion and acquisition.
801.33
Consummation of an acquisition by acceptance of tendered shares of payment.
801.40
Formation of joint venture or other corporations.
801.50
Formation of unincorporated entities.
801.90
Transactions or devices for avoidance.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 18a(d).
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89337, Nov. 12, 2024.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89337, Nov. 12, 2024, the authority citation to part 801 was revised, effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 18a(d); 15 U.S.C. 18b.

# Source:
43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 801.1
Definitions.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89337, Nov. 12, 2024.
When used in the act and these rules—
(a)(1)
Person.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 801.12, the term
person
means an ultimate parent entity and all entities which it controls directly or indirectly.

# Examples:
1. In the case of corporations, “person” encompasses the entire corporate structure, including all parent corporations, subsidiaries and divisions (whether consolidated or unconsolidated, and whether incorporated or unincorporated), and all related corporations under common control with any of the foregoing.
2. Corporations A and B are each directly controlled by the same foreign state. They are not included within the same “person,” although the corporations are under common control, because the foreign state which controls them is not an “entity” (see § 801.1(a)(2)). Corporations A and B*
are the ultimate parent entities within persons “A”, and “B” which include any entities each may control.
* Throughout the examples to the rules, persons are designated (“A”, “B,” etc.) with quotation marks, and entities are designated (A, B, etc.) without quotation marks.
3. Since a natural person is an entity (see § 801.1(a)(2)), a natural person and a corporation which he or she controls are part of the same “person.” If that natural person controls two otherwise separate corporations, both corporations and the natural person are all part of the same “person.”
4. See the example to § 801.2(a).
(2)
Entity.
The term
entity
means any natural person, corporation, company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate of a deceased natural person, foundation, fund, institution, society, union, or club, whether incorporated or not, wherever located and of whatever citizenship, or any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or similar official or any liquidating agent for any of the foregoing, in his or her capacity as such; or any joint venture or other corporation which has not been formed but the acquisition of the voting securities or other interest in which, if already formed, would require notification under the act and these rules:
Provided, however,
that the term entity shall not include any foreign state, foreign government, or agency thereof (other than a corporation or unincorporated entity engaged in commerce), nor the United States, any of the
States thereof, or any political subdivision or agency of either (other than a corporation or unincorporated entity engaged in commerce).
(3)
Ultimate parent entity.
The term
ultimate parent entity
means an entity which is not controlled by any other entity.

# Examples:
1. If corporation A holds 100 percent of the stock of subsidiary B, and B holds 75 percent of the stock of its subsidiary C, corporation A is the ultimate parent entity, since it controls subsidiary B directly and subsidiary C indirectly, and since it is the entity within the person which is not controlled by any other entity.
2. If corporation A is controlled by natural person D, natural person D is the ultimate parent entity.
3. P and Q are the ultimate parent entities within persons “P” and “Q.” If P and Q each own 50 percent of the voting securities of R, then P and Q are both ultimate parents of R, and R is part of both persons “P” and “Q.”
(b)
Control.
The term
control
(as used in the terms
control(s), controlling, controlled by
and
under common control with
) means:
(1)
Either.
(i) Holding 50 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of an issuer or
(ii) In the case of an unincorporated entity, having the right to 50 percent or more of the profits of the entity, or having the right in the event of dissolution to 50 percent or more of the assets of the entity; or
(2) Having the contractual power presently to designate 50 percent or more of the directors of a for-profit or not-for-profit corporation, or 50 percent or more of the trustees in the case of trusts that are irrevocable and/or in which the settlor does not retain a reversionary interest.

# Examples:
1. Corporation A holds 100 percent of the stock of corporation B, 75 percent of the stock of corporation C, 50 percent of the stock of corporation D, and 30 percent of the stock of corporation E. Corporation A controls corporations B, C and D, but not corporation E. Corporation A is the ultimate parent entity of a person comprised of corporations A, B, C and D, and each of these corporations (but not corporation E) is “included within the person.”
2. A statutory limited partnership agreement provides as follows: The general partner “A” is entitled to 50 percent of the partnership profits, “B” is entitled to 40 percent of the profits and “C” is entitled to 10 percent of the profits. Upon dissolution, “B” is entitled to 75 percent of the partnership assets and “C” is entitled to 25 percent of those assets. All limited and general partners are entitled to vote on the following matters: the dissolution of the partnership, the transfer of assets not in the ordinary course of business, any change in the nature of the business, and the removal of the general partner. The interest of each partner is evidenced by an ownership certificate that is transferable under the terms of the partnership agreement and is subject to the Securities Act of 1933. For purposes of these rules, control of this partnership is determined by paragraph (1)(ii) of this section. Although partnership interests may be securities and have some voting rights attached to them, they do not entitle the owner of that interest to vote for a corporate “director” as required by § 801.1(f)(1). Thus control of a partnership is not determined on the basis of either paragraph (1)(i) or (2) of this section. Consequently, “A” is deemed to control the partnership because of its right to 50 percent of the partnership's profits. “B” is also deemed to control the partnership because it is entitled to 75 percent of the partnership's assets upon dissolution.
3. “A” is a nonprofit charitable foundation that has formed a partnership joint venture with “B,” a nonprofit university, to establish C, a nonprofit hospital corporation that does not issue voting securities. Pursuant to its charter “A” and “B” are each entitled to appoint three of C's six directors. “A” and “B” would each be deemed to control C, pursuant to § 801.1(b)(2) because each is deemed to have the contractual power presently to designate 50 percent or more of the directors of a not-for-profit corporation.
4. “A” is entitled to 50 percent of the profits of partnership B and 50 percent of the profits of partnership C. B and C form a partnership E with “D” in which each entity has a right to one-third of the profits. When E acquires company X, “A” must report the transaction (assuming it is otherwise reportable). Pursuant to § 801.1(b)(1)(ii), E is deemed to be controlled by “A,” even though “A” ultimately will receive only one-third of the profits of E. Because B and C are considered as part of “A,” the rules attribute all profits to which B and C are entitled (two-thirds of the profits of E in this example) to “A.”
5. A is the settlor of an irrevocable trust in which it does not retain a reversionary interest in the corpus of the trust. A is entitled under the trust indenture to designate four of the eight trustees of the trust. A controls the trust pursuant to § 801.1(b)(2) and is deemed to hold the assets that constitute the corpus of the trust. Note that the right
to designate 50 percent or more of the trustees of a business trust that has equity holders entitled to profits or assets upon dissolution of the business trust does not constitute control. Such business trusts are treated as unincorporated entities and control is determined pursuant to § 801.1(b)(1)(ii).
(c)
Hold.
(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) (2) through (8) of this section, the term
hold
(as used in the terms
hold(s), holding, holder
and
held
) means beneficial ownership, whether direct, or indirect through fiduciaries, agents, controlled entities or other means.

# Example:
If a stockbroker has stock in “street name” for the account of a natural person, only the natural person (who has beneficial ownership) and not the stockbroker (which may have record title) “holds” that stock.
(2) The holdings of spouses and their minor children shall be holdings of each of them.
(3) Except for a common trust fund or collective investment fund within the meaning of 12 CFR 9.18(a) (both of which are hereafter referred to in this paragraph as “collective investment funds”), and any revocable trust or an irrevocable trust in which the settlor retains a reversionary interest in the corpus, a trust, including a pension trust, shall hold all assets and voting securities constituting the corpus of the trust.

# Example:
Under this paragraph the trust—and not the trustee—“holds” the voting securities and assets constituting the corpus of any irrevocable trust (in which the settlor retains no reversionary interest, and which is not a collective investment fund). Therefore, the trustee need not aggregate its holdings of any other assets or voting securities with the holdings of the trust for purposes of determining whether the requirements of the act apply to an acquisition by the trust. Similarly, the trustee, if making an acquisition for its own account, need not aggregate its holdings with those of any trusts for which it serves as trustee. (However, the trustee must aggregate any collective investment funds which it administers; see paragraph (c)(6) of this section.)
(4) The assets and voting securities constituting the corpus of a revocable trust or the corpus of an irrevocable trust in which the settlor(s) retain(s) a reversionary interest in the corpus shall be holdings of the settlor(s) of such trust.
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, beneficiaries of a trust, including a pension trust or a collective investment fund, shall not hold any assets or voting securities constituting the corpus of such trust.
(6) A bank or trust company which administers one or more collective investment funds shall hold all assets and voting securities constituting the corpus of each such fund.

# Example:
Suppose A, a bank or trust company, administers collective investment funds W, X, Y and Z. Whenever person “A” is to make an acquisition, whether of not on behalf of one or more of the funds, it must aggregate the holdings of W, X, Y and Z in determining whether the requirements of the act apply to the acquisition.
(7) An insurance company shall hold all assets and voting securities held for the benefit of any general account of, or any separate account administered by, such company.
(8) A person holds all assets and voting securities held by the entities included within it; in addition to its own holding, an entity holds all assets and voting securities held by the entities which it controls directly or indirectly.
(d)(1)
Affiliate.
An entity is an affiliate of a person if it is controlled, directly or indirectly, by the ultimate parent entity of such person.
(2)
Associate.
For purposes of Items 6 and 7 of the Form, an associate of an acquiring person shall be an entity that is not an affiliate of such person but:
(A) Has the right, directly or indirectly, to manage the operations or investment decisions of an acquiring entity (a “managing entity”); or
(B) Has its operations or investment decisions, directly or indirectly, managed by the acquiring person; or
(C) Directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with a managing entity; or
(D) Directly or indirectly manages, is managed by, or is under common operational or investment decision management with a managing entity.

# Examples:
1. ABC Investment Group has organized a number of investment partnerships. Each of the partnerships is its own ultimate parent, but ABC makes the investment decisions for all of the partnerships. One of the partnerships intends to make a reportable acquisition. For purposes of Items 6(c) and 7, each of the other investment partnerships, and ABC Investment Group itself are associates of the partnership that is the acquiring person. In response to Item 6(c)(i), the acquiring person will disclose any of its 5 percent or greater minority holdings that generate revenues in any of the same NAICS codes as the acquired entity(s) in the reportable transaction. In Item 6(c)(ii) it would report any 5 percent or greater minority holdings of its associates in the acquired entity(s) and in any entities that generate revenues in any of the same NAICS codes as the acquired entity(s). In Item 7, the acquiring person will indicate whether there are any NAICS code overlaps between the acquired entity(s) in the reportable transaction, on the one hand, and the acquiring person and all of its associates, on the other.
2. XYZ Corporation is its own ultimate parent and intends to make a reportable acquisition. Pursuant to a management contract, Fund MNO has the right to manage the investments of XYZ Corporation. For the HSR filing by XYZ Corporation, Fund MNO is an associate of XYZ, as is any other entity that either controls, or is controlled by, or manages or is managed by Fund MNO or is under common control or common investment management with Fund MNO.
3. EFG Investment Group has the contractual power to determine the investments of PRS Corporation, which is its own ultimate parent. Natural person Mr. X, who is not an employee of EFG Investment Group, has been contracted by EFG Investment Group as its investment manager. When PRS Corporation makes an acquisition, its associates include (i) EFG Investment Group, (ii) any entity over which EFG Investment Group has investment authority, (iii) any entity that controls, or is controlled by, EFG Investment Group, (iv) Natural person Mr. X, (v) any entity over which Natural person Mr. X has investment management authority, and (vi) any entity which is controlled by Natural person Mr. X, directly or indirectly.
4. CORP1 controls GP1 and GP2, the sole general partners of private equity funds LP1 and LP2 respectively. LP1 controls GP3, the sole general partner of MLP1, a newly formed master limited partnership which is its own ultimate parent entity. LP2 controls GP4, the sole general partner of MLP2, another master limited partnership that is its own ultimate parent entity and which owns and operates a natural gas pipeline. In addition, GP4 holds 25 percent of the voting securities of CORP2, which also owns and operates a natural gas pipeline.
MLP1 is acquiring 100 percent of the membership interests of LLC1, also the owner and operator of a natural gas pipeline. MLP2, CORP2 and LLC1 all derive revenues in the same NAICS code (Pipeline Transportation of Natural Gas). All of the entities under common investment management of CORP1, including GP4 and MLP2, are associates of MLP1, the acquiring person.
In Item 7 of its HSR filing, MLP1 would identify MLP2 as an associate that has an overlap in pipeline transportation of natural gas with LLC1, the acquired person. Because GP4 does not control CORP2 it would not be listed in Item 7, however, GP4 would be listed in Item 6(c)(ii) as an associate that holds 25 percent of the voting securities of CORP2. In this example, even though there is no direct overlap between the acquiring person (MLP1) and the acquired person (LLC1), there is an overlap reported for an associate (MLP2) of the acquiring person in Item 7.
5. LLC is the investment manager for and ultimate parent entity of general partnerships GP1 and GP2. GP1 is the general partner of LP1, a limited partnership that holds 30 percent of the voting securities of CORP1. GP2 is the general partner of LP2, which holds 55 percent of the voting securities of CORP1. GP2 also directly holds 2 percent of the voting securities of CORP1. LP1 is acquiring 100 percent of the voting securities of CORP2. CORP1 and CORP2 both derive revenues in the same NAICS code (Industrial Gas Manufacturing).
All of the entities under common investment management of the managing entity LLC, including GP1, GP2, LP2 and CORP1 are associates of LP1. In Item 6(c)(i) of its HSR filing, LP1 would report its own holding of 30 percent of the voting securities of CORP1. It would not report the 55 percent holding of LP2 in Item 6(c)(ii) because it is greater than 50 percent. It also would not report GP2's 2 percent holding because it is less than 5 percent. In Item 7, LP1 would identify both LP2 and CORP1 as associates that derive revenues in the same NAICS code as CORP2.
6. LLC is the investment manager for GP1 and GP2 which are the general partners of limited partnerships LP1 and LP2, respectively. LLC holds no equity interests in either general partnership but manages their investments and the investments of the limited partnerships by contract. LP1 is newly formed and its own ultimate parent entity. It plans to acquire 100 percent of the voting securities of CORP1, which derives revenues in the NAICS code for Consumer Lending. LP2 controls CORP2, which derives revenues in the same NAICS code. All of the entities under the common management of LLC, including LP2 and CORP2, are associates of
LP1. For purposes of Item 7, LP1 would report LP2 and CORP2 as associates that derive revenues in the NAICS code that overlaps with CORP1. Even though the investment manager (LLC) holds no equity interest in GP1 or GP2, the contractual arrangement with them makes them associates of LP1 through common management.
ER19JY11.100
7. Corporation A is its own ultimate parent entity and is making an acquisition of Corporation B. Although Corporation A is operationally managed by its officers and its investments, including the acquisition of Corporation B, are managed by its directors, neither the officers nor directors are considered associates of A.
8. Limited partnership A is an investment partnership that is making an acquisition. LLC B has no equity interest in A, but has a contract to manage its investments for a fee. LLC B has an investment committee comprised of twelve of its employees that makes the actual investment decisions. LLC B is an associate of A but none of the twelve employees are associates of A, as LLC B is a managing entity and the twelve individuals are merely its employees. Contrast this with example 3 where a managing entity, EFG, is itself managed by another entity, Mr. X, who is thus an associate.
9. GP is the general partner of FUND. GP has contracted with LLC to act as an investment advisor with respect to FUND's investments. In this role, LLC acts as a consultant who makes recommendations to GP on what portfolio companies FUND should invest in. The recommendations are non-binding and GP is the only entity that has the authority to exercise investment discretion over FUND's acquisitions of interests in portfolio companies. In this example, GP is an associate of FUND, while LLC is not.
10. GP A is the general partner and investment manager of FUND A1. Mr. X is a principal in the A family of private equity funds and has the contractual right to veto certain proposed actions of GP A and FUND A1, for example, divestitures of stock that would result in a change of control in a portfolio company. His contractual right to veto certain proposed actions does not constitute managing operations. Mr. X does not have the authority under the contract to veto proposed investments of FUND A1 directed by GP A or to direct GP A to authorize investments by FUND A1. In this example, GP A is an associate of FUND A1, while Mr. X is not.
11. LLC is the general partner of LP and has entered into a management contract to exercise investment discretion over LP's investments in portfolio companies as well as to provide certain other administrative services for LP. Mr. Y is the managing member of LLC and as such is the person who actually makes the investment decisions on behalf of LLC. Mr. Y has no management contract with either LLC or LP. In this example, LLC is an associate of LP, while Mr. Y is not. Compare with Example 7 where officers and directors of a corporation are not associates of the corporation.
12. GP is the general partner of LP and has entered into a management contract to exercise investment discretion over LP's investments in portfolio companies. GP has entered into a contract with CORP, under which CORP will manage building maintenance and certain back office functions (e.g., maintenance of phones and computers, accounting, IT and human resources) for LP. GP is an associate of LP because it manages LP's investments. However, the management services provided by CORP do not constitute operational management, therefore, CORP is not an associate of LP.
(e)(1)(i)
United States person.
The term
United States person
means a person the ultimate parent entity of which—
(A) Is incorporated in the United States, is organized under the laws of the United States or has its principal offices within the United States; or
(B) If a natural person, either is a citizen of the United States or resides in the United States.
(ii)
United States issuer.
The term
United States issuer
means an issuer which is incorporated in the United States, is organized under the laws of the United States or has its principal offices within the United States.
(2)(i)
Foreign person.
The term
foreign person
means a person the ultimate parent entity of which—
(A) Is not incorporated in the United States, is not organized under the laws of the United States and does not have its principal offices within the United States; or
(B) If a natural person, neither is a citizen of the United States nor resides in the United States.
(ii)
Foreign issuer.
The term
foreign issuer
means an issuer which is not incorporated in the United States, is not organized under the laws of the United States and does not have its principal offices within the United States.
(f)(1)(i)
Voting securities.
The term voting securities means any securities which at present or upon conversion entitle the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of the issuer, or of an entity included within the same person as the issuer.
(ii)
Non-corporate interest.
The term “non-corporate interest” means an interest in any unincorporated entity which gives the holder the right to any profits of the entity or in the event of dissolution of that entity the right to any of its assets after payment of its debts. These unincorporated entities include, but are not limited to, general partnerships, limited partnerships,
limited liability partnerships, limited liability companies, cooperatives and business trusts; but these unincorporated entities do not include trusts that are irrevocable and/or in which the settlor does not retain a reversionary interest and any interest in such a trust is not a non-corporate interest as defined by this rule.
(2)
Convertible voting security.
The term
convertible voting security
means a voting security which presently does not entitle its owner or holder to vote for directors of any entity.
(3)
Conversion.
The term
conversion
means the exercise of a right inherent in the ownership or holding of particular voting securities to exchange such securities for securities which presently entitle the owner or holder to vote for directors of the issuer or of any entity included within the same person as the issuer.

# Examples:
1. The acquisition of convertible debentures which are convertible into common stock is an acquisition of “voting securities.” However, § 802.31 exempts the acquisition of such securities from the requirements of the act, provided that they have no present voting rights.
2. Options and warrants are also “voting securities” for purposes of the act, because they can be exchanged for securities with present voting rights. Section 802.31 exempts the acquisition of options and warrants as well, since they do not themselves have present voting rights and hence are convertible voting securities. Notification may be required prior to exercising options and warrants, however.
3. Assume that X has issued preferred shares which presently entitle the holder to vote for directors of X, and that these shares are convertible into common shares of X. Because the preferred shares confer a present right to vote for directors of X, they are “voting securities.” (See § 801.1(f)(1).) They are not “convertible voting securities,” however, because the definition of that term excludes securities which confer a present right to vote for directors of any entity. (See § 801.1(f)(2).) Thus, an acquisition of these preferred shares issued by X would not be exempt as an acquisition of “convertible voting securities.” (See § 802.31.) If the criteria in section 7A(a) are met, an acquisition of X's preferred shares would be subject to the reporting and waiting period requirements of the Act. Moreover, the conversion of these preferred shares into common shares of X would also be potentially reportable, since the holder would be exercising a right to exchange particular voting securities for different voting securities having a present right to vote for directors of the issuer. Because this exchange would be a “conversion,” § 801.30 would apply. (See § 801.30(a)(6).)
(g)(1)
Tender offer.
The term
tender offer
means any offer to purchase voting securities which is a tender offer within the meaning of section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78n.
(2)
Cash tender offer.
The term
cash tender offer
means a tender offer in which cash is the only consideration offered to the holders of the voting securities to be acquired.
(3)
Non-cash tender offer.
The term
non-cash tender offer
means any tender offer which is not a cash tender offer.
(h)
Notification threshold.
The term “notification threshold” means:
(1) An aggregate total amount of voting securities of the acquired person valued at greater than $50 million (as adjusted) but less than $100 million (as adjusted);
(2) An aggregate total amount of voting securities of the acquired person valued at $100 million (as adjusted) or greater but less than $500 million (as adjusted);
(3) An aggregate total amount of voting securities of the acquired person valued at $500 million (as adjusted) or greater;
(4) Twenty-five percent of the outstanding voting securities of an issuer if valued at greater than $1 billion (as adjusted); or
(5) Fifty percent of the outstanding voting securities of an issuer if valued at greater than $50 million (as adjusted).
(i)(1)
Solely for the purpose of investment.
Voting securities are held or acquired “solely for the purpose of investment” if the person holding or acquiring such voting securities has no intention of participating in the formulation, determination, or direction of the basic business decisions of the issuer.

# Example:
If a person holds stock “solely for the purpose of investment” and thereafter decides to influence or participate in management of the issuer of that stock, the stock is no longer held “solely for the purpose of investment.”
(2)
Investment assets.
The term
investment assets
means cash, deposits in financial institutions, other money market instruments, and instruments evidencing government obligations.
(j)
Engaged in manufacturing.
A person is engaged in manufacturing if it produces and derives annual sales or revenues in excess of $1 million from products within industries in Sectors 31-33 as coded by the North American Industry Classification System (2002 Edition) published by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget.
(k)
United States.
The term
United States
shall include the several States, the territories, possessions, and commonwealths of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
(l)
Commerce.
The term
commerce
shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in section 1 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 12, or section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 44.
(m)
The act.
References to “the act” refer to Section 7A of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 18a, as added by section 201 of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, Public Law 94-435, 90 Stat. 1390, and as amended by Public Law 106-553, 114 Stat. 2762, and Public Law 117-328, Div. GG, 136 Stat. 4459. References to “Section 7A()” refer to subsections of Section 7A of the Clayton Act. References to “this section” refer to the section of these rules in which the term appears.
(n)
(as adjusted).
The parenthetical “(as adjusted)” refers to the adjusted values published in the
Federal Register
document titled “Revised Jurisdictional Thresholds and Fee Amounts under Section 7A of the Clayton Act.” This
Federal Register
document will be published in January of each year and the values contained therein will be effective as of the effective date published in the
Federal Register
document and will remain effective until superseded in the next calendar year. The document will also be available at
https://www.ftc.gov.
Such adjusted values will be calculated in accordance with Section 7A(a)(2)(A) and the statutory note to Section 7A.
(o)
All commercially significant rights.
For purposes of paragraph (g) of § 801.2, the term all commercially significant rights means the exclusive rights to a patent that allow only the recipient of the exclusive patent rights to use the patent in a particular therapeutic area (or specific indication within a therapeutic area).
(p)
Limited manufacturing rights.
For purposes of paragraph (o) of this section and paragraph (g) of § 801.2, the term limited manufacturing rights means the rights retained by a patent holder to manufacture the product(s) covered by a patent when all other exclusive rights to the patent within a therapeutic area (or specific indication within a therapeutic area) have been transferred to the recipient of the patent rights. The retained right to manufacture is limited in that it is retained by the patent holder solely to provide the recipient of the patent rights with product(s) covered by the patent (which either the patent holder alone or both the patent holder and the recipient may manufacture).
(q)
Co-rights.
For purposes of paragraph (o) of this section and paragraph (g) of § 801.2, the term co-rights means shared rights retained by the patent holder to assist the recipient of the exclusive patent rights in developing and commercializing the product covered by the patent. These co-rights include, but are not limited to, co-development, co-promotion, co-marketing and co-commercialization.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34429, July 29, 1983; 52 FR 20063, May 29, 1987; 66 FR 8687, Feb. 1, 2001; 66 FR 23565, May 9, 2001; 68 FR 2430, Jan. 17, 2003; 70 FR 4990, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11510, Mar. 8, 2005; 70 FR 73372, Dec. 12, 2005; 70 FR 77313, Dec. 30, 2005; 76 FR 42479, July 19, 2011; 78 FR 68712, Nov. 15, 2013; 83 FR 32770, July 16, 2018; 88 FR 5750, Jan. 30, 2023; 89 FR 7611, Feb. 5, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89337, Nov. 12, 2024, § 801.1 was amended by revising examples 1, 4, 5, and 6 in paragraph (d)(2) and by adding paragraph (r), effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 801.1
Definitions.
(d) * * *
(2) * * *

# Examples:
1. ABC Investment Group has organized a number of investment partnerships. Each of the partnerships is its own ultimate parent, but ABC makes the investment decisions for all of the partnerships. One of the partnerships intends to make a reportable acquisition. For purposes of the Notification and Report Form, each of the other investment partnerships, and ABC Investment Group itself, are associates of the partnership that is the acquiring person. In the Minority-Held Entity Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form, the acquiring person will disclose any of its 5 percent or greater minority holdings that generate revenues in any of the same NAICS codes as the acquired entity(s) in the reportable transaction. In this same section, the acquiring person would also report any 5 percent or greater minority holdings of its associates in the acquired entity(s) and in any entities that generate revenues in any of the same NAICS codes as the acquired entity(s). In the Controlled Entity Geographic Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form, the acquiring person will indicate whether there are any NAICS code overlaps between the acquired entity(s) in the reportable transaction, on the one hand, and the acquiring person and all of its associates, on the other.
* * * * *
4. CORP1 controls GP1 and GP2, the sole general partners of private equity funds LP1 and LP2 respectively. LP1 controls GP3, the sole general partner of MLP1, a newly formed master limited partnership which is its own ultimate parent entity. LP2 controls GP4, the sole general partner of MLP2, another master limited partnership that is its own ultimate parent entity and which owns and operates a natural gas pipeline. In addition, GP4 holds 25 percent of the voting securities of CORP2, which also owns and operates a natural gas pipeline.
MLP1 is acquiring 100 percent of the membership interests of LLC1, also the owner and operator of a natural gas pipeline. MLP2, CORP2 and LLC1 all derive revenues in the same NAICS code (Pipeline Transportation of Natural Gas). All of the entities under common investment management of CORP1, including GP4 and MLP2, are associates of MLP1, the acquiring person.
In the Controlled Entity Geographic Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form, MLP1 would identify MLP2 as an associate that has an overlap in pipeline transportation of natural gas with LLC1, the acquired person. Because GP4 does not control CORP2 it would not be listed in this section, however, GP4 would be listed in the Minority-Held Entity Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form as an associate that holds 25 percent of the voting securities of CORP2. In this example, even though there is no direct overlap between the acquiring person (MLP1) and the acquired person (LLC1), there is an overlap reported for an associate (MLP2) of the acquiring person in the Controlled Entity Geographic Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form.
5. LLC is the investment manager for and ultimate parent entity of general partnerships GP1 and GP2. GP1 is the general partner of LP1, a limited partnership that holds 30 percent of the voting securities of CORP1. GP2 is the general partner of LP2, which holds 55 percent of the voting securities of CORP1. GP2 also directly holds 2 percent of the voting securities of CORP1. LP1 is acquiring 100 percent of the voting securities of CORP2. CORP1 and CORP2 both derive revenues in the same NAICS code (Industrial Gas Manufacturing).
All the entities under common investment management of the managing entity LLC, including GP1, GP2, LP2 and CORP1 are associates of LP1. In Minority-Held Entity Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form, LP1 would report its own holding of 30 percent of the voting securities of CORP1. It would not report the 55 percent holding of LP2 in Minority-Held Entity Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form because it is greater than 50 percent. It also would not report GP2's 2 percent holding because it is less than 5 percent. In the Controlled Entity Geographic Overlaps section, LP1 would identify both LP2 and CORP1 as associates that derive revenues in the same NAICS code as CORP2.
6. LLC is the investment manager for GP1 and GP2 which are the general partners of limited partnerships LP1 and LP2, respectively. LLC holds no equity interests in either general partnership but manages their investments and the investments of the limited partnerships by contract. LP1 is newly formed and its own ultimate parent entity. It plans to acquire 100 percent of the voting securities of CORP1, which derives revenues in the NAICS code for Consumer Lending. LP2 controls CORP2, which derives revenues in the same NAICS code. All of the entities under the common management of LLC, including LP2 and CORP2, are associates of LP1. For purposes of the Controlled Entity Geographic Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form, LP1 would report LP2 and CORP2 as associates that derive revenues in the NAICS code that overlaps with CORP1. Even though the investment manager (LLC) holds no equity interest in GP1 or GP2, the contractual arrangement with them makes them associates of LP1 through common management.
(r)(1)
Foreign entity or government of concern.
The term
foreign entity or government of concern
means:
(i) An entity that is a foreign entity of concern as that term is defined in section 40207 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (42 U.S.C. 18741(a)(5)); or
(ii) A government, or an agency thereof, of a foreign country that is a covered nation as that term is defined in section 40207 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (42 U.S.C. 18741(a)(5)(C)).
(2)
Subsidy.
The term
subsidy
has the meaning given to the term in part IV of title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1677(5)(B)).
§ 801.2
Acquiring and acquired persons.
(a) Any person which, as a result of an acquisition, will hold voting securities or assets, either directly or indirectly, or through fiduciaries, agents, or other entities acting on behalf of such person, is an acquiring person.

# Example:
Assume that corporations A and B, which are each ultimate parent entitles of their respective “persons,” created a joint venture, corporation V, and that each holds half of V's shares. Therefore, A and B each control V (see § 801.1(b)), and V is included within two persons, “A” and “B.” Under this section, if V is to acquire corporation X, both “A” and “B” are acquiring persons.
(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 801.12, the person(s) within which the entity whose assets or voting securities are being acquired is included, is an acquired person.

# Examples:
1. Assume that person “Q” will acquire voting securities of corporation X held by “P” and that X is not included within person “P.” Under this section, the acquired person is the person within which X is included, and is not “P.”
2. In the example to paragraph (a) of this section, if V were to be acquired by X, then both “A” and “B” would be acquired persons.
(c) For purposes of the act and these rules, a person may be an acquiring person and an acquired person with respect to separate acquisitions which comprise a single transaction.
(d)(1)(i) Mergers and consolidations are transactions subject to the act and shall be treated as acquisitions of voting securities.
(ii) In a merger, the person which, after consummation, will include the corporation in existence prior to consummation which is designated as the surviving corporation in the plan, agreement, or certificate of merger required to be filed with State authorities to effectuate the transaction shall be deemed to have made an acquisition of voting securities.
(2)(i) Any person party to a merger or consolidation is an acquiring person if, as a result of the transaction, such person will hold any assets or voting securities which it did not hold prior to the transaction.
(ii) Any person party to a merger or consolidation is an acquired person if, as a result of the transaction, the assets or voting securities of any entity included within such person will be held by any other person.
(iii) All persons party to a transaction as a result of which all parties will lose their separate pre-acquisition identities or will become wholly owned subsidiaries of a newly formed entity shall be both acquiring and acquired persons. This includes any combination of corporations and unincorporated entities consolidating into any newly formed entity. In such transactions, each consolidating entity is deemed to be acquiring all of the voting securities (in the case of a corporation) or interests (in the case of an unincorporated entity) of each of the others.

# Examples:
1. Corporation A (the ultimate parent entity included within person “A”) proposes to acquire Y, a wholly-owned subsidiary of B (the ultimate parent entity included within person “B”). The transaction is to be carried out by merging Y into X, a wholly-owned subsidiary of A, with X surviving, and by distributing the assets of X to B, the only shareholder of Y. The assets of X consist solely of cash and the voting securities of C, an entity unrelated to “A” or “B”. Since X is designated the surviving corporation in the plan or agreement of merger or consolidation and since X will be included in “A” after consummation of the transaction, “A” will be deemed to have made an acquisition of voting securities. In this acquisition, “A” is an acquiring person because it will hold assets or voting securities it did not hold prior to the transaction, and “B” is an acquired person because the assets or the voting securities of an entity previously included within it will be held by A as a result of the acquisition. B will hold the cash and voting securities of C as a result of the transaction, but since § 801.21 applies, this acquisition is not reportable. “A” is therefore an acquiring person only, and “B” is an acquired person only. “B” may, however, have a separate reporting obligation as an acquiring person in a separate transaction involving the voting securities of C.
2. In the above example, suppose the consideration for Y consists of $8 million worth of the voting securities of A. With regard to the transfer of this consideration, “B” is an acquiring person because it will hold voting securities it did not previously hold, and “A” is an acquired person because its voting securities will be held by B. Since these voting securities are worth less than $50 million (as adjusted), the acquisition of these securities is not reportable. “A” will therefore report as an acquiring person only and “B” as an acquired person only.
3. In the above example, suppose that, as consideration for Y, A transfers to B a manufacturing plant valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). “B” is thus an acquiring person and “A” an acquired person in a reportable acquisition of assets. “A” and “B” will each report as both an acquiring and an acquired person in this transaction because each occupies each role in a reportable acquisition.
4. Corporations A (the ultimate parent entity in person “A”) and B (the ultimate parent entity in person “B”) propose to consolidate into C, a newly formed corporation. All shareholders of A and B will receive shares of C, and both A and B will lose their separate pre-acquisition identities. “A” and “B” are both acquiring and acquired persons because they are parties to a transaction in which all parties lose their separate pre-acquisition identities
5. Partnership A and Corporation B form a new LLC in which they combine their businesses. A and B cease to exist and partners of A and shareholders of B receive membership interests in the new LLC. For purposes of determining reportability, A is deemed to be acquiring 100 percent of the voting securities of B and B is deemed to be acquiring 100 percent of the interests of A. Pursuant to § 803.9(b) of this chapter, even if such a transaction consists of two reportable acquisitions, only one filing fee is required.
(e) Whenever voting securities or assets are to be acquired from an acquiring person in connection with an acquisition, the acquisition of voting securities or assets shall be separately subject to the act.
(f)(1)(i) In an acquisition of non-corporate interests which results in an acquiring person controlling the entity, that person is deemed to hold all of the assets of the entity as a result of the acquisition. The acquiring person is the person acquiring control of the entity and the acquired person is the pre-acquisition ultimate parent entity of the entity.
(ii) The value of an acquisition described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section is determined in accordance with § 801.10(d).
(2) Any contribution of assets or voting securities to an existing unincorporated entity or to any successor thereof is deemed an acquisition of such voting securities or assets by the ultimate parent entity of that entity and is not subject to § 801.50.

# Examples:
1. A, B and C each hold 33
1/3
percent of the interests in Partnership X. D contributes assets valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) to X and as a result D receives 40 percent of the interests in X and A, B and C are each reduced to 20 percent. Partnership X is deemed to be acquiring the assets from D, in a transaction which may be reportable. This is not treated as a formation of a new partnership. Because no person will control Partnership X, no additional filing is required by any of the four partners.
2. LLC X is its own ultimate parent entity. A contributes a manufacturing plant valued in excess of $200 million (as adjusted) to X which issues new interests to A resulting in A having a 50% interest in X. A is acquiring non-corporate interests which confer control of X and therefore will file as an acquiring person. Because A held the plant prior to the transaction and continues to hold it through its acquisition of control of LLC X after the transaction is completed no acquisition of the plant has occurred and LLC X is therefore not an acquiring person.
(3) Any person who acquires control of an existing not-for-profit corporation which has no outstanding voting securities is deemed to be acquiring all of the assets of that corporation.

# Example:
A becomes the sole corporate member of not-for-profit corporation B and accordingly has the right to designate all of the directors of B. A is deemed to be acquiring all of the assets of B as a result.
(g) Transfers of patent rights within NAICS Industry Group 3254.
(1) This paragraph applies only to patents covering products whose manufacture and sale would generate revenues in NAICS Industry Group 3254, including:
325411 Medical and Botanical Manufacturing
325412 Pharmaceutical Preparation Manufacturing
325413 In-Vitro Diagnostic Substance Manufacturing
325414 Biological Product (except Diagnostic) Manufacturing
(2) The transfer of patent rights covered by this paragraph constitutes an asset acquisition; and
(3) Patent rights are transferred if and only if all commercially significant rights to a patent, as defined in § 801.1(o), for any therapeutic area (or specific indication within a therapeutic area) are transferred to another entity. All commercially significant rights are transferred even if the patent holder retains limited manufacturing rights, as defined in § 801.1(p), or co-rights, as defined in § 801.1(q).
Examples: Although these examples refer to licenses, which are typically used to effect the transfer of pharmaceutical patent rights to a recipient of those rights, other methods of transferring patent rights, by assignment or grant, among others, are similarly covered by these rules and examples.
1. B holds a patent relating to an active pharmaceutical ingredient for cardiovascular use. A will obtain a license from B that grants A the exclusive right to all of B's patent rights except that both A and B can manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient to be sold by A under the exclusive license agreement. B retains limited manufacturing rights as defined in § 801.1(p) because it retains the right to manufacture the product covered by the patent for cardiovascular use solely to provide the product to A. A is still receiving all commercially significant rights to the patent, and the transfer of these rights via the license constitutes an asset acquisition. Further, even if B retained all rights to manufacture (so that A could not manufacture), B would still retain limited manufacturing rights, and A would still receive all commercially significant rights to the patent. Thus, the transfer of these rights via the license would also constitute an asset acquisition.
2. B holds a patent for an in-vitro diagnostic substance relating to arthritis. B will grant A an exclusive license to all of B's patent rights for all veterinary indications. B retains all patent rights for all human indications. The exclusive license to all commercially significant rights for all veterinary indications is an asset acquisition because A is receiving all rights to the patent for a therapeutic area.
3. B holds a patent relating to a biological product. B will grant A an exclusive license to all of B's patent rights in all therapeutic areas. A and B are also entering into a co-development and co-commercialization agreement under which B will assist A in developing, marketing and promoting the product to physicians. B cannot separately use the patent in the same therapeutic area as A under the co-development and co-commercialization agreement. A will book all sales of the product and will pay B a portion of the profits resulting from those sales. Despite B's retention of these co-rights, A is still receiving all commercially significant rights. The licensing agreement is an asset acquisition. This would be an asset acquisition even if B also retained limited manufacturing rights.
4. B holds a patent relating to an active pharmaceutical ingredient and a bulk compound that contains that active pharmaceutical ingredient. B will grant A an exclusive license to use the bulk compound to manufacture and sell a finished product in the neurological therapeutic area. B cannot manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient or bulk compound for any other finished products in the neurological area, but it can manufacture either for use by another party in a different therapeutic area. Despite B's retention of manufacturing rights of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and bulk compound for therapeutic areas other than neurology, A is still receiving all commercially significant rights in a therapeutic area and the licensing agreement is the acquisition of an asset.
5. B holds a patent related to a pharmaceutical product that has been approved by the FDA. B will enter into an exclusive distribution agreement with A that will give A the right to distribute the product in the U.S. B will manufacture the product for A and will receive a portion of all revenues from the sale of the product. A receives no exclusive patent rights under the distribution agreement. A has not obtained all commercially significant rights to the patent because it is only handling the logistics of selling and distributing the product on B's behalf.
Therefore, the exclusive distribution agreement is not an asset acquisition.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34431, July 29, 1983; 66 FR 8688, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4990, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11510, Mar. 8, 2005; 78 FR 68713, Nov. 15, 2013]
§ 801.3
Activities in or affecting commerce.
Section 7A(a)(1) is satisfied if any entity included within the acquiring person, or any entity included within the acquired person, is engaged in commerce or in any activity affecting commerce.

# Examples:
1. A foreign subsidiary of a U.S. corporation seeks to acquire a foreign business. The acquiring person includes the U.S. parent corporation. If the U.S. corporation, or the foreign subsidiary, or any entity controlled by either one of them, is engaged in commerce or in any activity affecting commerce, section 7A(a)(1) is satisfied. Note, however, that §§ 802.50-802.52 may exempt certain acquisitions of foreign businesses or assets.
2. Even if none of the entities within the acquiring person is engaged in commerce or in any activity affecting commerce, the acquisition nevertheless satisfies section 7A(a)(1) if any entity included within the acquired person is so engaged.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978; 43 FR 36054, Aug. 15, 1978]
§ 801.4
Secondary acquisitions.
(a) Whenever as the result of an acquisition (the “primary acquisition”) an acquiring person controls an entity which holds voting securities of an issuer that entity does not control, then the acquiring person's acquisition of the issuer's voting securities is a secondary acquisition and is separately subject to the act and these rules.
(b)
Exemptions.
(1) No secondary acquisition shall be exempt from the requirements of the act solely because the related primary acquisition is exempt from the requirements of the act.
(2) A secondary acquisition may itself be exempt from the requirements of the act under section 7A(c) or these rules.

# Examples:
1. Assume that acquiring person “A” proposes to acquire all the voting securities of corporation B. This section provides that the acquisition of voting securities of issuers held but not controlled by B or by any entity which B controls are secondary acquisitions by “A.” Thus, if B holds more than $50 million (as adjusted) of the voting securities of corporation X (but does not control X), and “A” and “X” satisfy Sections 7A (a)(1) and (a)(2), “A” must file notification separately with respect to its secondary acquisition of voting securities of X. “X” must file notification within fifteen days (or in the case of a cash tender offer, 10 days) after “A” files, pursuant to § 801.30.
2. If in the previous example “A” acquires only 50 percent of the voting securities of B, the result would remain the same. Since “A” would be acquiring control of B, all of B's holdings in X would be attributable to “A.”
3. In the previous examples, if “A's” acquisition of the voting securities of B is exempt, “A” may still be required to file notification with respect to its secondary acquisition of the voting securities of X, unless that acquisition is itself exempt.
4. In the previous examples, assume A's acquisition of B is accomplished by merging B into A's subsidiary, S, and S is designated the surviving corporation. B's voting securities are cancelled, and B's shareholders are to receive cash in return. Since S is designated the surviving corporation and A will control S and also hold assets or voting securities it did not hold previously, “A” is an acquiring person in an acquisition of voting securities by virtue of §§ 801.2 (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(2)(i). A will be deemed to have acquired control of B, and A's resulting acquisition of the voting securities of X is a secondary acquisition. Since cash, the only consideration paid for the voting securities of B, is not considered an asset of the person from which it is acquired, by virtue of § 801.2(d)(2) “A” is an acquiring person only. The acquisition of the minority holding of B in X is therefore a secondary acquisition by “A,” but since “B” is an acquired person only, “B” is not deemed to make any secondary acquisition in this transaction.
5. In previous Example 4, suppose the consideration paid by A for the acquisition of B is in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) worth of the voting securities of A. By virtue of § 801.2(d)(2), “A” and “B” are each both acquiring and acquired persons. A will still be deemed to have acquired control of B, and therefore the resulting acquisition of the voting securities of X is a secondary acquisition. Although “B” is now also an acquiring person, unless B gains control of A in the transaction, B still makes no secondary acquisitions of stock held by A. If the consideration paid by A is the voting securities of one of A's subsidiaries and B thereby gains control of that subsidiary, B will make secondary acquisitions of any minority holdings of that subsidiary.
6. Assume that A and B propose through consolidation to create a new corporation, C,
and that both A and B will lose their corporate identities as a result. Since no participating corporation in existence prior to consummation is the designated surviving corporation, “A” and “B” are each both acquiring and acquired persons by virtue of § 801.2(d)(2)(iii). The acquisition of the minority holdings of entities within each are therefore potential secondary acquisitions by the other.
(c) Where the primary acquisition is—
(1) A cash tender offer, the waiting period procedures established for cash tender offers pursuant to sections 7A(a) and 7A(e) of the act shall be applicable to both the primary acquisition and the secondary acquisition;
(2) A non-cash tender offer, the waiting period procedures established for tender offers pursuant to section 7A(e)(2) of the act shall be applicable to both the primary acquisition and the secondary acquisition.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34432, July 29, 1983; 52 FR 7080, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8688, Feb. 1, 2001; 67 FR 11902, Mar. 18, 2002; 70 FR 4990, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11511, Mar. 8, 2005]
§ 801.10
Value of voting securities, non-corporate interests and assets to be acquired.
Except as provided in § 801.13, the value of voting securities and assets to be acquired shall be determined as follows:
(a)
Voting securities.
(1) If the security is traded on a national securities exchange or is authorized to be quoted in an interdealer quotation system of a national securities association registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission—
(i) And the acquisition price has been determined, the value shall be the market price or the acquisition price, whichever is greater; or if
(ii) The acquisition price has not been determined, the value shall be the market price.
(2) If paragraph (a)(1) of this section is inapplicable—
(i) But the acquisition price has been determined, the value shall be the acquisition price; or if
(ii) The acquisition price has not been determined, the value shall be the fair market value.
(b)
Assets.
The value of assets to be acquired shall be the fair market value of the assets, or, if determined and greater than the fair market value, the acquisition price.
(c) For purposes of this section and § 801.13(a)(2):
(1)
Market price.
(i) For acquisitions subject to § 801.30, the market price shall be the lowest closing quotation, or, in an interdealer quotation system, the lowest closing bid price, within the 45 calendar days prior to the receipt of the notice required by § 803.5(a) or prior to the consummation of the acquisition.
(ii) For acquisitions not subject to § 801.30, the market price shall be the lowest closing quotation, or, in an interdealer quotation system, the lowest closing bid price, within the 45 or fewer calendar days which are prior to the consummation of the acquisition but not earlier than the day prior to the execution of the contract, agreement in principle or letter of intent to merge or acquire.
(iii) When the security was not traded within the period specified by this paragraph, the last closing quotation or closing bid price preceding such period shall be used. If such closing quotations are available in more than one market, the person filing notification may select any such quotation.
(2)
Acquisition price.
The acquisition price shall include the value of all consideration for such voting securities, non-corporate interests or assets to be acquired.
(3)
Fair market value.
The fair market value shall be determined in good faith by the board of directors of the ultimate parent entity included within the acquiring person, or, if unincorporated, by officials exercising similar functions; or by an entity delegated that function by such board or officials. Such determination must be made as of any day within 60 calendar days prior to the filing of the notification required by the act, or, if such notification has not been filed, within 60 calendar days prior to the consummation of the acquisition.

# Example:
Corporation A, the ultimate parent entity in person “A,” contracts to acquire assets of corporation B, and the contract provides that the acquisition price is
not to be determined until after the acquisition is effected. Under paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of the act, the value of the assets is to be the fair market value of the assets. Under paragraph (c)(3), the board of directors of corporation A must in good faith determine the fair market value. That determination will control for 60 days whether “A” and “B” must observe the requirements of the act; that is, “A” and “B” must either file notification or consummate the acquisition within that time. If “A” and “B” neither file nor consummate within 60 days, the parties would no longer be entitled to rely on the determination of fair market value, and, if in doubt about whether required to observe the requirements of the act, would have to make a second determination of fair market value.
(d)
Value of interests in an unincorporated entity.
In an acquisition of non-corporate interests that confers control of either an existing or a newly-formed unincorporated entity, the value of the non-corporate interests held as a result of the acquisition is the sum of the acquisition price of the interests to be acquired (provided the acquisition price has been determined), and the fair market value of any of the interests in the same unincorporated entity held by the acquiring person prior to the acquisition; or, if the acquisition price has not been determined, the fair market value of interests held as a result of the acquisition.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8688, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 11511, Mar. 8, 2005; 76 FR 42482, July 19, 2011]
§ 801.11
Annual net sales and total assets.
(a) The annual net sales and total assets of a person shall include all net sales and all assets held, whether foreign or domestic, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(b) Except for the total assets of a corporation or unincorporated entity at the time of its formation which shall be determined pursuant to Sec. 801.40(d) or 801.50(c) the annual net sales and total assets of a person shall be as stated on the financial statements specified in paragraph (c) of this section:
Provided:
(1) That the annual net sales and total assets of each entity included within such person are consolidated therein. If the annual net sales and total assets of any entity included within the person are not consolidated in such statements, the annual net sales and total assets of the person filing notification shall be recomputed to include the nonduplicative annual net sales and nonduplicative total assets of each such entity; and
(2) That such statements, and any restatements pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section (insofar as possible), have been prepared in accordance with the accounting principles normally used by such person, and are of a date not more than 15 months prior to the date of filing of the notification required by the act, or the date of consummation of the acquisition.

# Example:
Person “A” is composed of entity A, subsidiaries B1 and B2 which A controls, subsidiaries C1 and C2 which B1 controls, and subsidiary C3 which B2 controls. Suppose that A's most recent financial statement consolidates the annual net sales and total assets of B1, C1, and C2, but not B2 or C3. In order to determine whether person “A” meets the criteria of Section 7A(a)(2)(B), as either an acquiring or an acquired person, A must recompute its annual net sales and total assets to reflect consolidation of the nonduplicative annual net sales and nonduplicative total assets of B2 and C3.
(c) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The annual net sales of a person shall be as stated on the last regularly prepared annual statement of income and expense of that person; and
(2) The total assets of a person shall be as stated on the last regularly prepared balance sheet of that person.

# Example:
Suppose “A” sells assets to “B” on January 1. “A's” next regularly prepared balance sheet, dated February 1, reflects that sale. On March 1, “A” proposes to sell more assets to “B.” “A's” total assets on March 1 are “A's” total assets as stated on its February 1 balance sheet.
(d) No assets of any natural person or of any estate of a deceased natural person, other than investment assets, voting securities and other income-producing property, shall be included in determining the total assets of a person.
(e) Subject to the limitations of paragraph (d) of this section, the total assets of:
(1) An acquiring person that does not have the regularly prepared balance sheet described in paragraph (c)(2) of
this section shall be, for acquisitions of each acquired person:
(i) All assets held by the acquiring person at the time of the acquisition,
(ii) Less all cash that will be used by the acquiring person as consideration in an acquisition of assets from, or in an acquisition of voting securities issued by, or in an acquisition of non-corporate interests of, that acquired person (or an entity within that acquired person) and less all cash that will be used for expenses incidental to the acquisition, and less all securities of the acquired person (or an entity within that acquired person); and
(2) An acquired person that does not have the regularly prepared balance sheet described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be either
(i) All assets held by the acquired person at the time of the acquisition, or
(ii) Where applicable, its assets as determined in accordance with § 801.40(d).

# Examples:
For examples 1-4, assume that A is a newly-formed company which is not controlled by any other entity. Assume also that A has no sales and does not have the balance sheet described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
1. A will borrow $105 million in cash and will purchase assets from B for $100 million. In order to establish whether A's acquisition of B's assets is reportable, A's total assets are determined by subtracting the $100 million that it will use to acquire B's assets from the $105 million that A will have at the time of the acquisition. Therefore, A has total assets of less than $10 million (as adjusted) and does not meet any size-of-person test of Section 7A(a)(2).
2. Assume that A will acquire assets from B and that, at the time it acquires B's assets, A will have $85 million in cash and a factory valued at $60 million. A will exchange the factory and $80 million cash for B's assets. To determine A's total assets, A should subtract from the $85 million cash the $80 million that will be used to acquire assets from B and add the remainder to the value of the factory. Thus, A has total assets of $65 million. Even though A will use the factory as part of the consideration for the acquisition, the value of the factory must still be included in A's total assets. Note that A and B may also have to report the acquisition by B of A's non-cash assets (i.e., the factory). For that acquisition, the value of the cash A will use to buy B's assets is not excluded from A's total assets. Thus, in the acquisition by B, A's total assets are $145 million.
3. Assume that company A will make a $150 million acquisition and that it must pay a loan origination fee of $5 million. A borrows $161 million. A does not meet the size-of-person test in Section 7A(a)(2) because its total assets are less than $10 million (as adjusted). $150 million is excluded because it will be consideration for the acquisition and $5 million is excluded because it is an expense incidental to the acquisition. Therefore, A is only a $6 million person. Note that if A were making an acquisition valued at over $200 million (as adjusted), the acquisition would be reportable without regard to the sizes of the persons involved.
4. Assume that “A” borrows $195 million to acquire $100 million of assets from “B” and $60 million of voting securities of “C.” The balance of the loan will be used for working capital. To determine its size for purposes of its acquisition from “B,” “A” subtracts the $100 million that it will use for that acquisition. Therefore, A has total assets of $95 million for purposes of its acquisition from “B.” To determine its size with respect to its acquisition from “C,” “A” subtracts the $60 million that will be paid for “C's” voting securities. Thus, for purposes of its acquisition from “C”, “A” has total assets of $135 million. In the first acquisition “A” meets the $10 million (as adjusted) size-of-person test and in the second acquisition “A” meets the $100 million (as adjusted) size-of-person test of Section 7A(a)(2).
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34429, July 29, 1983; 52 FR 7080, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8688, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4990, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11511, Mar. 8, 2005; 70 FR 73372, Dec. 12, 2005]
§ 801.12
Calculating percentage of voting securities.
(a)
Voting securities.
Whenever the act or these rules require calculation of the percentage of voting securities to be held or acquired, the issuer whose voting securities are being acquired shall be deemed the “acquired persons.”

# Example:
Person “A” is composed of corporation A1 and subsidiary A2; person “B” is composed of corporation B1 and subsidiary B2. Assume that A2 proposes to sell assets to B1 in exchange for common stock of B2. Under this paragraph, for purposes of calculating the percentage of voting securities to be held, the “acquired person” is B2. For all other purposes, the acquired person is “B.” (For all purposes, the “acquiring persons” are “A” and “B.”)
(b)
Percentage of voting securities.
(1) Whenever the act or these rules require calculation of the percentage of voting
securities of an issuer to be held or acquired, the percentage shall be the sum of the separate ratios for each class of voting securities, expressed as a percentage. The ratio for each class of voting securities equals:
(i)(A) The number of votes for directors of the issuer which the holder of a class of voting securities is presently entitled to cast, and as a result of the acquisition, will become entitled to cast, divided by,
(B) The total number of votes for directors of the issuer which presently may be cast by that class, and which will be entitled to be cast by that class after the acquisition, multiplied by,
(ii)(A) The number of directors that class is entitled to elect, divided by (B) the total number of directors.

# Examples:
In each of the following examples company X has two classes of voting securities, class A, consisting of 1000 shares with each share having one vote, and class B, consisting of 100 shares with each share having one vote. The class A shares elect four of the ten directors and the class B shares elect six of the ten directors.
In this situation, § 801.12(b) requires calculations of the percentage of voting securities held to be made according to the following formula:
Number of votes of class A held divided by Total votes of class A times Directors elected by class A stock divided by Total number of directors
Plus
Number of votes of class B held divided by Total votes of class B times Directors elected by class B stock divided by Total number of directors
1. Assume that company Y holds all 100 shares of class B stock and no shares of class A stock. By virtue of its class B holdings, Y has all 100 of the votes which may be cast by class B stock and can elect six of company X's ten directors. Applying the formula which results from the rule, Y calculates that it holds 100/100 × 6/10 or 60 percent of the voting securities of company X because of its holdings of class B stock and no additional percentage derived from holdings of class A stock. Consequently, Y holds a total of 60 percent of the voting securities of company X.
2. Assume that company Y holds 500 shares of class A stock and no shares of class B stock. By virtue of its class A holdings, Y has 500 of the 1000 votes which may be cast by class A to elect four of company X's ten directors. Applying the formula, Y calculates that it holds 500/1000 × 4/10 or 20 percent of the voting securities of company X from its holdings of class A stock and no additional percentage derived from holdings of class B stock. Consequently, Y holds a total of 20 percent of the voting securities of company X.
3. Assume that company Y holds 500 shares of class A stock and 60 shares of class B stock. Y calculates that it holds 20 percent of the voting securities of company X because of its holdings of class A stock (see example 2). Additionally, as a result of its class B holdings Y has 60 of the 100 votes which may be cast by class B stock to elect six of company X's ten directors. Applying the formula, Y calculates that it holds 60/100 × 6/10 or 36 percent of the voting securities of company X because of its holdings of class B stock. Since the formula requires that a person that holds different classes of voting securities of the same issuer add together the separate percentages calculated for each class, Y holds a total of 56 percent (20 percent plus 36 percent) of the voting securities of company X.
(2) Authorized but unissued voting securities and treasury voting securities shall not be considered securities presently entitled to vote for directors of the issuer.
(3) For purposes of determining the number of outstanding voting securities of an issuer, a person may rely upon the most recent information set forth in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, unless such person knows or has reason to believe that the information contained therein is inaccurate.

# Examples:
1. In the example to paragraph (a), to determine the percentage of B2's voting securities which will be held by “A” after the transaction, all voting securities of B2 held by “A,” the “acquiring person” (including A2 and all other entities included in person “A”), must be aggregated. If “A” holds convertible securities of B2 which meet the definition of voting securities in § 801.1(f), these securities are to be disregarded in calculating the percentage of voting securities held by “A.”
2. Under this formula, any votes obtained by means of proxies from other persons are also disregarded in calculating the percentage of voting securities to be held or acquired.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978; 43 FR 36054, Aug. 15, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 7081, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8689, Feb. 1, 2001]
§ 801.13
Aggregation of voting securities, assets and non-corporate interests.
(a)
Voting securities.
(1) Subject to the provisions of § 801.15, and paragraph (a)(3) of this section, all voting securities of the issuer which will be held by the acquiring person after the consummation of an acquisition shall be deemed voting securities held as a result of the acquisition. The value of such voting securities shall be the sum of the value of the voting securities to be acquired, determined in accordance with § 801.10(a), and the value of the voting securities held by the acquiring person prior to the acquisition, determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) The value of voting securities of an issuer held prior to an acquisition shall be—
(i) If the security is traded on a national securities exchange or is authorized to be quoted in an interdealer quotation system of a national securities association registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, the market price calculated in accordance with § 801.10(c)(1); or
(ii) If paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is not applicable, the fair market value determined in accordance with § 801.10(c)(3).

# Examples:
1. Assume that acquiring person “A” holds in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of the voting securities of X, and is to acquire another $1 million of the same voting securities. Since under paragraph (a) of this section all voting securities “A” will hold after the acquisition are held “as a result of” the acquisition, “A” will hold in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of the voting securities of X as a result of the acquisition. “A” must therefore observe the requirements of the act before making the acquisition, unless the present acquisition is exempt under Section 7A(c), § 802.21 or any other rule.
2. See § 801.15 and the examples to that rule.
3. See § 801.20 and the examples to that rule.
4. On January 1, company A acquired in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of voting securities of company B. “A” and “B” filed notification and observed the waiting period for that acquisition. Company A plans to acquire $1 million of assets from company B on May 1 of the same year. Under § 801.13(a)(3), “A” and “B” do not aggregate the value of the earlier acquired voting securities to determine whether the acquisition is subject to the act. Therefore, the value of the acquisition is $1 million and it is not reportable.
(3) Voting securities held by the acquiring person prior to an acquisition shall not be deemed voting securities held as a result of that subsequent acquisition if:
(i) The acquiring person is, in the subsequent acquisition, acquiring only assets; and
(ii) The acquisition of the previously acquired voting securities was subject to the filing and waiting requirements of the act (and such requirements were observed) or was exempt pursuant to § 802.21.
(b)
Assets.
(1) All assets to be acquired from the acquired person shall be assets held as a result of the acquisition. The value of such assets shall be determined in accordance with § 801.10(b).
(2) If the acquiring person signs a letter of intent or agreement in principle to acquire assets from an acquired person, and within the previous 180 days the acquiring person has
(i) Signed a letter of intent or agreement in principle to acquire assets from the same acquired person, which is still in effect but has not been consummated, or has acquired assets from the same acquired person which it still holds; and
(ii) The previous acquisition (whether consummated or still contemplated) was not subject to the requirements of the Act; then for purposes of the size-of-transaction test of Section 7A(a)(2), both the acquiring and the acquired persons shall treat the assets that were the subject of the earlier letter of intent or agreement in principal as though they are being acquired as part of the present acquisition. The value of any assets which are subject to this paragraph is determined in accordance with § 801.10(b).

# Examples:
1. On day 1, A enters into an agreement with B to acquire assets valued at $45 million. On day 90, A and B sign a letter of intent pursuant to which A will acquire additional assets from B, valued at $45 million. The original transaction has not closed, however, the agreement is still in effect. For purposes of the size-of-transaction test in Section 7A(a)(2), A must aggregate the value of both of its acquisitions and file prior to
acquiring the assets if the aggregate value exceeds $50 million (as adjusted).
2. On March 30, A enters into a letter of intent to acquire assets of B valued at $45 million. On January 31, earlier the same year, A closed on an acquisition of assets of B valued at $45 million. For purposes of the size-of-transaction test in Section 7A(a)(2), A must aggregate the value of both of its acquisitions and file prior to acquiring the assets of B if the aggregate value exceeds $50 million (as adjusted).
3. On day 1, A enters into an agreement with B to acquire assets valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). A and B file notification and observe the waiting period. On day 60, A signs a letter of intent to acquire an additional $40 million of assets from B. Because the earlier acquisition was subject to the requirements of the Act, A does not aggregate the two acquisitions of assets and is free to acquire the additional assets of B without filing an additional notification.
4. On day 1, A consummates an acquisition of assets of B valued at $45 million. On day 60, A consummates a sale of the same assets to an unrelated third party. On day 120, A enters into an agreement to acquire additional assets of B valued at $45 million. Because A no longer holds the assets from the previous acquisition, no aggregation of the two asset acquisitions is required and A may acquire all of the additional assets without filing notification.
(c)(1)
Non-corporate interests.
In an acquisition of non-corporate interests, any previously acquired non-corporate interests in the same unincorporated entity is aggregated with the newly acquired interests. The value of such an acquisition is determined in accordance with § 801.10(d) of these rules.
(2)
Other assets or voting securities of the same acquired person.
An acquisition of non-corporate interests which does not confer control of the unincorporated entity is not aggregated with any other assets or voting securities which have been or are currently being acquired from the same acquired person.

# Examples:
1. A currently has the right to 30 percent of the profits in LLC. B has the right to the remaining 70 percent. A acquires an additional 30 percent interest in LLC from B for $90 million in cash. As a result of the acquisition, A is deemed to now have a 60 percent interest in LLC. The current acquisition is valued at $90 million, the acquisition price. The value of the 30 percent interest that A already holds is the fair market value of that interest. The value for size-of-transaction purposes is the sum of the two.
2. A acquires the following from B: (1) All of the assets of a subsidiary of B; (2) all of the voting securities of another subsidiary of B; and (3) a 30 percent interest in an LLC which is currently wholly-owned by B. In determining the size-of-transaction, A aggregates the value of the voting securities and assets of the subsidiaries that it is acquiring from B, but does not include the value of the 30 percent interest in the LLC, pursuant to § 801.13(c)(2).
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 7081, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8689, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4991, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11513, Mar. 8, 2005]
§ 801.14
Aggregate total amount of voting securities and assets.
For purposes of Section 7A(a)(2) and § 801.1(h), the aggregate total amount of voting securities and assets shall be the sum of:
(a) The value of all voting securities of the acquired person which the acquiring person would hold as a result of the acquisition, determined in accordance with § 801.13(a); and
(b) The value of all assets of the acquired person which the acquiring person would hold as a result of the acquisition, determined in accordance with § 801.13(b).

# Examples:
1. Acquiring person “A” previously acquired less than $50 million (as adjusted) of the voting securities (not convertible voting securities) of corporation X. “A” now intends to acquire additional assets of X. Under paragraph (a) of this section, “A” looks to § 801.13(a) and determines that the voting securities are to be held “as a result of” the acquisition. Section 801.13(a) also provides that “A” must determine the present value of the previously acquired securities. Under paragraph (b) of this section, “A” looks to § 801.13(b)(1) and determines that the assets to be acquired will be held “as a result of” the acquisition, and are valued under § 801.10(b). Therefore, if the voting securities have a present value which when combined with the value of the assets would exceed $50 million (as adjusted), the asset acquisition is subject to the requirements of the act since, as a result of it, “A” would hold an aggregate total amount of the voting securities and assets of “X” in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) .
2. In the previous example, assume that the assets acquisition occurred first, and that the acquisition of the voting securities is to occur within 180 days of the first acquisition. “A” now looks to § 801.13(b)(2) and determines that because the second acquisition is of voting securities and not assets, the
asset and voting securities acquisitions are not treated as one transaction. Therefore, the second acquisition would not be subject to the requirements of the act since the value of the securities to be acquired does not exceed the $50 million (as adjusted) size-of-transaction test.
(c) The value of all non-corporate interests of the acquired person which the acquiring person would hold as a result of the acquisition, determined in accordance with § 801.13(c).
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8689, Feb. 1, 2001; 67 FR 11902, Mar. 18, 2002; 70 FR 4991, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 73372, Dec. 12, 2005]
§ 801.15
Aggregation of voting securities, non-corporate interests and assets the acquisition of which was exempt.
Notwithstanding § 801.13, for purposes of determining the aggregate total amount of voting securities, non-corporate interests and assets of the acquired person held by the acquiring person under Section 7A(a)(2) and § 801.1(h), none of the following will be held as a result of an acquisition:
(a) Assets, non-corporate interests or voting securities the acquisition of which was exempt at the time of acquisition (or would have been exempt, had the act and these rules been in effect), or the present acquisition of which is exempt, under—
(1) Sections 7A(c)(1), (3), (5), (6), (7), (8), and (11)(B);
(2) Sections 802.1, 802.2, 802.5, 802.6(b)(1), 802.8, 802.30, 802.31, 802.35, 802.52, 802.53, 802.63, and 802.70 of this chapter;
(b) Assets, non-corporate interests or voting securities the acquisition of which was exempt at the time of acquisition (or would have been exempt, had the Act and these rules been in effect), or the present acquisition of which is exempt, under Section 7A(c)(9) and §§ 802.3, 802.4, and 802.64 of this chapter unless the limitations contained in Section 7A(c)(9) or those sections do not apply or as a result of the acquisition would be exceeded, in which case the assets or voting securities so acquired will be held; and
(c) Voting securities the acquisition of which was exempt at the time of acquisition (or would have been exempt, had the Act and these rules been in effect), or the present acquisition of which is exempt, under section 7A(c)(11)(A) unless additional voting securities of the same issuer have been or are being acquired; and
(d) Assets or voting securities the acquisition of which was exempt at the time of acquisition (or would have been exempt, had the Act and these rules been in effect), or the present acquisition of which is exempt, under §§ 802.50(a), 802.51(a), 802.51(b) of this chapter unless the limitations, in aggregate for §§ 802.50(a), 802.51(a), 802.51(b) , do not apply or as a result of the acquisition would be exceeded, in which case the assets or voting securities so acquired will be held.

# Examples:
1. Assume that acquiring person “A” is simultaneously to acquire in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of the convertible voting securities of X and less than $50 million (as adjusted) of the voting common stock of X. Although the acquisition of the convertible voting securities is exempt under § 802.31, since the overall value of the securities to be acquired is greater than $50 million (as adjusted), “A” must determine whether it is obliged to file notification and observe a waiting period before acquiring the securities. Because § 802.31 is one of the exemptions listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, “A” would not hold the convertible voting securities as a result of the acquisition. Therefore, since as a result of the acquisition “A” would hold only the common stock, the size-of-transaction tests of Section 7A(a)(2) would not be satisfied, and “A” need not observe the requirements of the act before acquiring the common stock. (Note, however, that the value of the convertible voting securities would be reflected in “A's” next regularly prepared balance sheet, for purposes of § 801.11).
2. In the previous example, the rule was applied to voting securities the present acquisition of which is exempt. Assume instead that “A” had acquired the convertible voting securities prior to its acquisition of the common stock. “A” still would not hold the convertible voting securities as a result of the acquisition of the common stock, because the rule states that voting securities the previous acquisition of which was exempt also fall within the rule. Thus, the size-of-transaction tests of Section 7A(a)(2) would again not be satisfied, and “A” need not observe the requirements of the act before acquiring the common stock.
3. In example 2, assume instead that “A” acquired the convertible voting securities in 1975, before the act and rules went into effect. Since the rule applies to voting securities the acquisition of which would have
been exempt had the act and rules been in effect, the result again would be identical. If the rules had been in effect in 1975, the acquisition of the convertible voting securities would have been exempt under § 802.31.
4. Assume that acquiring person “B,” a United States person, acquired from corporation “X” two manufacturing plants located abroad, and assume that the acquisition price was in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). In the most recent year, sales into the United States attributable to the plants were less than $50 million (as adjusted), and thus the acquisition was exempt under § 802.50(a)(2). Within 180 days of that acquisition, “B” seeks to acquire a third plant from “X,” to which United States sales were attributable in the most recent year. Since under § 801.13(b)(2), as a result of the acquisition, “B” would hold all three plants of “X,”if the $50 million (as adjusted) limitation in § 802.50(a)(2) would be exceeded, under paragraph (b) of this section, “B” would hold the previously acquired assets for purposes of the second acquisition. Therefore, as a result of the second acquisition, “B” would hold assets of “X” exceeding $50 million (as adjusted) in value, would not qualify for the exemption in § 802.50(a)(2), and must observe the requirements of the act and file notification for the acquisition of all three plants before acquiring the third plant
5. “A” acquires producing oil reserves valued at $400 million from “B.” Two months later, “A” agrees to acquire oil and gas rights valued at $75 million from “B.” Paragraph (b) of this section and § 801.13(b)(2) require aggregating the previously exempt acquisition of oil reserves with the second acquisition. If the two acquisitions, when aggregated, exceed the $500 million limitation on the exemption for oil and gas reserves in § 802.3(a), “A” and “B” will be required to file notification for the latter acquisition, including within the filings the earlier acquisition. Since, in this example, the total value of the assets in the two acquisitions, when aggregated, is less than $500 million, both acquisitions are exempt from the notification requirements. In determining whether the value of the assets in the two acquisitions exceeds $500 million, “A” need not determine the current fair market value of the oil reserves acquired in the first transaction, since these assets are now within the person of “A.” Instead, “A” is directed by § 801.13(b)(2)(ii) to use the value of the oil reserves at the time of their prior acquisition in accordance with § 801.10(b).
6. “X” acquired 55 percent of the voting securities of M, an entity controlled by “Z,” six months ago and now proposes to acquire 50 percent of the voting stock of N, another entity controlled by “Z.” M's assets consist of $150 million worth of producing coal reserves plus less than $50 million (as adjusted) worth of non-exempt assets and N's assets consist of a producing coal mine worth $100 million together with non-exempt assets with a fair market value of less than $50 million (as adjusted). “X's” acquisition of the voting securities of M was exempt under § 802.4(a) because M held exempt assets pursuant to § 802.3(b) and less than $50 million (as adjusted) of non-exempt assets. Because “X” acquired control of M in the earlier transaction, M is now within the person of “X,” and the assets of M need not be aggregated with those of N to determine if the subsequent acquisition of N will exceed the limitation for coal reserves or for non-exempt assets. Since the assets of N alone do not exceed these limitations, “X's” acquisition of N also is not reportable.
7. In previous Example 6, assume that “X” acquired 30 percent of the voting securities of M and proposes to acquire 40 percent of the voting securities of N, another entity controlled by “Z.” Assume also that M's assets at the time of “X's” acquisition of M's voting securities consisted of $90 million worth of producing coal reserves and non-exempt assets with a fair market value of less than $50 million (as adjusted), and that N's assets currently consist of $60 million worth of producing coal reserves and non-exempt assets with a fair market value which when aggregated with M's non-exempt assets would exceed $50 million (as adjusted). Since “X” acquired a minority interest in M and intends to acquire a minority interest in N, and since M and N are controlled by “Z,” the assets of M and N must be aggregated, pursuant to Secs. 801.15(b) and 801.13, to determine whether the acquisition of N's voting securities is exempt. “X” is required to determine the current fair market value of M's assets. If the fair market value of M's coal reserves is unchanged, the aggregated exempt assets do not exceed the limitation for coal reserves. However, if the present fair market value of N's non-exempt assets also is unchanged, the present fair market value of the non-exempt assets of M and N when aggregated is greater than $50 million. Thus the acquisition of the voting securities of N is not exempt. If “X” proposed to acquire 50 percent or more of the voting securities of both M and N in the same acquisition, the assets of M and N must be aggregated to determine if the acquisition of the voting securities of both issuers is exempt. Since the fair market value of the aggregated non-exempt assets exceeds $50 million (as adjusted), the acquisition would not be exempt.
8. “A” acquired 49 percent of the voting securities of M and 45 percent of the voting securities of N. Both M and N are controlled by “B.” At the time of the acquisition, M held rights to producing coal reserves worth $90 million and N held a producing coal mine worth $90 million. This acquisition was exempt since the aggregated holdings fell below the $200 million limitation for coal in
§ 802.3(b) of this chapter. A year later, “A” proposes to acquire an additional 10 percent of the voting securities of both M and N. In the intervening year, M has acquired coal reserves so that its holdings are now valued at $140 million, and the value of N's assets remained unchanged. “A's” second acquisition would not be exempt. “A” is required to determine the value of the exempt assets and any non-exempt assets held by any issuer whose voting securities it intends to acquire before each proposed acquisition (unless “A” already owns 50 percent or more of the voting securities of the issuer) to determine if the value of those holdings of the issuer falls below the limitation of the applicable exemption. Here, the holdings of M and N now exceed the $200 million exemption for acquisitions of coal reserves in § 802.3 of this chapter, and thus do not qualify for the exemption of voting securities provided by § 802.4(a) of this chapter.
9. A acquires assets of B located outside of the U.S. with sales into the U.S. of $45 million. It also acquires voting securities of B's foreign subsidiary X which has sales into the U.S. of $45 million. Both the assets and the voting securities of X are exempt under §§ 802.50 and 802.51 respectively when analyzed separately. However, because § 801.15(d) requires that the sales into the U.S. for both the assets and the voting securities be aggregated to determine whether the $50 million (as adjusted) limitation has been exceeded, both are held as a result of the acquisition because the aggregate sales into the U.S. total in excess of $50 million (as adjusted).
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 7081, Mar. 6, 1987; 61 FR 13684, Mar. 28, 1996; 66 FR 8689, Feb. 1, 2001; 67 FR 11902, Mar. 18, 2002; 70 FR 11512, Mar. 8, 2005; 76 FR 42482, July 19, 2011]
§ 801.20
Acquisitions subsequent to exceeding threshold.
Acquisitions meeting the criteria of section 7A(a), and not otherwise exempted by section 7A(c) or § 802.21 or any other of these rules, are subject to the requirements of the act even though:
(a) Earlier acquisitions of assets or voting securities may have been subject to the requirements of the act;
(b) The acquiring person's holdings initially may have met or exceeded a notification threshold before the effective date of these rules; or
(c) The acquiring person's holdings initially may have met or exceeded a notification threshold by reason of increases in market values or events other than acquisitions.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8690, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4992, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 801.21
Securities and cash not considered assets when acquired.
For purposes of determining the aggregate total amount of assets under Section 7A(a)(2)(A), Section 7A(a)(2)(B)(i), Sec. 801.13(b), and Sec. 802.4:
(a) Cash shall not be considered an asset of the person from which it is acquired; and
(b) Neither voting or nonvoting securities nor obligations referred to in section 7A(c)(2) shall be considered assets of another person from which they are acquired.

# Examples:
1. Assume that acquiring person “A” acquires voting securities of issuer X from “B,” a person unrelated to X. Under this paragraph, the acquisition is treated only as one of voting securities, requiring “A” and “X” to comply with the requirements of the act, rather than one in which “A” acquires the assets of “B,” requiring “A” and “B” to comply. See also example 2 to § 801.30. Note that for purposes of section 7A(a)(2)—that is, for the next regularly prepared balance sheet of “A” referred to in § 801.11—the voting securities of X must be reflected after their acquisition; see § 801.11(c)(2).
2. In the previous example, if “A” acquires nonvoting securities of X from “B,” then under this section the acquisition would be treated only as one of nonvoting securities of X (and would be exempt under section 7A(c)(2)), rather than one in which “A” acquires assets of “B,” requiring “A” and “B” to comply. Again, the nonvoting securities of X would have to be reflected in “A's” next regularly prepared balance sheet for purposes of section 7A(a)(2).
3. In example 1, assume that “B” receives only cash from “A” in exchange for the voting securities of X. Under this section, “B's” acquisition of cash is
not
an acquisition of the “assets” of “A,” and “B” is not required to file notification as an acquiring person.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8690, Feb. 1, 2001; 68 FR 2430, Jan. 17, 2003; 70 FR 4992, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 801.30
Tender offers and acquisitions of voting securities and non-corporate interests from third parties.
(a) This section applies to:
(1) Acquisitions on a national securities exchange or through an interdealer
quotation system registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission;
(2) Acquisitions described by § 801.31;
(3) Tender offers;
(4) Secondary acquisitions;
(5) All acquisitions (other than mergers and consolidations) in which voting securities or non-corporate interests are to be acquired from a holder or holders other than the issuer or unincorporated entity or an entity included within the same person as the issuer or unincorporated entity;
(6) Conversions; and
(7) Acquisitions of voting securities resulting from the exercise of options or warrants which are—
(i) Issued by the issuer whose voting securities are to be acquired (or by any entity included within the same person as the issuer); and
(ii) The subject of a currently effective registration statement filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933.
(b) For acquisitions described by paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The waiting period required under the act shall commence upon the filing of notification by the acquiring person as provided in § 803.10(a); and
(2) The acquired person shall file the notification required by the act, in accordance with these rules, no later than 5 p.m. Eastern Time on the 15th (or, in the case of cash tender offers, the 10th) calendar day following the date of receipt, as defined by § 803.10(a), by the Federal Trade Commission and Assistant Attorney General of the notification filed by the acquiring person. Should the 15th (or, in the case of cash tender offers, the 10th) calendar day fall on a weekend day or federal holiday, the notification shall be filed no later than 5 p.m. Eastern Time on the next following business day.

# Examples:
1. Acquiring person “A” proposes to acquire from corporation B the voting securities of B's wholly owned subsidiary, corporation S. Since “A” is acquiring the shares of S from its parent, this section does not apply, and the waiting period does not begin until both “A” and “B” file notification.
2. Acquiring person “A” proposes to acquire in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of the voting securities of corporation X on a securities exchange. The waiting period begins when “A” files notification. “X” must file notification within 15 calendar days thereafter. The seller of the X shares is not subject to any obligations under the act.
3. Suppose that acquiring person “A” proposes to acquire 50 percent of the voting securities of corporation B which in turn owns 30 percent of the voting securities of corporation C. Thus “A's” acquisition of C's voting securities is a secondary acquisition (see § 801.4) to which this section applies because “A” is acquiring C's voting securities from a third party (B). Therefore, the waiting period with respect to “A's” acquisition of C's voting securities begins when “A” files its separate Notification and Report Form with respect to C, and “C” must file within 15 days (or in the case of a cash tender offer, 10 days) thereafter. “A's” primary and secondary acquisitions of the voting securities of B and C are subject to separate waiting periods; see § 801.4.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978; 43 FR 36054, Aug. 15, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 7082, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8690, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4992, Jan. 31, 2005; 76 FR 42482, July 19, 2011]
§ 801.31
Acquisitions of voting securities by offerees in tender offers.
Whenever an offeree in a noncash tender offer is required to, and does, file notification with respect to an acquisition described in § 801.2(e):
(a) The waiting period with respect to such acquisition shall begin upon filing of notification by the offeree, pursuant to §§ 801.30 and 803.10(a)(1);
(b) The person within which the issuer of the shares to be acquired by the offeree is included shall file notification as required by § 801.30(b);
(c) Any request for additional information or documentary material pursuant to section 7A(e) and § 803.20 shall extend the waiting period in accordance with § 803.20(c); and
(d) The voting securities to be acquired by the offeree may be placed into escrow, for the benefit of the offeree, pending expiration or termination of the waiting period with respect to the acquisition of such securities;
Provided however,
That no person may vote any voting securities placed into escrow pursuant to this paragraph.

# Example:
Assume that “A,” which has annual net sales exceeding $100 million (as adjusted), makes a tender offer for voting securities of corporation X. The consideration for the tender offer is to be voting securities of A. “S,” a shareholder of X with total assets exceeding $10 million (as adjusted), wishes to
tender its holdings of X and in exchange would receive shares of A valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). Under this section, “S's” acquisition of the shares of A would be an acquisition separately subject to the requirements of the act. Before “S” may acquire the voting securities of A, “S” must first file notification and observe a waiting period—which is separate from any waiting period that may apply with respect to “A” and “X.” Since § 801.30 applies, the waiting period applicable to “A” and “S” begins upon filing by “S,” and “A” must file with respect to “S's” acquisition within 15 days pursuant to § 801.30(b). Should the waiting period with respect to “A” and “X” expire or be terminated prior to the waiting period with respect to “S” and “A,” “S” may wish to tender its X-shares and place the A-shares into a nonvoting escrow until the expiration or termination of the latter waiting period.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8690, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4992, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 801.32
Conversion and acquisition.
A conversion is an acquisition within the meaning of the act.

# Example:
Assume that acquiring person “A” wishes to convert convertible voting securities of issuer X, and is to receive common stock of X valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). If “A” and “X” satisfy the criteria of Section 7A(a)(1) and Section 7A(a)(2)(B)(ii), then “A” and “X” must file notification and observe the waiting period before “A” completes the acquisition of the X common stock, unless exempted by Section 7A(c) or the regulations in this part. Since § 801.30 applies, the waiting period begins upon notification by “A,” and “X” must file notification within 15 days.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8690, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4992, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 801.33
Consummation of an acquisition by acceptance of tendered shares of payment.
The acceptance for payment of any shares tendered in a tender offer is the consummation of an acquisition of those shares within the meaning of the act.
[48 FR 34433, July 29, 1983]
§ 801.40
Formation of joint venture or other corporations.
(a) In the formation of a joint venture or other corporation (other than in connection with a merger or consolidation), even though the persons contributing to the formation of a joint venture or other corporation and the joint venture or other corporation itself may, in the formation transaction, be both acquiring and acquired persons within the meaning of § 801.2, the contributors shall be deemed acquiring persons only, and the joint venture or other corporation shall be deemed the acquired person only.
(b) Unless exempted by the act or any of these rules, upon the formation of a joint venture or other corporation, in a transaction meeting the criteria of Section 7A(a)(1) and 7A(a)(2)(A) (other than in connection with a merger or consolidation), an acquiring person shall be subject to the requirements of the act.
(c) Unless exempted by the act or any of these rules, upon the formation of a joint venture or other corporation, in a transaction meeting the criteria of Section 7A(a)(1) and the criteria of Section 7A(a)(2)(B)(i) (other than in connection with a merger or consolidation), an acquiring person shall be subject to the requirements of the act if:
(1)(i) The acquiring person has annual net sales or total assets of $100 million (as adjusted) or more;
(ii) The joint venture or other corporation will have total assets of $10 million (as adjusted) or more; and
(iii) At least one other acquiring person has annual net sales or total assets of $10 million (as adjusted) or more; or
(2)(i) The acquiring person has annual net sales or total assets of $10 million (as adjusted) or more;
(ii) The joint venture or other corporation will have total assets of $100 million (as adjusted) or more; and
(iii) At least one other acquiring person has annual net sales or total assets of $10 million (as adjusted) or more.
(d) For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and determining whether any exemptions provided by the act and these rules apply to its formation, the assets of the joint venture or other corporation shall include:
(1) All assets which any person contributing to the formation of the joint venture or other corporation has agreed to transfer or for which agreements have been secured for the joint venture or other corporation to obtain at any time, whether or not such person is subject to the requirements of the act; and
(2) Any amount of credit or any obligations of the joint venture or other corporation which any person contributing to the formation has agreed to extend or guarantee, at any time.
(e) The commerce criterion of Section 7A(a)(1) is satisfied if either the activities of any acquiring person are in or affect commerce, or the person filing notification should reasonably believe that the activities of the joint venture or other corporation will be in or will affect commerce.

# Examples:
1. Persons “A,” “B,” and “C” agree to create new corporation “N,” a joint venture. “A,” “B,” and “C” will each hold one third of the shares of “N.” “A” has more than $100 million (as adjusted) in annual net sales. “B” has more than $10 million (as adjusted) in total assets but less than $100 million (as adjusted) in annual net sales and total assets. Both “C's” total assets and its annual net sales are less than $10 million (as adjusted). “A,” “B,” and “C” are each engaged in commerce. “A,” “B,” and “C” have agreed to make an aggregate initial contribution to the new entity of $18 million in assets and each to make additional contributions of $21 million in each of the next three years. Under paragraph (d) of this section, the assets of the new corporation are $207 million. Under paragraph (c) of this section, “A” and “B” must file notification. Note that “A” and “B” also meet the criterion of Section 7A(a)(2)(B)(i) since they will be acquiring one third of the voting securities of the new entity for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). N need not file notification; see § 802.41.
2. In the preceding example “A” has over $10 million (as adjusted) but less than $100 million (as adjusted) in sales and assets, “B” and “C” have less than $10 million (as adjusted) in sales and assets. “N” has total assets of $500 million. Assume that “A” will acquire 50 percent of the voting securities of “N” and “B” and “C” will each acquire 25 percent. Since “A” will acquire in excess of $200 million (as adjusted) in voting securities of “N”, the size-of-person test in § 801.40(c) is inapplicable and “A” is required to file notification.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34434, July 29, 1983; 52 FR 7082, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8690, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4992, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 801.50
Formation of unincorporated entities.
(a) In the formation of an unincorporated entity (other than in connection with a consolidation), even though the persons contributing to the formation of the unincorporated entity and the unincorporated entity itself may, in the formation transaction, be both acquiring and acquired persons within the meaning of § 801.2, the contributors shall be deemed acquiring persons only and the unincorporated entity shall be deemed the acquired person only.
(b) Unless exempted by the Act or any of these rules, upon the formation of an unincorporated entity, in a transaction meeting the criteria of Section 7A(a)(1) and 7A(a)(2)(A) (other than in connection with a consolidation), a person is subject to the requirements of the Act if it acquires control of the newly-formed entity. Unless exempted by the Act or any of these rules, upon the formation of an unincorporated entity, in a transaction meeting the criteria of Section 7A(a)(1), the criteria of Section 7A(a)(2)(B)(i) (other than in connection with a consolidation), a person is subject to the requirements of the Act if:
(1)(i) The acquiring person has annual net sales or total assets of $100 million (as adjusted) or more;
(ii) The newly-formed entity has total assets of $10 million (as adjusted) or more; and
(iii) The acquiring person acquires control of the newly-formed entity; or
(2)(i) The acquiring person has annual net sales or total assets of $10 million (as adjusted) or more;
(ii) The newly-formed entity has total assets of $100 million (as adjusted) or more; and
(iii) The acquiring person acquires control of the newly-formed entity.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the total assets of the newly-formed entity is determined in accordance with § 801.40(d).
(d) Any person acquiring control of the newly-formed entity determines the value of its acquisition in accordance with § 801.10(d).
(e) The commerce criterion of Section 7A(a)(1) is satisfied if either the Activities of any acquiring person are in or affect commerce, or the person filing notification should reasonably believe that the Activities of the newly-formed entity will be in or will affect commerce.

# Example:
A and B form a new partnership (LP) in which each will acquire a 50 percent
interest. A contributes a plant valued at $250 million and $100 million in cash. B contributes $350 million in cash. Because each is acquiring non-corporate interests, valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) which confer control of LP both A and B are acquiring persons in the formation. Each must now determine if the exemption in § 802.4 is applicable to their acquisitions of non-corporate interests in LP. For A, LP's exempt assets consist of all of the cash contributed by A and B (pursuant to § 801.21) and A's contribution of the plant (pursuant to § 802.30(c)). Because all of the assets of LP are exempt with regard to A, A's acquisition of non-corporate interests in LP is exempt under § 802.4. For B, LP's exempt assets include only the cash contributions by A and B. The plant contributed by A, valued at $250 million is not exempt under § 802.30(c) with regard to B. Because LP has non-exempt assets in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) with regard to B, B's acquisition of non-corporate interests in LP is not exempt under § 802.4. B must now value its acquisition of non-corporate interests pursuant to § 801.10(d) and because the value of the non-corporate interests is the same as B's contribution to the formation ($350 million), the value exceeds $200 million (as adjusted) and B must file notification prior to acquiring non-corporate interests in LP. See additional examples following §§ 802.30(c) and 802.4.
[70 FR 11512, Mar. 8, 2005]
§ 801.90
Transactions or devices for avoidance.
Any transaction(s) or other device(s) entered into or employed for the purpose of avoiding the obligation to comply with the requirements of the act shall be disregarded, and the obligation to comply shall be determined by applying the act and these rules to the substance of the transaction.

# Examples:
1. Suppose corporations A and B wish to form a joint venture. A and B contemplate a total investment of over $100 million (as adjusted) in the joint venture; persons “A” and “B” each have total assets in excess of $100 million (as adjusted). Instead of filing notification pursuant to § 801.40, A creates a new subsidiary, A1, which issues half of its authorized shares to A. Assume that A1 has total assets of $3000. “A” then sells 50 percent of its A1 stock to “B” for $1500. Thereafter, “A” and “B” each contribute in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) to A1 in exchange for the remaining authorized A1 stock (one-fourth each to “A” and “B”). A's creation of A1 was exempt under Sec. 802.30; its $1500 sale of A1 stock to “B” did not meet the size-of-transaction filing threshold in Section 7A(a)(2)(B); and the second acquisition of stock in A1 by “A” and “B” was exempt under § 802.30 and Sections 7A(c)(3) and (10). Since this scheme appears to be for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of the act, the sequence of transactions will be disregarded. The transactions will be viewed as the formation of a joint venture corporation by “A” and “B” having over $10 million (as adjusted) in assets. Such a transaction would be covered by § 801.40 and “A” and “B” must file notification and observe the waiting period.
2. Suppose “A” wholly owns and operates a chain of twenty retail hardware stores, each of which is separately incorporated and has assets of less than $10 million. The aggregate fair market value of the assets of the twenty store corporations is in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). “A” proposes to sell the stores to “B” for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). For various reasons it is decided that “B” will buy the stock of each of the store corporations from “A.” Instead of filing notification and observing the waiting period as contemplated by the act, “A” and “B” enter into a series of five stock purchase-sale agreements for $12 million each. Under the terms of each contract, the stock of four stores will pass from “A” to “B”. The five agreements are to be consummated on five successive days. Because after each of these transactions the store corporations are no longer part of the acquired person (§ 801.13(a) does not apply because control has passed, see § 801.2), and because $12 million is below the size-of-transaction filing threshold of Section 7A(a)(2)(B), none of the contemplated acquisitions would be subject to the requirements of the act. However, if the stock of all of the store corporations were to be purchased in one transaction, no exemption would be applicable, and the act's requirements would have to be met. Because it appears that the purpose of making five separate contracts is to avoid the requirements of the act, this section would ignore the form of the separate transactions and consider the substance to be one transaction requiring compliance with the act.
[43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8691, Feb. 1, 2001; 67 FR 11903, Mar. 18, 2002; 70 FR 4992, Jan. 31, 2005]
Pt. 802

# PART 802—EXEMPTION RULES
Sec.
802.1
Acquisitions of goods in the ordinary course of business.
802.2
Certain acquisitions of real property assets.
802.3
Acquisitions of carbon-based mineral reserves.
802.4
Acquisitions of voting securities of issuers or non-corporate interests in unincorporated entities holding certain assets the acquisition of which is exempt.
802.5
Acquisitions of investment rental property assets.
802.6
Federal agency approval.
802.8
Certain supervisory acquisitions.
802.9
Acquisition solely for the purpose of investment.
802.10
Stock dividends and splits; reorganizations.
802.20
[Reserved]
802.21
Acquisitions of voting securities not meeting or exceeding greater notification threshold (as adjusted).
802.23
Amended or renewed tender offers.
802.30
Intraperson transactions.
802.31
Acquisitions of convertible voting securities.
802.35
Acquisitions by employee trusts.
802.40
Exempt formation of corporations or unincorporated entities.
802.41
Corporations or unincorporated entities at time of formation.
802.42
Partial exemption for acquisitions in connection with the formation of certain joint ventures or other corporations.
802.50
Acquisitions of foreign assets.
802.51
Acquisitions of voting securities of a foreign issuer.
802.52
Acquisitions by or from foreign governmental entities.
802.53
Certain foreign banking transactions.
802.60
Acquisitions by securities underwriters.
802.63
Certain acquisitions by creditors and insurers.
802.64
Acquisitions of voting securities by certain institutional investors.
802.65
Exempt acquisition of non-corporate interests in financing transactions.
802.70
Acquisitions subject to order.
802.71
Acquisitions by gift, intestate succession or devise, or by irrevocable trust.
802.80
Transitional rule for transactions investigated by the agencies.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 18a(d).

# Source:
43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 802.1
Acquisitions of goods in the ordinary course of business.
Pursuant to section 7A(c)(1) of the Clayton Act (the “Act”), acquisitions of goods transferred in the ordinary course of business are exempt from the notification requirements of the Act. This section identifies certain acquisitions of goods that are exempt as transfers in the ordinary course of business. This section also identifies certain acquisitions of goods that are not in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, do not qualify for the exemption.
(a)
Operating unit.
An acquisition of all or substantially all the assets of an operating unit is not an acquisition in the ordinary course of business.
Operating unit
means assets that are operated by the acquired person as a business undertaking in a particular location or for particular products or services, even though those assets may not be organized as a separate legal entity.
(b)
New goods.
An acquisition of new goods is in the ordinary course of business, except when the goods are acquired as part of an acquisition described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Current supplies.
An acquisition of current supplies is in the ordinary course of business, except when acquired as part of an acquisition described in paragraph (a) of this section. The term “current supplies” includes the following kinds of new or used assets:
(1) Goods acquired and held solely for the purpose of resale or leasing to an entity not within the acquiring person (e.g., inventory),
(2) Goods acquired for consumption in the acquiring person's business (e.g., office supplies, maintenance supplies or electricity), and
(3) Goods acquired to be incorporated in the final product (e.g., raw materials and components).
(d)
Used durable goods.
A good is “durable” if it is designed to be used repeatedly and has a useful life greater than one year. An acquisition of used durable goods is an acquisition in the ordinary course of business if the goods are not acquired as part of an acquisition described in paragraph (a) of this section and any of the following criteria are met:
(1) The goods are acquired and held solely for the purpose of resale or leasing to an entity not within the acquiring person; or
(2) The goods are acquired from an acquired person who acquired and has held the goods solely for resale or leasing to an entity not within the acquired person; or
(3) The acquired person has replaced, by acquisition or lease, all or substantially all of the productive capacity of the goods being sold within six months of that sale, or the acquired person has in good faith executed a contract to replace within six months after the sale,
by acquisition or lease, all or substantially all of the productive capacity of the goods being sold; or
(4) The goods have been used by the acquired person solely to provide management and administrative support services for its business operations, and the acquired person has in good faith executed a contract to obtain substantially similar services as were provided by the goods being sold. Management and administrative support services include services such as accounting, legal, purchasing, payroll, billing and repair and maintenance of the acquired person's own equipment. Manufacturing, research and development, testing and distribution (i.e., warehousing and transportation) are not considered management and administrative support services.

# Examples:
1. Greengrocer Inc. intends to sell to “A” all of the assets of one of the 12 grocery stores that it owns and operates throughout the metropolitan area of City X. Each of Greengrocer's stores constitutes an operating unit, i.e., a business undertaking in a particular location. Thus “A's” acquisition is not exempt as an acquisition in the ordinary course of business. However, the acquisition will not be subject to the notification requirements if the acquisition price or fair market value of the store's assets does not exceed $50 million (as adjusted).
2. “A,” a manufacturer of airplane engines, agrees to pay in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) to “B,” a manufacturer of airplane parts, for certain new engine components to be used in the manufacture of airplane engines. The acquisition is exempt under § 802.1(b) as new goods as well as under § 802.1(c)(3) as current supplies.
3. “A,” a power generation company, proposes to purchase from “B,” a coal company, in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of coal under a long-term contract for use in its facilities to supply electric power to a regional public utility and steam to several industrial sites. This transaction is exempt under § 802.1(c)(2) as an acquisition of current supplies. However, if “A” proposed to purchase coal reserves rather than enter into a contract to acquire output of a coal mine, the acquisition would not be exempt as an acquisition of goods in the ordinary course of business. The acquisition may still be exempt pursuant to § 802.3(b) as an acquisition of reserves of coal if the requirements of that section are met.
4. “A,” a national producer of canned fruit, preserves, jams and jellies, agrees to purchase from “B” for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) a total of 20,000 acres of orchards and vineyards in several locations throughout the U.S. “A” plans to harvest the fruit from the acreage for use in its canning operations. The acquisition is not exempt under this section because orchards and vineyards are real property, not “goods.” If, on the other hand, “A” had contracted to acquire from “B” the fruit and grapes harvested from the orchards and vineyards, the acquisition would qualify for the exemption as an acquisition of current supplies under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Although the transfer of orchards and vineyards is not exempt under this section, the acquisition could be exempt under § 802.2(g) as an acquisition of agricultural property.
5. “A,” a railcar leasing company, will purchase in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of new railcars from a railcar manufacturer in order to expand its existing fleet of cars available for lease. The transaction is exempt under § 802.1(b) as an acquisition of new goods and § 802.1(c), as an acquisition of current supplies. If “A” subsequently sells the railcars to “C,” a commercial railroad company, that acquisition would be exempt under § 802.1(d)(2), provided that “A” acquired and held the railcars solely for resale or leasing to an entity not within itself.
6. “A,” a major oil company, proposes to sell two of its used oil tankers for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) to “B,” a dealer who purchases oil tankers from the major U.S. oil companies. “B's” acquisition of the used oil tankers is exempt under § 802.1(d)(1) provided that “B” is actually acquiring beneficial ownership of the used tankers and is not acting as an agent of the seller or purchaser.
7. “A,” a cruise ship operator, plans to sell for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) one of its cruise ships to “B,” another cruise ship operator. “A” has, in good faith, executed a contract to acquire a new cruise ship with substantially the same capacity from a manufacturer. The contract specifies that “A” will receive the new cruise ship within one month after the scheduled date of the sale of its used cruise ship to “B.” Since “B” is acquiring a used durable good that “A” has contracted to replace within six months of the sale, the acquisition is exempt under § 802.1(d)(3).
8. “A,” a luxury cruise ship operator, proposes to sell to “B,” a credit company engaged in the ordinary course of its business in lease financing transactions, its fleet of six passenger ships under a 10-year sale/leaseback arrangement. That acquisition is exempt pursuant to § 802.1(d)(1), used durable goods acquired for leasing purposes. The acquisition is also exempt under § 802.63(a) as a bona fide credit transaction entered into in the ordinary course of “B's” business. “B” now proposes to sell the ships, subject to the current lease financing arrangement, to “C,”
another lease financing company. This transaction is exempt under §§ 802.1(d)(1) and 802.1(d)(2).
9. Three months ago “A,” a manufacturing company, acquired several new machines that will replace equipment on one of its production lines. “A's” capacity to produce the same products increased modestly when the integration of the new equipment was completed. “B,” a manufacturing company that produces products similar to those produced by “A,” has entered into a contract to acquire for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) the machinery that “A” replaced. Delivery of the equipment by “A” to “B” is scheduled to occur within thirty days. Since “A” purchased new machinery to replace the productive capacity of the used equipment, which it sold within six months of the purchase of the new equipment, the acquisition by “B” is exempt under § 802.1(d)(3).
10. “A” will sell to “B” for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) all of the equipment “A” uses exclusively to perform its billing requirements. “B” will use the equipment to provide “A's” billing needs pursuant to a contract which “A” and “B” executed 30 days ago in conjunction with the equipment purchase agreement. Although the assets “B” will acquire make up essentially all of the assets of one of “A's” management and administrative support services divisions, the acquisition qualifies for the exemption under § 802.1(d)(4) because a company's internal management and administrative support services, however organized, are not an operating unit as defined by § 802.1(a). Management and administrative support services are not a “business undertaking” as that term is used in § 802.1(a). Rather, they provide support and benefit to the company's operating units and support the company's business operations. However, if the assets being sold also derived revenues from providing billing services for third parties, then the transfer of these assets would not be exempt under § 802.1(d)(4), since the equipment is not being used solely to provide management and administrative support services to “A”.
11. “A,” a manufacturer of pharmaceutical products, and “B” have entered into a contract under which “B” will provide all of “A's” research and development needs. Pursuant to the contract, “B” will also purchase all of the equipment that “A” formerly used to perform its own research and development activities. The sale of the equipment is not an exempt transaction under § 802.1(d)(3) because “A” is not replacing the productive capacity of the equipment being sold. The sale is also not exempt under § 802.1(d)(4), because functions such as research and development and testing are not management and administrative support services of a company but are integral to the design, development or production of the company's products.
12. “A,” an automobile manufacturer, is discontinuing its manufacture of metal seat frames for its cars. “A” enters into a contract with “B,” a manufacturer of various fabricated metal products, to sell its seat frame production lines and to purchase from “B” all of its metal seat frame needs for the next five years. This transfer of productive capacity by “A” is not exempt pursuant to § 802.1(d)(3), since “A” is not replacing the productive capacity of the equipment being sold. The acquisition is also not exempt under § 802.1(d)(4). “A's” sale of production lines is not the transfer of goods that provide management and administrative services to support the business operations of”A”; this manufacturing equipment is an integral part of “A's” production operations.
[61 FR 13684, Mar. 28, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 8691, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4993, Jan. 31, 2005; 83 FR 32770, July 16, 2018]
§ 802.2
Certain acquisitions of real property assets.
(a)
New facilities.
An acquisition of a new facility shall be exempt from the requirements of the act. A new facility is a structure that has not produced income and was either constructed by the acquired person for sale or held at all times by the acquired person solely for resale. The new facility may include realty, equipment or other assets incidental to the ownership of the new facility. In an acquisition that includes a new facility, the transfer of any other assets shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if they were being acquired in a separate acquisition.
(b)
Used facilities.
An acquisition of a used facility shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if the facility is acquired from a lessor that has held title to the facility for financing purposes in the ordinary course of the lessor's business by a lessee that has had sole and continuous possession and use of the facility since it was first built as a new facility. The used facility may include realty, equipment or other assets associated with the operation of the facility. In an acquisition that includes a used facility that meets the requirements of this paragraph, the transfer of any other assets shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if they were acquired in a separate transaction.
(c)
Unproductive real property.
An acquisition of unproductive real property
shall be exempt from the requirements of the act. In an acquisition that includes unproductive real property, the transfer of any assets that are not unproductive real property shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if they were being acquired in a separate acquisition.
(1) Subject to the limitations of (c)(2), unproductive real property is any real property, including raw land, structures or other improvements (but excluding equipment), associated production and exploration assets as defined in § 802.3(c), natural resources and assets incidental to the ownership of the real property, that has not generated total revenues in excess of $5 million during the thirty-six (36) months preceding the acquisition.
(2) Unproductive real property does not include the following:
(i) Manufacturing or non-manufacturing facilities that have not yet begun operation;
(ii) Manufacturing or non-manufacturing facilities that were in operation at any time during the twelve (12) months preceding the acquisition; and
(iii) Real property that is either adjacent to or used in conjunction with real property that is not unproductive real property and is included in the acquisition.
(d)
Office and residential property.
(1) An acquisition of office or residential property shall be exempt from the requirements of the act. In an acquisition that includes office or residential property, the transfer of any assets that are not office or residential property shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if such assets were being transferred in a separate acquisition.
(2) Office and residential property is real property that is used primarily for office or residential purposes. In determining whether real property is used primarily for office or residential purposes, all real property, the acquisition of which is exempt under another provision of the act and these rules, shall be excluded from the determination. Office and residential property includes:
(i) Office buildings,
(ii) Residences,
(iii) Common areas on the property, including parking and recreational facilities, and
(iv) Assets incidental to the ownership of such property, including cash, prepaid taxes or insurance, rental receivables and the like.
(3) If the acquisition includes the purchase of a business conducted on the office and residential property, the transfer of that business, including the space in which the business is conducted, shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if such business were being transferred in a separate acquisition.
(e)
Hotels and motels.
(1) An acquisition of a hotel or motel, its improvements such as golf, swimming, tennis, restaurant, health club or parking facilities (but excluding ski facilities), and assets incidental to the ownership and operation of the hotel or motel (e.g., prepaid taxes or insurance, management contracts and licenses to use trademarks associated with the hotel or motel being acquired) shall be exempt from the requirements of the act. In an acquisition that includes a hotel or motel, the transfer of any assets that are not a hotel or motel, its improvements such as golf, swimming, tennis, restaurant, health club or parking facilities (but excluding ski facilities) and assets incidental to the ownership of the hotel or motel, shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if they were being acquired in a separate acquisition.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of the section, an acquisition of a hotel or motel that includes a gambling casino shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules.
(f)
Recreational land.
An acquisition of recreational land shall be exempt from the requirements of the act. Recreational land is real property used primarily as a golf course or a swimming or tennis club facility, and assets incidental to the ownership of such property. In an acquisition that includes recreational land, the transfer of any property or assets that are not recreational land shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if they were being acquired in a separate acquisition.
(g)
Agricultural property.
An acquisition of agricultural property and assets incidental to the ownership of such property shall be exempt from the requirements of the Act. Agricultural property is real property that primarily generates revenues from the production of crops, fruits, vegetables, livestock, poultry, milk and eggs (certain activities within NAICS sector 11).
(1) Agricultural property does not include either:
(i) Processing facilities such as poultry and livestock slaughtering, processing and packing facilities; or
(ii) Any real property and assets either adjacent to or used in conjunction with processing facilities that are included in the acquisition; or
(iii) Timberland or other real property that generates revenues from activities within NAICS subsector 113 (Forestry and logging) or NAICS industry group 1153 (Support activities for forestry and logging).
(2) In an acquisition that includes agricultural property, the transfer of any assets that are not agricultural property or assets incidental to the ownership of such property (cash, prepaid taxes or insurance, rentals receivable and the like) shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if such assets were being transferred in a separate acquisition.
(h)
Retail rental space; warehouses.
An acquisition of retail rental space (including shopping centers) or warehouses and assets incidental to the ownership of retail rental space or warehouses shall be exempt from the requirements of the act, except when the retail rental space or warehouse is to be acquired in an acquisition of a business conducted on the real property. In an acquisition that includes retail rental space or warehouses, the transfer of any assets that are neither retail rental space nor warehouses shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if such assets were being transferred in a separate acquisition.

# Examples.
1. “A,” a major automobile manufacturer, builds a new automobile plant in anticipation of increased demand for its cars. The market does not improve and “A” never occupies the facility. “A” then sells the facility, which is fully equipped and ready for operation, to “B,” another automobile manufacturer. The acquisition of this plant, including any equipment and assets associated with its operation, is not exempt as an acquisition of a new facility, even though the facility has not produced any income, since “A” did not construct the facility for sale or hold it at all times solely for resale. Also, the acquisition is not exempt as an acquisition of unproductive property, because manufacturing facilities that have not yet begun operations are explicitly excluded from that exemption.
2. “B,” a subsidiary of “A,” a financial institution, acquired a newly constructed power plant, which it leased to “X” pursuant to a lease financing arrangement. “A's” acquisition of the plant through B was exempt under § 802.63(a) as a bona fide credit transaction entered into in the ordinary course of “A's” business. “X” operated the plant as sole lessee for the next eight years and now proposes to exercise an option to buy the plant for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). “X's” acquisition of the plant is exempt pursuant to § 802.2(b). The plant is being acquired from B, the lessor, which held title to the plant for financing purposes, and the purchaser, “X,” has had sole and continuous possession and use of the plant since its construction.
3. “A” proposes to acquire a tract of wilderness land from “B” for consideration in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). Copper deposits valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) and timber reserves valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) are situated on the land and will be conveyed as part of this transaction. During the last three fiscal years preceding the sale, the property generated $50,000 from the sale of a small amount of timber cut from the reserves two years ago. “A's” acquisition of the wilderness land from “B” is exempt as an acquisition of unproductive real property because the property did not generate revenues exceeding $5 million during the thirty-six months preceding the acquisition. The copper deposits and timber reserves are by definition unproductive real property and, thus, are not separately subject to the notification requirements.
4. “A” proposes to purchase from “B” for in excess of $200 million (as adjusted) an old steel mill that is not currently operating to add to “A's” existing steel production capacity. The mill has not generated revenues during the 36 months preceding the acquisition but contains equipment valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) that “A” plans to refurbish for use in its operations. “A's” acquisition of the mill and the land on which it is located is exempt as unproductive real
property. However, the transfer of the equipment and any assets other than the unproductive property is not exempt and is separately subject to the notification requirements of the act.
5. “A” proposes to purchase two downtown lots, Parcels 1 and 2, from “B” for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). Parcel 1, located in the southwest section, contains no structures or improvements. A hotel is located in the northeast section on Parcel 2, and it has generated $9 million in revenues during the past three years. The purchase of Parcel 1 is exempt if it qualifies as unproductive real property, i.e., it has not generated annual revenues in excess of $5 million in the three fiscal years prior to the acquisition. Parcel 2 is not unproductive real property, but its acquisition is exempt under § 802.2(e) as the acquisition of a hotel.
6. “A” plans to purchase from “B,” a manufacturer, a newly-constructed building that “B” had intended to equip for use in its manufacturing operations. “B” was unable to secure financing to purchase the necessary equipment and “A”, also a manufacturer, will be required to invest in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) in order to equip the building for use in its production operations. This building is not a new facility under § 802.2 (a), because it was not constructed or held by “B” for sale or resale. However, the acquisition of the building qualifies for exemption as unproductive real property pursuant to § 802.2(c)(1). The building is not yet a manufacturing facility since it does not contain equipment and requires significant capital investment before it can be used as a manufacturing facility.
7. “A” proposes to purchase from “B,” for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted), a 100 acre parcel of land that includes a currently operating factory occupying 10 acres. The other 90 adjoining acres are vacant and unimproved and are used by “B” for storage of supplies and equipment. The factory and the unimproved acreage have an aggregate fair market value of in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). The transaction is not exempt under § 802.2(c) because the vacant property is adjacent to property occupied by the operating factory. Moreover, if the 90 acres were not adjacent to the 10 acres occupied by the factory, the transaction would not be exempt because the 90 acres are being used in conjunction with the factory being acquired and thus are not unproductive property.
8. “X” proposes to buy a five-story building from “Y.” The ground floor of this building houses a department store, and “X” currently leases the third floor to operate a medical laboratory. The remaining three floors are used for offices. “X” is not acquiring the business of the department store. Because the ground floor is rental retail space, the acquisition of which is exempt under § 802.2(h), this part of the building is excluded from the determination of whether the building is used primarily for office purposes. The laboratory is therefore the only non-office use, and, since it makes up 25 percent of the remainder of the building, the building is used 75 percent for offices. Thus the building qualifies as an office building and its acquisition is therefore exempt under § 802.2(d).
9. “A” intends to acquire three shopping centers from “B” for a total of in excess of $200 million (as adjusted). The anchor stores in two of the shopping centers are department stores, the businesses of which “A” is buying from “B” as part of the overall transaction. The acquisition of the shopping centers is an acquisition of retail rental space that is exempt under § 802.2(h). However, “A's” acquisition of the department store businesses, including the portion of the shopping centers that the two department stores being purchased occupy, are separately subject to the notification requirements. If the value of these assets exceeds $50 million (as adjusted), “A” must comply with the requirements of the act for this part of the transaction.
10. “A” wishes to purchase from “B” a parcel of land for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). The parcel contains a race track and a golf course. The golf course qualifies as recreational land pursuant to § 802.2(f), but the race track is not included in the exemption. Therefore, if the value of the race track is more than $50 million (as adjusted), “A” will have to file notification for the purchase of the race track.
11. “A” intends to purchase a poultry farm from “B.” The acquisition of the poultry farm is a transfer of agricultural property that is exempt pursuant to § 802.2(g). If, however, “B” has a poultry slaughtering and processing facility on his farm that is included in the acquisition, “A's” acquisition of the farm is not exempt as an acquisition of agricultural property because agricultural property does not include property or assets adjacent to or used in conjunction with a processing facility that is included in an acquisition.
12. “A” proposes to purchase the prescription drug wholesale distribution business of “B” for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). The business includes six regional warehouses used for “B's” national wholesale drug distribution business. Since “A” is acquiring the warehouses in connection with the acquisition of “B's” prescription drug wholesale distribution business, the acquisition of the warehouses is not exempt.
[61 FR 13686, Mar. 28, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 8692, Feb. 1, 2001; 66 FR 23565, May 9, 2001; 67 FR 11903, Mar. 18, 2002; 70 FR 4993, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11513, Mar. 8, 2005]
§ 802.3
Acquisitions of carbon-based mineral reserves.
(a) An acquisition of reserves of oil, natural gas, shale or tar sands, or rights to reserves of oil, natural gas, shale or tar sands together with associated exploration or production assets shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if the value of the reserves, the rights and the associated exploration or production assets to be held as a result of the acquisition does not exceed $500 million. In an acquisition that includes reserves of oil, natural gas, shale or tar sands, or rights to reserves of oil, natural gas, shale or tar sands and associated exploration or production assets, the transfer of any other assets shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if they were being acquired in a separate acquisition.
(b) An acquisition of reserves of coal, or rights to reserves of coal and associated exploration or production assets, shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if the value of the reserves, the rights and the associated exploration or production assets to be held as a result of the acquisition does not exceed $200 million. In an acquisition that includes reserves of coal, rights to reserves of coal and associated exploration or production assets, the transfer of any other assets shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if they were being acquired in a separate acquisition.
(c) Associated exploration or production assets means equipment, machinery, fixtures and other assets that are integral and exclusive to current or future exploration or production activities associated with the carbon-based mineral reserves that are being acquired. Associated exploration or production assets do not include the following:
(1) Any pipeline and pipeline system or processing facility which transports or processes oil and gas after it passes through the meters of a producing field located within reserves that are being acquired; and
(2) Any pipeline or pipeline system that receives gas directly from gas wells for transportation to a natural gas processing facility or other destination.

# Examples:
1. “A” proposes to purchase from “B” for $550 million gas reserves that are not yet in production and have not generated any income. “A” will also acquire from “B” for $280 million producing oil reserves and associated assets such as wells, compressors, pumps and other equipment. The acquisition of the gas reserves is exempt as a transfer of unproductive property under § 802.2(c). The acquisition of the oil reserves and associated assets is exempt pursuant to § 802.3(a), since the value of the reserves and associated assets does not exceed the $500 million limitation.
2. “A,” an oil company, proposes to acquire for $180 million oil reserves currently in production along with field pipelines and treating and metering facilities which serve such reserves exclusively. The acquisition of the reserves and the associated assets are exempt. “A” will also acquire from “B” for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) a natural gas processing plant and its associated gathering pipeline system. This acquisition is not exempt since § 802.3(c) excludes these assets from the exemption in § 802.3 for transfers of associated exploration or production assets.
3. “A,” an oil company, proposes to acquire a coal mine currently in operation and associated production assets for $90 million from “B,” an oil company. “A” will also purchase from “B” producing oil reserves valued at $100 million and an oil refinery valued at $13 million. The acquisition of the coal mine and the oil reserves is exempt pursuant to § 802.3. Although § 802.3(c) excludes the refinery from the exemption in § 802.3 for transfers of associated exploration and production assets, “A's” acquisition of the refinery is not subject to the notification requirements of the act because its value does not exceed $50 million (as adjusted).
4. “X” proposes to acquire from “Z” coal reserves which, together with associated exploration assets, are valued at $230 million. Since the value of the reserves and the assets exceeds the $200 million limitation in § 802.3(b), this transaction is not exempt under § 802.3. However, if the coal reserves qualify as unproductive property under the requirements of § 802.2(c), their acquisition, along with the acquisition of their associated assets, would be exempt.
[61 FR 13688, Mar. 28, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 8692, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4994, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 802.4
Acquisitions of voting securities of issuers or non-corporate interests in unincorporated entities holding certain assets the acquisition of which is exempt.
(a) An acquisition of voting securities of an issuer or non-corporate interests in an unincorporated entity whose
assets together with those of all entities it controls consist or will consist of assets whose acquisition is exempt from the requirements of the Act pursuant to section 7A(c) of the Act, this part 802, or pursuant to § 801.21, is exempt from the reporting requirements if the acquired issuer or unincorporated entity and all entities it controls do not hold non-exempt assets with an aggregate fair market value of more than $50 million (as adjusted). The value of voting or non-voting securities of any other issuer or interests in any unincorporated entity not included within the acquired issuer or unincorporated entity does not count toward the $50 million (as adjusted) limitation for non-exempt assets.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the assets of all issuers and unincorporated entities that are being acquired from the same acquired person are included in determining if the limitation for non-exempt assets is exceeded.
(c) In connection with paragraph (a) of this section and § 801.15 (b), the value of the assets of an issuer whose voting securities or an unincorporated entity whose non-corporate interests are being acquired pursuant to this section shall be the fair market value, determined in accordance with § 801.10(c).

# Examples:
1. “A,” a real estate investment company, proposes to purchase 100 percent of the voting securities of C, a wholly-owned subsidiary of “B,” a construction company. C's assets are a newly constructed, never occupied hotel, including fixtures, furnishings and insurance policies. The acquisition of the hotel would be exempt under § 802.2(a) as a new facility and under § 802.2(d). Therefore, the acquisition of the voting securities of C is exempt pursuant to § 802.4(a) since C holds assets whose direct purchase would be exempt under § 802.2 and does not hold non-exempt assets exceeding $50 million (as adjusted) in value.
2. “A” proposes to acquire 60 percent of the voting securities of C from “B.” C's assets consist of a portfolio of mortgages valued at $55 million and a small manufacturing plant valued at $26 million. The manufacturing plant is an operating unit for purposes of § 802.1(a). Since the acquisition of the mortgages would be exempt pursuant to Section 7A(c)(2) of the act and since the value of the non-exempt manufacturing plant is less than $50 million (as adjusted), this acquisition is exempt under § 802.4(a).
3. “A” proposes to acquire from “B” 100 percent of the voting securities of each of three issuers, M, N and O, simultaneously. M's assets consist of oil reserves worth $160 million and coal reserves worth $40 million. N has assets consisting of $130 million of gas reserves and $100 million of coal reserves. O's assets are oil shale reserves worth $140 million and a coal mine worth $80 million. Since “A” is simultaneously acquiring the voting securities of three issuers from the same acquired person, it must aggregate the assets of the issuers to determine if any of the limitations in § 802.3 is exceeded. As a result of aggregating the assets of M, N and O, “A's” holdings of oil and gas reserves are below the $500 limitation for such assets in § 802.3(a). However, the aggregated holdings exceed the $200 million limitation for coal reserves in § 802.3(b). “A's” acquisition therefore is not exempt, and it must report the entire transaction.
[61 FR 13688, Mar. 28, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 8693, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4994, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11513, Mar. 8, 2005; 76 FR 42482, July 19, 2011]
§ 802.5
Acquisitions of investment rental property assets.
(a) Acquisitions of investment rental property assets shall be exempt from the requirements of the act.
(b) Investment rental property assets. “Investment rental property assets” means real property that will not be rented to entities included within the acquiring person except for the sole purpose of maintaining, managing or supervising the operation of the real property, and will be held solely for rental or investment purposes. In an acquisition that includes investment rental property assets, the transfer of any property or assets that are not investment rental property assets shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if they were being acquired in a separate transaction. Investment rental property assets include:
(1) Property currently rented,
(2) Property held for rent but not currently rented,
(3) Common areas on the property, and
(4) Assets incidental to the ownership of property, which may include cash, prepaid taxes or insurance, rental receivables and the like.

# Example:
1. “X”, a corporation, proposes to purchase a sports/entertainment complex which it will rent to professional sports
teams and promoters of special events for concerts, ice shows, sporting events and other entertainment activities. “X” will provide office space in the complex for “Y”, a management company which will maintain and manage the facility for “X.” This acquisition is an exempt acquisition of investment rental property assets since “X” intends to rent the facility to third parties and is providing space within the facility to a management company solely to maintain, manage or supervise the operation of the facility on its behalf. If, however, “X” controls Z, a concert promoter to whom it also intends to rent the complex, the acquisition would not be exempt under § 802.5, since the property would not meet the requirements of § 802.5(b)(1).
2. “X” intends to buy from “Y” a development commonly referred to as an industrial park. The industrial park contains a warehouse/distribution center, a retail tire and automobile parts store, an office building, and a small factory. The industrial park also contains several parcels of vacant land. If “X” intends to acquire this industrial park as investment rental property, the acquisition will be exempt pursuant to § 802.5. If, however, “X” intends to use the factory for its own manufacturing operations, this exemption would be unavailable. The exemptions in § 802.2 for warehouses, rental retail space, office buildings, and undeveloped land may still apply and, if the value of the factory is $50 million (as adjusted) or less, the entire transaction may be exempted by that section.
[61 FR 13688, Mar. 28, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 8693, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4994, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 802.6
Federal agency approval.
(a) For the purposes of section 7A (c)(6) and (c)(8), the term
information and documentary material
includes one copy of all documents, application forms, and all written submissions of any type whatsoever. In lieu of providing all such information and documentary material, or any portion thereof, one copy of an index describing such information and documentary material may be provided, together with a certification that any such information or documentary material not provided will be provided within 10 calendar days upon request by the Federal Trade Commission or Assistant Attorney General, or a delegated official of either. Any material submitted pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the offices specified in § 803.10(c).
(b)(1) A mixed transaction is one that has some portion that is exempt under Section 7A (c)(6), (c)(7) or (c)(8) because it requires regulatory agency premerger competitive review and approval, and another portion that does not require such review.
(2) The portion of a mixed transaction that does not require advance competitive review and approval by a regulatory agency is subject to the act and these rules as if it were being acquired in a separate acquisition.

# Example:
Bank “A” acquires Bank “B”, which owns a financial subsidiary engaged in securities underwriting. “A”'s acquisition of “B” requires agency approval by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (depending on whether “A” is a national bank, state member bank, or state non-member bank under section 18(c) of the FDI Act), and therefore is exempt from filing under Section 7A (c)(7). However, the acquisition of the financial subsidiary is subject to HSR reporting requirements, and “A” and “B” each must make a filing for that portion of the transaction and observe the waiting period if the act's thresholds are met.
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34435, July 29, 1983; 66 FR 8693, Feb. 1, 2001; 67 FR 11903, Mar. 18, 2002]
§ 802.8
Certain supervisory acquisitions.
(a) A merger, consolidation, purchase of assets, or acquisition requiring agency approval under sections 403 or 408(e) of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1726, 1730a(e), or under section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, 12 U.S.C. 1464, shall be exempt from the requirements of the act, including specifically the filing requirement of Section 7A(c)(8), if the agency whose approval is required finds that approval of such merger, consolidation, purchase of assets, or acquisition is necessary to prevent the probable failure of one of the institutions involved.
(b)(1) A merger, consolidation, purchase of assets, or acquisition which requires agency approval under 12 U.S.C. 1817(j) or 12 U.S.C. 1730(q) shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if copies of all information and documentary materials filed with any such agency are contemporaneously
filed with the Federal Trade Commission and the Assistant Attorney General at least 30 days prior to consummation of the proposed acquisition.
(2) A transaction described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be exempt from the requirements of the act, including specifically the filing requirement, if the agency whose approval is required finds that approval of such transaction is necessary to prevent the probable failure of one of the institutions involved.
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34436, July 29, 1983; 67 FR 11903, Mar. 18, 2002]
§ 802.9
Acquisition solely for the purpose of investment.
An acquisition of voting securities shall be exempt from the requirements of the act pursuant to section 7A(c)(9) if made solely for the purpose of investment and if, as a result of the acquisition, the acquiring person would hold ten percent or less of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer, regardless of the dollar value of voting securities so acquired or held.

# Examples:
1. Suppose that acquiring person “A” acquires 6 percent of the voting securities of issuer X, valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). If the acquisition is solely for the purpose of investment, it is exempt under Section 7A(c)(9).
2. After the acquisition in example 1, “A” decides to acquire an additional 7 percent of the voting securities of X. Regardless of “A” 's intentions, the acquisition is not exempt under section 7A(c)(9).
3. After the acquisition in example 1, acquiring person “A” decides to participate in the management of issuer X. Any subsequent acquisitions of X stock by “A” would not be exempt under section 7A(c)(9).
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8693, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4994, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 802.10
Stock dividends and splits; reorganizations.
(a) The acquisition of voting securities pursuant to a stock split or pro rata stock dividend is exempt from the requirements of the Act under section 7A(c)(10).
(b) An acquisition of non-corporate interests or voting securities as a result of the conversion of a corporation or unincorporated entity into a new entity is exempt from the requirements of the Act if:
(1) No new assets will be contributed to the new entity as a result of the conversion; and
(2) Either:
(i) As a result of the transaction the acquiring person does not increase its per centum holdings in the new entity relative to its per centum holdings in the original entity; or
(ii) The acquiring person controlled the original entity.

# Examples:
1. Partners A and B hold 60 percent and 40 percent respectively of the partnership interests in C. C is converted to a corporation in which A and B hold 60 percent and 40 percent respectively of the voting securities. No new assets are contributed. The conversion to a corporation is exempt from notification for both A and B.
2. Shareholder A holds 55% and B holds 45% of the voting securities of corporation C. C is converted to a limited liability company in which A holds 60% and B holds 40% of the membership interests. No new assets are contributed. The conversion to a limited liability company is exempt from notification because A controlled the corporation. If however, B holds 55% and A holds 45% in the new limited liability company, the conversion is not exempt for B and may require notification because control changes.
3. Shareholders A, B and C each hold one third of the voting securities of corporation X. Pursuant to a reorganization agreement, A and B each contribute new assets to X and C contributes cash. X is then being reincorporated in a new state. Each of A, B and C receive one third of the voting securities of newly reincorporated C. The reincorporation is not exempt from notification and may be reportable for A, B and C because of the contribution of new assets.
[70 FR 11513, Mar. 8, 2005]
§ 802.20
[Reserved]
§ 802.21
Acquisitions of voting securities not meeting or exceeding greater notification threshold (as adjusted).
(a) An acquisition of voting securities shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if:
(1) The acquiring person and all other persons required by the act and these rules to file notification filed notification with respect to an earlier acquisition of voting securities of the same issuer;
(2) The waiting period with respect to the earlier acquisition has expired, or been terminated pursuant to § 803.11, and the acquisition will be consummated within 5 years of such expiration or termination; and
(3) The acquisition will not increase the holdings of the acquiring person to meet or exceed a notification threshold (as adjusted) greater than the greatest notification threshold met or exceeded in the earlier acquisition.

# Examples:
1. In 2004, Corporation A acquired $53 million of the voting securities of corporation B and both “A” and “B” filed notification as required, indicating the $50 million threshold. Within five years of the expiration of the original waiting period, “A” acquires additional voting securities of B but not in an amount sufficient to meet or exceed $100 million (as adjusted) or 50 percent of the voting securities of B. No additional notification is required.
2. In 2004, Corporation A acquired $53 million of the voting securities of corporation B and both “A” and “B” filed notification as required, indicating the $50 million threshold. Suppose that in year three following the expiration of the waiting period, the $50 million notification threshold has been adjusted to $56 million pursuant to Section 7A(a)(2)(a) of the Act. “A” now intends to acquire an additional $5 million of the voting securities of B. “A” is not required to file another notification even though it now holds voting securities in excess of the $56 million notification threshold (which is greater than the $50 million notification threshold indicated in its filing), because it has not met or exceeded a notification threshold (as adjusted) greater than the notification threshold exceeded in the earlier acquisition (i.e. $100 million (as adjusted) or 50% notification thresholds).
3. Same facts as in Example 2 above except now the five year period has expired. Suppose that, the $50 million notification threshold has been adjusted to $57 million pursuant to Section 7A(a)(2)(a) of the Act. “A” now holds $58 million of voting securities of B. Because § 802.21(a)(2) is no longer satisfied, the acquisition of any additional voting securities of B will require a new filing because “A” will hold voting securities valued in excess of the $57 million notification threshold. If, however, the $50 million notification threshold had been adjusted to $60 million at the end of the five-year period, A could acquire up to that threshold without a new filing.
4. This section also allows a person to recross any of the threshold notification levels that were in effect at the time of filing notification any number of times within five years of the expiration of the waiting period following notification. Thus, if in Example 1, “A” had disposed of some voting securities so that it held less than $50 million of the voting securities of B, and thereafter had increased its holdings to more than $50 million but less than $100 million or 50 percent of B, notification would not be required if the increase occurred within 5 years of the expiration of the original waiting period.
5. A files notification at the $50 million notification threshold and acquires $51 million of the voting securities of B in the year following expiration of the waiting period. The next greater notification threshold at the time of filing was $100 million. In year three, the $100 million notification threshold has been adjusted to $106 million. A can now acquire up to, but not meet or exceed, voting securities of B valued at $106 million. As the original $100 million threshold is adjusted upward in years four and five, A can acquire up to those new thresholds as the adjustments are effected.
6. A files notification at the $50 million threshold in January of year one. In February of year one, the $50 million threshold is adjusted to $52 million. A only needs to acquire in excess of $50 million of voting securities of B, not in excess of $52 million, to have exceeded the threshold which was filed for in the year following expiration of the waiting period (see § 803.7). It may then acquire up to the next greater notification threshold (as adjusted) during the five years following expiration of the waiting period.
(b) [Reserved]
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8693, Feb. 1, 2001; 67 FR 11906, Mar. 18, 2002; 70 FR 4995, Jan. 31, 2005; 76 FR 42482, July 19, 2011]
§ 802.23
Amended or renewed tender offers.
Whenever a tender offer is amended or renewed after notification has been filed by the offeror, no new notification shall be required, and the running of the waiting period shall be unaffected, except as follows:
(a) If the number of voting securities to be acquired pursuant to the offer is increased such that a greater notification threshold would be met or exceeded, only the acquiring person need again file notification, but a new waiting period must be observed;
(b) If a noncash tender offer is amended to become a cash tender offer, (1) one copy of the amended tender offer shall be filed in the manner prescribed by § 803.10(c) with the Federal Trade Commission and Assistant Attorney General, and (2) subject to the
provisions of § 803.10(b)(1), the waiting period shall expire on the 15th day after the date of receipt (determined in accordance with § 803.10(c)) of the amended tender offer, or on the 30th day after filing notification, whichever is earlier; or
(c) If a cash tender offer is amended to become a noncash tender offer, (1) one copy of the amended tender offer shall be filed in the manner prescribed by § 803.10(c) with the Federal Trade Commission and Assistant Attorney General, and (2) subject to the provisions of § 803.10(b)(1), the waiting period shall expire on the 15th day after the date of receipt (as determined in accordance with § 803.10(c)) of the amended tender offer, or on the 30th day after filing notification, whichever is later.

# Examples:
1. Assume that corporation A makes a tender offer for 20 percent of the voting securities of corporation B and that “A” files notification. Under this section, if A subsequently amends its tender offer only as to the amount of consideration offered, the waiting period so commenced is not affected, and no new notification need be filed.
2. In the previous example, assume that A makes an amended tender offer for 27 percent of the voting securities of B, valued at greater than $1 billion. Since a new notification threshold will be crossed, this section requires that “A” must again file notification and observe a new waiting period. Paragraph (a) of this section, however, provides that “B” need not file notification again.
3. Assume that “A” makes a tender offer for shares of corporation B. “A” includes its voting securities as part of the consideration. “A” files notification. Five days later, “A” changes its tender offer to a cash tender offer, and on the same day files copies of its amended tender offer with the offices designated in § 803.10(c). Under paragraph (b) of this section, the waiting period expires (unless extended or terminated) 15 days after the receipt of the amended offer (on the 20th day after filing notification), since that occurs earlier than the expiration of the original waiting period (which would occur on the 30th day after filing).
4. Assume that “A” makes a cash tender offer for shares of corporation B and files notification. Six days later, “A” amends the tender offer and adds voting securities as consideration, and on the same day files copies of the amended tender offer with the offices designated in § 803.10(c). Under paragraph (c) of this section, the waiting period expires (unless extended or terminated) on the 30th day following the date of filing of notification (determined under § 803.10(c)), since that occurs later than the 15th day after receipt of the amended tender offer (which would occur on the 21st day).
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978; 43 FR 36054, Aug. 15, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8694, Feb. 1, 2001]
§ 802.30
Intraperson transactions.
(a) An acquisition (other than the formation of a corporation or unincorporated entity under § 801.40 or § 801.50 of this chapter) in which the acquiring and at least one of the acquired persons are, the same person by reason of § 801.1(b)(1) of this chapter, or in the case of a not-for-profit corporation which has no outstanding voting securities, by reason of § 801.1(b)(2) of this chapter, is exempt from the requirements of the Act.

# Examples to paragraph (a):
1. A and B each have the right to 50% of the profits of partnership X. A also holds 100% of the voting securities of corporation Y. A pays B in excess of $50 million in cash (as adjusted) and transfers certain assets of X to Y. Because A is the acquiring person through its control of Y, pursuant to § 801.1(b)(1)(i), and one of the acquired persons through its control of X pursuant to § 801.1(b)(1)(ii), the acquisition of assets is exempt under § 802.30(a).
2. A and B each have the right to 50% of the profits of partnership X. A contributes assets to X valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). B contributes cash to X. Because B is an acquiring person but not an acquired person, its acquisition of the assets contributed to X by A is not exempt under § 802.30(a). However, A is both an acquiring and acquired person, and its acquisition of the assets it is contributing to X is exempt under § 802.30(a).
(b) The formation of any wholly owned entity is exempt from the requirements of the Act.
(c) For purposes of applying § 802.4(a) to an acquisition that may be reportable under § 801.40 or § 801.50, assets, voting securities, or non-corporate interests contributed by the acquiring person to a new entity upon its formation are assets, voting securities, or non- corporate interests whose acquisition by that acquiring person is exempt from the requirements of the Act.

# Examples to paragraph (c):
1. A and B form a new partnership to which A contributes a manufacturing plant valued at $102 million and acquires a 51% interest in the partnership. B contributes $98 million in cash and acquires a 49% interest. B is not acquiring non-corporate interests which confer control
of the partnership and therefore is not making a reportable acquisition. A is acquiring non-corporate interests which confer control of the partnership, however, the manufacturing plant it is contributing to the formation is exempt under § 802.30(c) and the cash contributed by B is excluded under § 801.21, therefore, the acquisition of non-corporate interests by A is exempt under § 802.4.
2. A and B form a new corporation to which A contributes a plant valued at $120 million and acquires 60% of the voting securities of the new corporation. B contributes a plant valued at $80 million and acquires 40% of the voting securities of the new corporation. While the assets contributed to the formation are exempted by § 802.30(c) for each of A and B, the new corporation holds more than $50 million (as adjusted) in non-exempt assets (the plant contributed by the other person) with respect to both acquisitions. A is now acquiring voting securities of an issuer which holds $80 million in non-exempt assets (the plant contributed by B), and B is acquiring voting securities of an issuer which holds $120 million in non-exempt assets (the plant contributed by A). Therefore neither acquisition of voting securities is exempt under § 802.4. Note that in contrast to the formation of the partnership in Example 1, B is not required to acquire a controlling interest in the corporation in order to have a reportable transaction.
3. A and B form a 50/50 partnership. A contributes a plant valued at $100 million and B contributes a plant valued at $40 million and $60 million in cash. Because with respect to A, the new partnership has non-exempt assets of $40 million (the plant contributed by B), A's acquisition of non-corporate interests is exempt under § 802.4. With respect to B, the new partnership holds in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) in non-exempt assets (the plant contributed by A), therefore B's acquisition of non-corporate interests would not be exempt under § 802.4.
[70 FR 11513, Mar. 8, 2005, as amended at 83 FR 32771, July 16, 2018]
§ 802.31
Acquisitions of convertible voting securities.
Acquisitions of convertible voting securities shall be exempt from the requirements of the act.

# Example:
This section applies regardless of the dollar value of the convertible voting securities held or to be acquired. Note, however, that subsequent conversions of convertible voting securities may be subject to the requirements of the act. See § 801.32.
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8694, Feb. 1, 2001]
§ 802.35
Acquisitions by employee trusts.
An acquisition of voting securities shall be exempt from the notification requirements of the act if:
(a) The securities are acquired by a trust that meets the qualifications of section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code;
(b) The trust is controlled by a person that employs the beneficiaries and,
(c) The voting securities acquired are those of that person or an entity within that person.

# Examples:
1. Company A establishes a trust for its employees that meets the qualifications of section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code. Company A has the power to designate the trustee of the trust. That trust then acquires 30% of the voting securities of Company A for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). Later, the trust acquires 20% of the stock of Company B, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Company A, for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). Neither acquisition is reportable.
2. Assume that in the example above, “A” has total assets of $100 million (as adjusted). “C” also has total assets of $100 million (as adjusted) and is not controlled by Company A. The trust controlled by Company A plans to acquire 40 percent of the voting securities of Company C for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). Since Company C is not included within “A,” “A” must observe the requirements of the act before the trust makes the acquisition of Company C's shares.
[52 FR 7082, Mar. 6, 1987, as amended at 66 FR 8694, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4995, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 802.40
Exempt formation of corporations or unincorporated entities.
The formation of an entity is exempt from the requirements of the Act if the entity will be not-for-profit within the meaning of sections 501(c)(1)-(4), (6)-(15), (17)-(20) or (d) of the Internal Revenue Code.
[70 FR 11514, Mar. 8, 2005]
§ 802.41
Corporations or unincorporated entities at time of formation.
Whenever any person(s) contributing to the formation of an entity are subject to the requirements of the Act by reason of § 801.40 or § 801.50 of this chapter, the new entity need not file the notification required by the Act and § 803.1 of this chapter.

# Examples:
1. Corporations A and B, each having sales of in excess of $100 million (as adjusted), each propose to contribute in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) in assets in exchange for 50 percent of the voting securities of a new corporation, N. Under this section, the new corporation need not file notification, although both A and B must do so and observe the waiting period prior to receiving any voting securities of N.
2. In addition to the facts in Example 1 of this section, A and B have agreed that upon creation N will purchase 100 percent of the voting securities of corporation C for in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). Because N's purchase of C is not a transaction in connection with N's formation, and because in any event C is not a contributor to the formation of N, “A,” “B” and “C” must file with respect to the proposed acquisition of C and must observe the waiting period.
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 7082, Mar. 6, 1987; 70 FR 4995, Jan. 31, 2005; 70 FR 11514, Mar. 8, 2005; 83 FR 32771, July 16, 2018]
§ 802.42
Partial exemption for acquisitions in connection with the formation of certain joint ventures or other corporations.
(a) Whenever one or more of the contributors in the formation of a joint venture or other corporation which otherwise would be subject to the requirements of the act by reason of § 801.40 are exempt from these requirements under section 7A(c)(8), any other contributor in the formation which is subject to the act and not exempt under section 7A(c)(8) need not file a Notification and Report Form, provided that no less than 30 days prior to the date of consummation any such contributor claiming this exemption has submitted an affidavit to the Federal Trade Commission and to the Assistant Attorney General stating its good faith intention to make the proposed acquisition and asserting the applicability of this exemption.
(b) Persons relieved of the requirement to file a Notification and Report Form pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section remain subject to all other provisions of the act and these rules.
[48 FR 34436, July 29, 1983]
§ 802.50
Acquisitions of foreign assets.
(a) The acquisition of assets located outside the United States shall be exempt from the requirements of the act unless the foreign assets the acquiring person would hold as a result of the acquisition generated sales in or into the U.S. exceeding $50 million (as adjusted) during the acquired person's most recent fiscal year.
(b) Where the foreign assets being acquired exceed the threshold in paragraph (a) of this section, the acquisition nevertheless shall be exempt where:
(1) Both acquiring and acquired persons are foreign;
(2) The aggregate sales of the acquiring and acquired persons in or into the United States are less than $110 million (as adjusted) in their respective most recent fiscal years;
(3) The aggregate total assets of the acquiring and acquired persons located in the United States (other than investment assets, voting or nonvoting securities of another person, and assets included pursuant to § 801.40(d)(2) of this chapter) are less than $110 million (as adjusted); and
(4) The transaction does not meet the criteria of Section 7A(a)(2)(A).

# Example to § 802.50:
1. Assume that “A” and “B” are both U.S. persons. “A” proposes selling to “B” a manufacturing plant located abroad. Sales in or into the United States attributable to the plant totaled $13 million in the most recent fiscal year. The transaction is exempt under this paragraph (a) of this section.
2. Sixty days after the transaction in example 1, “A” proposes to sell to “B” a second manufacturing plant located abroad; sales in or into the United States attributable to this plant, when combined with the sales into the United States of the first plant, totaled in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) in the most recent fiscal year. Since “B” would be acquiring the second plant within 180 days of the first plant, both plants would be considered assets of “A” held by “B” as a result of the second acquisition (see § 801.13(b)(2) of this chapter). Since the total sales in or into the United States exceed $50 million (as adjusted), the acquisition of the second plant would not be exempt under this paragraph (a) of this section.
3. Assume that “A” and “B” are foreign persons with aggregate sales in or into the United States of in excess of $110 million (as adjusted). If “A” acquires only foreign assets of “B,” and if those assets generated $50 million (as adjusted) or less in sales in or into the United States, the transaction is exempt.
4. Assume that “A” and “B” are foreign persons with aggregate sales in or into the United States and assets located in the
United Sates of less than $110 million (as adjusted). If “A” acquires only foreign assets of “B,” and those assets generated in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) in sales in or into the United States during the most recent fiscal year, the transaction is exempt from reporting if the assets are valued at $200 million (as adjusted) or less, but is reportable if valued at greater than $200 million (as adjusted).
[67 FR 11903, Mar. 18, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 4995, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 802.51
Acquisitions of voting securities of a foreign issuer.
(a)
By U.S. persons.
(1) The acquisition of voting securities of a foreign issuer by a U.S. person shall be exempt from the requirements of the act unless the issuer (including all entities controlled by the issuer) either: holds assets located in the United States (other than investment assets, voting or nonvoting securities of another person, and assets included pursuant to § 801.40(d)(2) of this chapter) having an aggregate total value of over $50 million (as adjusted); or made aggregate sales in or into the United States of over $50 million (as adjusted) in its most recent fiscal year.
(2) If interests in multiple foreign issuers are being acquired from the same acquired person, the assets located in the United States and sales in or into the United States of all the issuers must be aggregated to determine whether either $50 million (as adjusted) limitation is exceeded.
(b)
By foreign persons.
(1) The acquisition of voting securities of a foreign issuer by a foreign person shall be exempt from the requirements of the act unless the acquisition will confer control of the issuer and the issuer (including all entities controlled by the issuer) either: holds assets located in the United States (other than investment assets, voting or nonvoting securities of another person, and assets included pursuant to § 801.40(d)(2) of this chapter) having an aggregate total value of over $50 million (as adjusted); or made aggregate sales in or into the United States of over $50 million (as adjusted) in its most recent fiscal year.
(2) If controlling interests in multiple foreign issuers are being acquired from the same acquired person, the assets located in the United States and sales in or into the United States of all the issuers must be aggregated to determine whether either $50 million (as adjusted) limitation is exceeded.
(c) Where a foreign issuer whose securities are being acquired exceeds the threshold in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the acquisition nevertheless shall be exempt where:
(1) Both acquiring and acquired persons are foreign;
(2) The aggregate sales of the acquiring and acquired persons in or into the United States are less than $110 million (as adjusted) in their respective most recent fiscal years;
(3) The aggregate total assets of the acquiring and acquired persons located in the United States (other than investment assets, voting or nonvoting securities of another person, and assets included pursuant to § 801.40(d)(2) of this chapter) are less than $110 million (as adjusted); and
(4) The transaction does not meet the criteria of Section 7A(a)(2)(A).

# Example to § 802.51
1. “A,” a U.S. person, is to acquire the voting securities of C, a foreign issuer. C has no assets in the United States, but made aggregate sales into the United States of in excess of 50 million (as adjusted) in the most recent fiscal year. The transaction is not exempt under this section.
2. Assume that “A” and “B” are foreign persons with aggregate sales in or into the United States in excess of $110 million (as adjusted), and that “A” is acquiring 100% of the voting securities of “B.” Included within “B” is U.S. issuer C, whose total U.S. assets are valued in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). Since “A” will be acquiring control of an issuer, C, with total U.S. assets of more than $50 million (as adjusted), and the parties' aggregate sales in or into the U.S. in the relevant time period exceed $110 million (as adjusted), the acquisition is not exempt under this section.
3. “A,” a foreign person, intends to acquire 100 percent of the voting securities of two wholly owned subsidiaries of “B” for a total of in excess of $50 million (as adjusted). BSUB1 is a foreign issuer with less than $50 million (as adjusted) in sales into the U.S. in its most recent fiscal year and with assets of less than $50 million (as adjusted) located in the U.S. Less than $50 million (as adjusted) of the acquisition price has been allocated to BSUB1. BSUB2 is a U.S. issuer with more than $50 million (as adjusted) in U.S. sales and more than $50 million (as adjusted) in assets located in the U.S. Less than $50 million
(as adjusted) of the acquisition price is allocated to BSUB2. Since BSUB1 does not exceed the $50 million (as adjusted) limitation for U.S. sales or assets in § 802.51(b), its voting securities are not held as a result of the acquisition (see § 801.15(b) of this chapter). Since the acquisition price for BSUB2 alone would not result in “A” holding in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of voting securities of the acquired person, the transaction is non-reportable in its entirety. Note that the U.S. sales and assets of BSUB1 are not aggregated with those of BSUB2 for purposes of determining whether the limitations in paragraph (b) of this section are exceeded. If BSUB2 were also a foreign issuer, such aggregation would be required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the transaction in its entirety would be reportable.
[67 FR 11904, Mar. 18, 2002; 67 FR 13716, Mar. 26, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 4996, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 802.52
Acquisitions by or from foreign governmental entities.
An acquisition shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if:
(a) The ultimate parent entity of either the acquiring person or the acquired person is controlled by a foreign state, foreign government, or agency thereof; and
(b) The acquisition is of assets located within that foreign state or of voting securities or non-corporate interests of an entity organized under the laws of that state.

# Example:
The government of foreign country X has decided to sell assets of its wholly owned corporation, B, all of which are located in foreign country X. The buyer is “A,” a U.S. person. Regardless of the aggregate sales in or into the United States attributable to the assets of B, the transaction is exempt under this section. (If such aggregate sales were $50 million (as adjusted) or less, the transaction would also be exempt under § 802.50).
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 67 FR 11904, Mar. 18, 2002; 70 FR 4996, Jan. 31, 2005; 76 FR 42482, July 19, 2011]
§ 802.53
Certain foreign banking transactions.
An acquisition which requires the consent or approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under section 25 or section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 601, 615, shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if copies of all information and documentary material filed with the Board of Governors are contemporaneously filed with the Federal Trade Commission and Assistant Attorney General at least 30 days prior to consummation of the acquisition. In lieu of such information and documentary material or any portion thereof, an index describing such material may be provided in the manner authorized by § 802.6(a).
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34435, July 29, 1983]
§ 802.60
Acquisitions by securities underwriters.
An acquisition of voting securities by a person acting as a securities underwriter, in the ordinary course of business, and in the process of underwriting, shall be exempt from the requirements of the act.
§ 802.63
Certain acquisitions by creditors and insurers.
(a)
Creditors.
An acquisition of collateral or receivables, or an acquisition in foreclosure, or upon default, or in connection with the establishment of a lease financing, or in connection with a bona fide debt work-out shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if made by a creditor in a bona fide credit transaction entered into in the ordinary course of the creditor's business.
(b)
Insurers.
An acquisition pursuant to a condition in a contract of insurance relating to fidelity, surety, or casualty obligations shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if made by an insurer in the ordinary course of business.

# Examples:
1. A bank makes a loan and takes actual or constructive possession of collateral in any form. Since the bank is not the beneficial owner of the collateral, the bank's receipt of it is not an acquisition which is subject to the requirements of the act. However, if upon default the bank becomes the beneficial owner of the collateral, that acquisition is exempt under this section.
2. This section exempts only the acquisition by the creditor or insurer, and not the subsequent disposition of the assets or voting securities. If a creditor or insurer sells voting securities or assets that have come into its possession in a transaction which is exempt under this section, the requirements of the act may apply to that disposition.
§ 802.64
Acquisitions of voting securities by certain institutional investors.
(a)
Institutional investor.
For purposes of this section, the term
institutional investor
means any entity of the following type:
(1) A bank within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(2);
(2) Savings bank;
(3) Savings and loan or building and loan company or association;
(4) Trust company;
(5) Insurance company;
(6) Investment company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
);
(7) Finance company;
(8) Broker-dealer within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4) or (a)(5);
(9) Small Business Investment Company or Minority Enterprise Small Business Investment Company regulated by the U.S. Small Business Administration pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 662;
(10) A stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing trust qualified under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code;
(11) Bank holding company within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 1841;
(12) An entity which is controlled directly or indirectly by an institutional investor and the activities of which are in the ordinary course of business of the institutional investor;
(13) An entity which may supply incidental services to entities which it controls directly or indirectly but which performs no operating functions, and which is otherwise engaged only in holding controlling interests in institutional investors; or
(14) A nonprofit entity within the meaning of sections 501(c) (1) through (4), (6) through (15), (17) through (20), or (d) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(b)
Exemption.
An acquisition of voting securities shall be exempt from the requirements of the act, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if:
(1) Made directly by an institutional investor;
(2) Made in the ordinary course of business;
(3) Made solely for the purpose of investment; and
(4) As a result of the acquisition the acquiring person would hold fifteen percent or less of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer.
(c)
Exception to exemption.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) No acquisition of voting securities of an institutional investor of the same type as any entity included within the acquiring person shall be exempt under this section; and
(2) No acquisition by an institutional investor shall be exempt under this section if any entity included within the acquiring person which is not an institutional investor holds any voting securities of the issuer whose voting securities are to be acquired.

# Examples:
1. Assume that A and its subsidiary, B, are both institutional investors as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, that X is not, and that the conditions set forth in paragraphs (b)(2), (3) and (4) of this section are satisfied. Either A or B may acquire voting securities of X worth in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) as long as the aggregate amount held by person “A” as a result of the acquisition does not exceed 15 percent of X's outstanding voting securities. If the aggregate holdings would exceed 15 percent, “A” may acquire no more than $50 million (as adjusted) worth of voting securities without being subject to the requirements of the act.
2. In example 1, assume that B plans to make the acquisition, but that corporation B's parent, corporation A, is not an institutional investor and is engaged in manufacturing. Subparagraph (c)(2) provides that acquisitions by B can never be exempt under this section if A owns any amount of X's voting securities.
3. In example 1, the exemption does not apply if X is also an institutional investor of the same type as either A or B.
4. Assume that H is a holding company which controls a life insurance company, a casualty insurer and a finance company. The life insurance company controls a data processing company which performs services for the two insurers. Any acquisition by any of these entities could qualify for exemption under this section.
5. In example 4, if H also controls a manufacturing entity, H is not an institutional investor, and only the acquisitions made by the two insurance companies, the finance company and the data processing company can qualify for the exemption under this section.
[43 FR 33544, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8694, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4996, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 802.65
Exempt acquisition of non-corporate interests in financing transactions.
An acquisition of non-corporate interests that confers control of a new or existing unincorporated entity is exempt from the notification requirements of the Act if:
(a) The acquiring person is contributing only cash to the unincorporated entity;
(b) For the purpose of providing financing; and
(c) The terms of the financing agreement are such that the acquiring person will no longer control the entity after it realizes its preferred return.
[70 FR 11514, Mar. 8, 2005]
§ 802.70
Acquisitions subject to order.
An acquisition shall be exempt from the requirements of the act if the voting securities or assets are to be acquired from an entity pursuant to and in accordance with:
(a) An order of the Federal Trade Commission or of any Federal court in an action brought by the Federal Trade Commission or the Department of Justice;
(b) An Agreement Containing Consent Order that has been accepted by the Commission for public comment, pursuant to the Commission's Rules of Practice; or
(c) A proposal for a consent judgment that has been submitted to a Federal court by the Federal Trade Commission or the Department of Justice and that is subject to public comment.
[63 FR 34594, June 25, 1998]
§ 802.71
Acquisitions by gift, intestate succession or devise, or by irrevocable trust.
Acquisitions resulting from a gift, intestate succession, testamentary disposition or transfer by a settlor to an irrevocable trust shall be exempt from the requirements of the act.
§ 802.80
Transitional rule for transactions investigated by the agencies.
§§ 801.2 and 801.50 shall not apply to any transaction that has been the subject of investigation by either the Federal Trade Commission or the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice in which, prior to the effective date of that section, the reviewing agency obtained documentary material and information under compulsory process from all parties that would be required to submit a Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions under Section 801.50 but for this transitional rule.
[70 FR 11514, Mar. 8, 2005]
Pt. 803

# PART 803—TRANSMITTAL RULES
Sec.
803.1
Notification and Report Form.
803.2
Instructions applicable to Notification and Report Form.
803.3
Statement of reasons for noncompliance.
803.4
Foreign persons refusing to file notification.
803.5
Affidavits required.
803.6
Certification.
803.7
Expiration of notification.
803.8
Foreign language documents.
803.9
Filing fee.
803.10
Running of time.
803.11
Termination of waiting period.
803.12
Withdraw and refile notification.
803.20
Requests for additional information or documentary material.
803.21
Additional information shall be supplied within reasonable time.
803.30
Formal and informal interpretations of requirements under the Act and the rules.
803.90
Separability.
Appendix A to Part 803—Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions
Appendix B to Part 803—Instructions to the Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 18a(d).
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89338, Nov. 12, 2024.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89338, Nov. 12, 2024, the authority citation to part 803 was revised, effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 18a(d); 15 U.S.C. 18b.

# Source:
43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 803.1
Notification and Report Form.
(a) The notification required by the act shall be the Notification and Report Form set forth in the appendix to this part, as amended from time to time. All acquiring and acquired persons required to file notification by the
act and these rules shall do so by completing and filing the Notification and Report Form, in accordance with the instructions thereon and these rules. The current version of the Form can be obtained at
http://www.ftc.gov.
(b) Any person filing notification may, in addition to the submissions required by this section, submit any other information or documentary material which such person believes will be helpful to the Federal Trade Commission and Assistant Attorney General in assessing the impact of the acquisition upon competition.
[43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978, as amended at 66 FR 8695, Feb. 1, 2001; 71 FR 35998, June 23, 2006; 81 FR 60259, Sept. 1, 2016]
§ 803.2
Instructions applicable to Notification and Report Form.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89338, Nov. 12, 2024.
(a) The notification required by the act shall be filed by the preacquisition ultimate parent entity, or by any entity included within the person authorized by such preacquisition ultimate parent entity to file notification on its behalf. In the case of a natural person required by the act to file notification, such notification may be filed by his or her legal representative:
Provided however,
That notwithstanding §§ 801.1(c)(2) and 801.2, only one notification shall be filed by or on behalf of a natural person, spouse and minor children with respect to an acquisition as a result of which more than one such natural person will hold voting securities of the same issuer.

# Example:
Jane Doe, her husband and minor child collectively hold more than 50 percent of the shares of family corporation F. Therefore, Jane Doe (or her husband or minor child) is the “ultimate parent entity” of a “person” composed to herself (or her husband or minor child) and F; see paragraphs (a)(3), (b) and (c)(2) of § 801.1. If corporation F is to acquire corporation X, under this paragraph only one notification is to be filed by Jane Doe, her husband and minor child collectively.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Items 5-8 of the Notification and Report Form must be completed—
(i) By acquiring persons, with respect to all entities included within the acquiring person;
(ii) By acquired persons, in the case of an acquisition of assets, only with respect to the assets to be acquired;
(iii) By acquired persons, in the case of an acquisition of voting securities, with respect to only the issuer whose voting securities are being acquired, and all entities controlled by such issuer; and
(iv) By acquired persons, in the case of an acquisition of non-corporate interests, with respect to the unincorporated entity whose non-corporate interests are being acquired, and all entities controlled by such unincorporated entity; and
(v) By persons which are both acquiring and acquired persons, separately in the manner that would be required of acquiring and acquired persons under this paragraph, if different.
(2) For purposes of item 7 of the Notification and Report Form, the acquiring person shall regard the acquired person in the manner described in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section.

# Example:
Person “A” is comprised of entities separately engaged in grocery retailing, auto rental, and coal mining. Person “B” is comprised of entities separately engaged in wholesale magazine distribution, auto rental and book publishing. “A” proposes to purchase 100 percent of the voting securities of “B”s book publishing subsidiary. For purposes of item 5, under clause (b)(1)(i), “A” reports the activities of all its entities; under clause (b)(1)(iii), “B” reports only the operations of its book publishing subsidiary. For purposes of items 7 and 8, under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, “A” must regard “B” as consisting only of its book publishing subsidiary and must disregard the fact that “A” and “B” are both engaged in the auto rental business.
(c) In response to items 5, 7, and 8 of the Notification and Report Form—Information need not be supplied with respect to assets or voting securities to be acquired, the acquisition of which is exempt from the requirements of the act.
(d) The term
dollar revenues,
as used in the Notification and Report Form, means value of shipments for manufacturing operations, and sales, receipts, revenues, or other appropriate dollar value measure for operations other than manufacturing, f.o.b. the plant or
establishment less returns, after discounts and allowances and excluding freight charges and excise taxes. Dollar revenues including delivery may be supplied if delivery is an integral part of the sales price. Dollar revenues include interplant transfers.
(e) For documents required by item 4(b) of the Notification and Report Form, a person filing the notification may, instead of submitting a document, provide a cite to an operative Internet address directly linking to the document, if the linked document is complete and payment is not required to access the document. If an Internet address becomes inoperative during the waiting period, or the document is otherwise rendered inaccessible or incomplete, upon notification by the Commission or Assistant Attorney General, the parties must make the document available to the agencies by either referencing an operative Internet address where the complete document may be accessed or by providing paper copies to the agencies as provided in § 803.10(c)(1) by 5 p.m. on the next regular business day. Failure to make the document available, by the Internet or by providing paper copies, by 5 p.m. on the next regular business day, will result in notice of a deficient filing pursuant to § 803.10(c)(2).
(f) Filings made via DVD must comply with all format requirements set forth at the Premerger Notification Office pages at
http://www.ftc.gov.
The use of any format not specified as acceptable, or any other failure to comply with the applicable format requirements, shall render the entire filing deficient within the meaning of § 803.10(c)(2).
[43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34438, July 29, 1983; 66 FR 8695, Feb. 1, 2001; 66 FR 23565, May 9, 2001; 70 FR 11514, Mar. 8, 2005; 70 FR 73372, Dec. 12, 2005; 71 FR 35998, June 23, 2006; 76 FR 42483, July 19, 2011; 81 FR 60259, Sept. 1, 2016]
§ 803.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89338, Nov. 12, 2024, § 803.2 was amended by:
a. Revising paragraph (a);
b. Removing paragraph (b) and the undesignated example following paragraph (b);
c. Redesignating paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (f) as paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e), respectively; and
d. Revising newly redesignated paragraphs (b), (d), and (e), effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 803.2
Instructions applicable to Notification and Report Form.
(a)(1) The notification required by the act shall be filed by the preacquisition ultimate parent entity, or by any entity included within the person authorized by such preacquisition ultimate parent entity to file notification on its behalf. In the case of a natural person required by the act to file notification, such notification may be filed by his or her legal representative:
Provided however,
That notwithstanding §§ 801.1(c)(2) and 801.2 of this chapter, only one notification shall be filed by or on behalf of a natural person, spouse and minor children with respect to an acquisition as a result of which more than one such natural person will hold voting securities of the same issuer.

# Example 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(1).
Jane Doe, her husband, and minor child collectively hold more than 50 percent of the shares of family corporation F. Therefore, Jane Doe (or her husband or minor child) is the “ultimate parent entity” of a “person” composed to herself (or her husband or minor child) and F; see § 801.1(a)(3), (b), and (c)(2) of of this chapter. If corporation F is to acquire corporation X, under this paragraph only one notification is to be filed by Jane Doe, her husband, and minor child collectively.
(2) Persons that are both acquiring and acquired persons shall submit separate forms, one as the acquiring person and one as the acquired person, following the appropriate instructions for each.
(b) In response to the Revenue and Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form, information need not be supplied with respect to assets or voting securities to be acquired, the acquisition of which is exempt from the requirements of the act.
(d) For annual reports and audit reports required by the Notification and Report Form, a person filing the notification may, instead of submitting a document, provide a cite to an operative internet address directly linking to the document, if the linked document is complete and payment is not required to access the document. If an internet address becomes inoperative during the waiting period, or the document is otherwise rendered inaccessible or incomplete, upon notification by the Commission or Assistant Attorney General, the parties must make the document available to the agencies by either referencing an operative internet address where the complete document may be accessed or by providing electronic copies to the agencies as provided in § 803.10(c)(1) by 5 p.m. Eastern Time on the next regular business
day. Failure to make the document available, by the internet or by providing electronic copies, by 5 p.m. Eastern Time on the next regular business day, will result in notice of a deficient filing pursuant to § 803.10(c)(2).
(e) Filings must comply with all format requirements set forth at the Premerger Notification Office pages at
https://www.ftc.gov
. The use of any format not specified as acceptable, or any other failure to comply with the applicable format requirements, shall render the entire filing deficient within the meaning of § 803.10(c)(2).
§ 803.3
Statement of reasons for noncompliance.
A complete response shall be supplied to each item on the Notification and Report Form and to any request for additional information pursuant to section 7A(e) and § 803.20. Whenever the person filing notification is unable to supply a complete response, that person shall provide, for each item for which less than a complete response has been supplied, a statement of reasons for noncompliance. The statement of reasons for noncompliance shall contain all information upon which a person relies in explanation of its noncompliance and shall include at least the following:
(a) Why the person is unable to supply a complete response;
(b) What information, and what specific documents or categories of documents, would have been required for a complete response;
(c) Who, if anyone, has the required information, and specific documents or categories of documents; and a description of all efforts made to obtain such information and documents, including the names of persons who searched for required information and documents, and where the search was conducted. If no such efforts were made, provide an explanation of the reasons why, and a description of all efforts necessary to obtain required information and documents;
(d) Where noncompliance is based on a claim of privilege, a statement of the claim of privilege and all facts relied on in support thereof, including the identity of each document, its author, the author's title/position, addressee, the addressee's title/position, date, subject matter, all recipients of the original and of any copies, the recipients' titles/positions, the document's present location, and who has control of it.
[48 FR 34439, July 29, 1983, as amended at 81 FR 60259, Sept. 1, 2016]
§ 803.4
Foreign persons refusing to file notification.
(a) In an acquisition to which § 801.30 does not apply, and in which no assets (other than investment assets) located in the United States and no voting securities of a United States issuer will be acquired directly or indirectly, if a foreign acquired person refuses to file notification, then any other person which is a party to the acquisition may file notification on behalf of the foreign person. Such notification shall constitute the notification required of the foreign person by the act and these rules.
(b) Any person filing on behalf of the foreign person pursuant to this section must state in the affidavit required by § 803.5(b) that such foreign person has refused to file notification and must explain all efforts made by the person filing on behalf of the foreign person to obtain compliance with the act and these rules by such foreign person.
(c) Any notification filed on behalf of a foreign person pursuant to this section must contain all information and documentary material reasonably available to the person filing on behalf of the foreign person which such foreign person would be required to provide. Whenever information or documentary material is not reasonably available, the person filing on behalf of the foreign person shall so indicate on the Notification and Report Form, and need not supply the statement of reasons for noncompliance required by § 803.3.
(d) Any foreign person on whose behalf notification has been filed by another person pursuant to this section shall be a “person filing notification” for purposes of the act and these rules. Nothing in this section shall exempt a foreign person from the requirements of the act or these rules with respect to a request for additional information or an extension of the waiting period pursuant to section 7A(e) and these rules.
§ 803.5
Affidavits required.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024.
(a)(1)
Section 801.30 acquisitions.
For acquisitions to which § 801.30 applies, the notification required by the Act from each acquiring person shall contain an affidavit, attached to the front of the notification, or with the DVD submission, attesting that the issuer or unincorporated entity whose voting securities or non-corporate interests are to be acquired has received written notice delivered to an officer (or a person exercising similar functions in the case of an entity without officers) by email, certified or registered mail, wire, or hand delivery, at its principal executive offices, of:
(i) The identity of the acquiring person;
(ii) The fact that the acquiring person intends to acquire voting securities or non-corporate interests of the issuer or unincorporated entity;
(iii) The specific classes of voting securities or non-corporate interests of the issuer or unincorporated entity sought to be acquired; and if known, the number of voting securities or non-corporate interests of each such class that would be held by the acquiring person as a result of the acquisition or, if the number of voting securities is not known in the case of an issuer, the specific notification threshold that the acquiring person intends to meet or exceed; and, if designated by the acquiring person, a higher threshold for additional voting securities it may hold in the year following the expiration of the waiting period;
(iv) The fact that the acquisition may be subject to the act, and that the acquiring person will file notification under the act with the Federal Trade Commission and Assistant Attorney General;
(v) The anticipated date of receipt of such notification under § 803.10(c); and
(vi) The fact that the person within which the issuer or unincorporated entity is included may be required to file notification under the act.

# Example to paragraph (a)(1)(vi):
1. Company A intends to acquire voting securities of Company B. “A” sends, via email, a notice letter to a general email account,
information@CompanyB.com.
“A” has not provided sufficient notice. Alternatively, “A” sends, via email, a notice letter to “B's” President, Jane Doe, at
Jane.Doe@CompanyB.com.
“A” has provided email notice to a specific officer of “B.”
(2) The affidavit required by this paragraph must also state the good faith intention of the person filing notification to make the acquisition, and, in the case of a tender offer, that the intention to make the tender offer has been publicly announced.

# Examples to paragraph (a)(2)
1. This paragraph permits the tender offeror to file notification at any time after the intention to make the tender offer has been publicly announced.
In examples 2-5 assume that one percent of B's shares are valued at $15 million.
2. “A” holds 100,000 shares of the voting securities of Company B. “A” has a good faith intention to acquire an additional 900,000 shares of Company B's voting securities. “A” states in its notice to B, inter alia, that as a result of the acquisition it will hold 1,000,000 shares. If 1,000,000 shares of Company B represent 20 percent of Company B's outstanding voting securities, the statement will be deemed by the enforcement agencies a notification for the $100 million threshold (as adjusted).
3. Company A intends to acquire voting securities of Company B. “A” does not know exactly how many shares it will acquire, but it knows it will definitely acquire in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) worth and may acquire 50 percent of Company B's shares. “A”'s notice to the acquired person would meet the requirements of Sec. 803.5(a)(1)(iii) if it states, inter alia, either: “Company A has a present good faith intention to acquire in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of the outstanding voting securities of Company B, and depending on market conditions, may acquire more of the voting securities of Company B and thus designates the 50 percent threshold,” or “Company A has a present good faith intention to acquire in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) of the outstanding voting securities of Company B, and depending on market conditions may acquire 50 percent or more of the voting securities of Company B.” The Commission would deem either of these statements as intending to give notice for the 50 percent threshold.
4. “A” states, inter alia, that, “depending on market conditions, it may acquire 100 percent of the shares of B.” “A”'s notice does not comply with § 803.5 because it does not state an intent to meet or exceed any notification threshold. “A” 's filing will be considered deficient within the meaning of § 803.10(c)(2).
5. “A” states, inter alia, that it has commenced a tender offer for “up to 55 percent of the outstanding voting securities of Company B.” “A” 's notice does not comply with
§ 803.5 because use of the term “up to” does not state an intent to meet or exceed any notification threshold. The filing will therefore be considered deficient within the meaning of § 803.10 (c)(2).
(3) The affidavit required by this paragraph must have attached to it a copy of the written notice received by the acquired person pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. For DVD filings, the written notice (in a form specified in the instructions) must be included on the DVD.
(b)
Non-section 801.30 acquisitions.
For acquisitions to which § 801.30 does not apply, the notification required by the act shall contain an affidavit, attached to the front of the notification, or with the DVD submission, attesting that a contract, agreement in principle or letter of intent to merge or acquire has been executed, and further attesting to the good faith intention of the person filing notification to complete the transaction.
[43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34439, July 29, 1983; 52 FR 7082, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8695, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 4996, Jan. 31, 2005; 71 FR 35998, June 23, 2006; 76 FR 42483, July 19, 2011; 81 FR 60259, Sept. 1, 2016; 83 FR 32771, July 16, 2018]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024, § 803.5 was amended by redesignating the paragraph (a)(1) heading as the paragraph (a) heading and republishing it and revising paragraphs (a)(1) introductory text, (a)(3), and (b), effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 803.5
Affidavits required.
(a)
Section 801.30 acquisitions.
(1) For acquisitions to which § 801.30 of this chapter applies, the notification required by the act from each acquiring person shall contain an affidavit attesting that the issuer or unincorporated entity whose voting securities or non-corporate interests are to be acquired has received written notice delivered to an officer (or a person exercising similar functions in the case of an entity without officers) by email, certified or registered mail, wire, or hand delivery, at its principal executive offices, of:
(3) The affidavit required by this paragraph must have attached to it a copy of the written notice received by the acquired person pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Non-section 801.30 acquisitions.
For acquisitions to which § 801.30 of this chapter does not apply, the notification required by the act shall contain an affidavit attesting that a contract, agreement in principle, or letter of intent to merge or acquire has been executed, and further attesting to the good faith intention of the person filing notification to complete the transaction. If the executed agreement is not the definitive agreement, the affidavit must attest that a dated document that provides sufficient detail about the scope of the entire transaction that the parties intend to consummate has also been submitted.
§ 803.6
Certification.
(a) The notification required by the act shall be certified:
(1) In the case of a partnership, by any general partner thereof;
(2) In the case of a corporation, by any officer or director thereof;
(3) In the case of a person lacking officers, directors, or partners, by any individual exercising similar functions;
(4) In the case of a natural person, by such natural person or his or her legal representative;
(5) In the case of the estate of a deceased natural person, by any duly authorized legal representative of such estate.
(b) Additional information or documentary material submitted in response to a request pursuant to section 7A(e) and § 803.20 shall be accompanied by a certification in the format appearing at the end of the Notification and Report Form, completed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section by the person or individual to whom it was directed.
(c) In all cases, the certifying individual must possess actual authority to make the certification on behalf of the person filing notification.
[43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34429, July 29, 1983]
§ 803.7
Expiration of notification.
(a)
One year after waiting period expired.
Notification with respect to an acquisition shall expire 1 year following the expiration of the waiting period. If the acquiring person's holdings do not, within such time period, meet or exceed the notification threshold with respect to which the notification was filed, the requirements of the act must thereafter be observed with
respect to any notification threshold not met or exceeded.

# Example:
“A” files notification that in excess of $100 million (as adjusted) of the voting securities of corporation B are to be acquired. One year after the expiration of the waiting period, “A” has acquired less than $100 million (as adjusted) of B's voting securities. Although § 802.21 will permit “A” to purchase any amount of B's voting securities short of $100 million (as adjusted) within 5 years from the expiration of the waiting period, A's holdings may not meet or exceed the $100 million (as adjusted) notification threshold without “A” and “B” again filing notification and observing a waiting period.
(b)
Upon failure to comply with request for additional information.
An acquiring person's notification and, in the case of an acquisition to which § 801.30 does not apply, an acquired person's notification, shall expire eighteen months following the date of receipt of such person's notification if a request for additional information or documentary material remains outstanding to such person (or entities included therein, officers, directors, partners, agents or employees thereof), without a certification as required by § 803.6(b), on such date. If either person's notification expires pursuant to this paragraph, both parties must file a new notification in order to carry out the transaction.

# Example:
A files notification on January 15 of Year 1 to acquire voting securities of B. On February 15 of Year 1, prior to expiration of the waiting period, requests for additional information or documentary material are issued to A and B. Before A supplies the information and documentary material requested, business conditions change, and A and B decide not to go forward with the transaction. A does not withdraw its filing and takes the position that it will comply with the request for additional information and documentary material if and when the proposed transaction is ever revived. A's notification expires July 15 of Year 2, eighteen months following the date of receipt of its notification. If A and B wish to revive their transaction, both parties must file a new notification and observe the waiting period in order to carry out the transaction.
[70 FR 73372, Dec. 12, 2005]
§ 803.8
Foreign language documents.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024.
(a) Whenever at the time of filing a Notification and Report Form there is an English language outline, summary, extract or verbatim translation of any information or of all or portions of any documentary materials in a foreign language required to be submitted by the act or these rules, all such English language versions shall be filed along with the foreign language information or materials.
(b) Documentary materials or information in a foreign language required to be submitted in responses to a request for additional information or documentary material shall be submitted with verbatim English language translations, or all existing English language versions, or both, as specified in such request.
[48 FR 34440, July 29, 1983]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024, § 803.8 was revised, effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 803.8
Foreign language documents.
Documentary materials or information in a foreign language required to be submitted at the time of filing a Notification and Report Form and in response to a request for additional information or documentary material must be submitted with verbatim English language translations. All verbatim translations must be accurate and complete.
§ 803.9
Filing fee.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024.
(a) Each acquiring person shall pay the filing fee required by the act to the Federal Trade Commission, except as provided in
paragraphs (b), (c),
and
(f)
of this section. No additional fee is to be submitted to the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. Examples:
(1) “A” wishes to acquire voting securities issued by B, where the greater of the acquisition price and the market price is in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) but less than $100 million (as adjusted) pursuant to § 801.10 of this chapter. When “A” files notification for the transaction, it must indicate the $50 million (as adjusted) threshold. If the value of the voting securities is less than $161.5 million (as adjusted), “A” must pay a filing fee of $30,000 (as adjusted) because the aggregate total amount of the acquisition is greater than $50 million (as adjusted) but less than $161.5 million (as adjusted). If the aggregate total value of the voting securities is at least $161.5 million (as adjusted), but less than $500 million (as
adjusted), “A” must pay a filing fee of $100,000 (as adjusted).
(2) In April 2024, “A” acquires $75 million of assets from “B.” The parties meet the size of person criteria of section 7A(a)(2)(B) of the act, but the transaction is not reportable because it does not exceed the $50 million (as adjusted) size of transaction threshold of that provision. Two months later “A” acquires additional assets from “B” valued at $175 million. Pursuant to the aggregation requirements of § 801.13(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter, the aggregate total amount of “B's” assets that “A” will hold as a result of the second acquisition is $250 million. Accordingly, when “A” files notification for the second transaction, “A” must pay a filing fee of $100,000 (as adjusted) because the aggregate total amount of the acquisition is less than $500 million (as adjusted), but not less than $161.5 million (as adjusted).
(3) In April 2024, “A” acquires $120 million of voting securities issued by B after submitting its notification and $30,000 (as adjusted) filing fee and indicates the $50 million (as adjusted) threshold. Later in 2024, “A” files to acquire additional voting securities issued by B valued at $120 million because it will exceed the next higher reporting threshold (
see
§ 801.1(h) of this chapter). Assuming the second transaction is reportable, and the value of its initial holdings is unchanged (
see
§§ 801.13(a)(2) and 801.10(c) of this chapter), the provisions of § 801.13(a)(1) of this chapter require that “A” report that the total value of the second transaction is $240 million, which is in excess of $100 million (as adjusted) notification threshold. This is because “A” must aggregate previously acquired securities in calculating the value of B's voting securities that it will hold as a result of the second acquisition. “A” should pay a filing fee of $100,000 (as adjusted) because the total value is greater than $161.5 million (as adjusted) but less than $500 million (as adjusted).
(4) In April 2024, “A” signs a contract with a stated purchase price of $174 million, subject to adjustments, to acquire all of the assets of “B.” If the amount of adjustments can be reasonably estimated, the acquisition price—as adjusted to reflect that estimate—is determined. If the amount of adjustments cannot be reasonably estimated, the acquisition price is undetermined. In either case the board or its delegee must also determine in good faith the fair market value. (§ 801.10(b) of this chapter states that the value of an asset acquisition is to be the fair market value or the acquisition price, if determined and greater than fair market value.) “A” files notification and submits a $30,000 (as adjusted) filing fee. “A's” decision to pay that fee may be justified on either of two bases. First, “A” may have concluded that the acquisition price can be reasonably estimated to be less than $173.3 million, because of anticipated adjustments—
e.g.,
based on due diligence by “A's” accounting firm indicating that one third of the inventory is not saleable. If fair market value is also determined in good faith to be less than $173.3 million, the $30,000 (as adjusted) fee is appropriate. Alternatively, “A” may conclude that because the adjustments cannot reasonably be estimated, the acquisition price is undetermined. If so, “A” would base the valuation on the good faith determination of fair market value. The acquiring party's execution of the Certification also attests to the good faith valuation of the value of the transaction.
(5) In April 2024, “A” contracts to acquire all of the assets of “B” for $550 million. The assets include hotels, office buildings, and rental retail property, all of which are exempted by § 802.2 of this chapter. Section 802.2 directs that these assets—which are valued at $300 million—are exempt from the requirements of the act and that reporting requirements for the transaction should be determined by analyzing the remainder of the acquisition as if it were a separate transaction. Furthermore, § 801.15(a)(2) of this chapter states that those exempt assets are never held as a result of the acquisition. Accordingly, the aggregate amount of the transaction is in excess of $161.5 million (as adjusted), but less than $500 million (as adjusted). “A” will be liable for a filing fee of $100,000 (as adjusted), rather than $250,000 (as adjusted), because the value of the
transaction is not less than $161.5 million (adjusted) but is less than $500 million (as adjusted).
(6) In April 2024, “A” acquires coal reserves from “B” valued at $150 million. No notification or filing fee is required because the acquisition is exempted by § 802.3(b) of this chapter. Three months later, A proposes to acquire additional coal reserves from “B” valued at $500 million. This transaction is subject to the notification requirements of the act because the value of the acquisition exceeds the $200 million limitation on the exemption in § 802.3(b). As a result of § 801.13(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter, the prior $150 million acquisition must be added because the additional $500 million of coal reserves were acquired from the same person within 180 days of the initial acquisition. Because aggregating the two acquisitions exceeds the $200 million exemption limitation, § 801.15(b) of this chapter directs that “A” will also hold the previously exempt $150 million acquisition; thus, the aggregate amount held as a result of the $500 million acquisition is $650 million. Accordingly, “A” must file notification to acquire the coal reserves valued in excess of $500 million (as adjusted) but less than $1 billion (as adjusted) and pay a filing fee of $250,000 (as adjusted).
(7) In April 2024, “A” intends to acquire 20 percent of the voting securities of B, a non-publicly traded issuer. The agreed upon acquisition price is $172.3 million subject to post-closing adjustments of up to plus or minus $2 million. “A” estimates that the adjustments will be minus $1 million. In this example, since “A” is able in good faith to reasonably estimate the adjustments to the agreed-on price, the acquisition price is deemed to be determined and the appropriate filing fee threshold is $50 million (as adjusted). Even if the post-closing adjustments cause the final price actually paid to exceed $172.3 million, “A” would be deemed to hold $171.3 million in B voting securities as a result of this acquisition. Note, that any additional acquisition by “A” of B voting may trigger another filing and require the appropriate fee.
(8) In April 2024, “A” intends to make a cash tender offer for a minimum of 50 percent plus one share of the voting securities of B, a non-publicly traded issuer, but will accept up to 100 percent of the shares if they are tendered. There are 12 million shares of B voting stock outstanding and the tender offer price is $100 per share. In this instance, since there is no cap on the number of shares that can be tendered, the value of the transaction will be the value of 100 percent of B's voting securities, and “A” must pay the $400,000 (as adjusted) fee for the $1 billion (as adjusted) filing fee threshold. Note that if the tender offer had been for a maximum of 50 percent plus one share the value of the transaction would be $600 million, and the appropriate fee would be $250,000 (as adjusted), based on the $500 million (as adjusted) filing fee threshold. This would be true even if the tender offer were to be followed by a merger which would be exempt under section 7A(c)(3) of the act.
(b) For a transaction described by § 801.2(d)(2)(iii), the parties shall pay only one filing fee. In accordance with § 801.2(d)(2)(iii), both parties to a consolidation are acquiring and acquired persons and must submit a Notification and Report Form where the transaction meets the reporting requirements of that act; however, only one filing fee is required in connection with such a transaction, and is payable by either party to the transaction. The filing fee is based on the greater of the two sizes of transaction in the consolidation.
(c) For a reportable transaction in which the acquiring entity has two ultimate parent entities, both ultimate parent entities are acquiring persons; however, if the responses for both ultimate parent entities would be the same for item 5 of the Notification and Report Form, only one filing fee is required in connection with the transaction.
(d)
Manner of payment.
Fees may be paid by United States postal money order, bank money order, bank cashier's check, certified check or by electronic wire transfer (EWT). The fee must be paid in U.S. currency.
(1) Fees paid by money order or check shall be made payable to the “Federal Trade Commission,” omitting the name or title of any official of the
Commission, and shall be submitted to the Premerger Notification Office of the Federal Trade Commission along with the Notification and Report Form.
(2) Fees paid by EWT shall be deposited to the Treasury's account at the New York Federal Reserve Bank. Specific instructions for making EWT payments are contained in the Instructions to the Notification and Report Form.
(e)
Refunds.
Except as provided in this paragraph, no filing fee received by the Commission will be returned to the payer and no part of the filing fee shall be refunded. The filing fee shall be refunded only if the Commission's staff determines, based on the information and representations contained in the filing person's notification, that premerger notification was not required by the act. Once the Commission's staff has determined that the notification was required, the filing fee shall not be refunded even if it appears at the time of consummation that the transaction does not meet the reporting requirements established in the act.
(f) For a transaction described by paragraph (c) of § 803.12, the parties shall pay no additional filing fee.
[66 FR 8695, Feb. 1, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 2431, Jan. 17, 2003; 70 FR 4997, Jan. 31, 2005; 78 FR 41296, July 10, 2013; 88 FR 5750, Jan. 30, 2023; 89 FR 7611, Feb. 5, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024, § 803.9 was amended by revising paragraph (c), effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 803.9
Filing fee.
(c) For a reportable transaction in which the acquiring entity has two ultimate parent entities, both ultimate parent entities are acquiring persons; however, if the responses for both ultimate parent entities would be the same for the NAICS Codes section of the Notification and Report Form, only one filing fee is required in connection with the transaction.
§ 803.10
Running of time.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024.
(a)
Beginning of waiting period.
The waiting period required by the act shall begin on the date of receipt of the notification required by the act, in the manner provided by these rules (or, if such notification is not completed, the notification to the extent completed and a statement of the reasons for such noncompliance in accordance with § 803.3) from:
(1) In the case of acquisitions to which § 801.30 applies, the acquiring person;
(2) In the case of the formation of a corporation covered by Sec. 801.40 or an unincorporated entity covered by Sec. 801.50, all persons contributing to the formation of the joint venture or other corporation that are required by the act and these rules to file notification;
(3) In the case of all other acquisitions, all persons required by the act and these rules to file notification.
(b)
Expiration of waiting period.
(1) Subject to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, for purposes of Section 7A(b)(1)(B), the waiting period shall expire at 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on the 30th (or in the case of a cash tender offer or of an acquisition covered by 11 U.S.C. 363(b), the 15th) calendar day (or if § 802.23 applies, such other day as that section may provide) following the beginning of the waiting period as determined under paragraph (a) of this section, unless extended pursuant to Section 7A(e) and § 803.20, or Section 7A(g)(2), or unless terminated pursuant to Section 7A(b)(2) and § 803.11.
(2) Unless further extended pursuant to Section 7A(g)(2), or terminated pursuant to Section 7A(b)(2) and § 803.11, any waiting period which has been extended pursuant to Section 7A(e)(2) and § 803.20 shall, subject to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, expire at 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time—
(i) On the 30th (or, in the case of a cash tender offer or of an acquisition covered by 11 U.S.C. 363(b), the 10th) day following the date of receipt of all additional information or documentary material requested from all persons to whom such requests have been directed (or, if a request is not fully complied
with, the information and documentary material submitted and a statement of the reasons for such noncompliance in accordance with § 803.3), by the Federal Trade Commission or Assistant Attorney General, whichever requested additional information or documentary material, at the office designated in paragraph (c) of this section, or
(ii) As provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, whichever is later.
(3) If any waiting period would expire on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal public holiday (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 6103(a)) the waiting period shall be extended to 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time of the next regular business day.
(c)(1)
Date of receipt and means of delivery.
For purposes of this section, these procedures shall apply.
(i) For paper copy filings and DVD filings, the date of receipt shall be the date on which delivery is effected to the designated offices (Premerger Notification Office, Federal Trade Commission, Room 5301, 400 7th Street SW., Washington, DC 20024, and Director of Civil Enforcement, Office of Operations, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice, 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Room #3335, Washington, DC 20530) during normal business hours. Delivery should be effected directly to the designated offices, either by hand or by certified or registered mail (including FedEx and UPS). In the event one or both of the delivery sites are unavailable, the FTC and DOJ may designate alternate sites for delivery of the filing. Notification of the alternate delivery sites will normally be made through a press release and, if possible, on the
http://www.ftc.gov
Web site.
(ii) Delivery effected after 5 p.m. eastern time on a business day, or at any time on any day other than a business day, shall be deemed effected on the next following business day. If delivery of all required filings to all offices required to receive such filings is not effected on the same date, the date of receipt shall be the latest of the dates on which delivery is effected.

# Example:
In an acquisition other than a tender offer, assume that requests for additional information are issued to both the acquiring and acquired persons on the 26th day of the waiting period. One person submits the additional information on the 35th day, while the other responds on the 44th day. Under this section, the waiting period expires thirty days following the last receipt of additional information, that is, it expires on the 74th day (unless that day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal public holiday).
(2)
Deficient filings.
If notification or a response to a request for additional information or documentary material received by the Commission or Assistant Attorney General does not comply with these rules, the Commission or the Assistant Attorney General shall promptly notify the person filing such notification or response of the deficiencies in such filing, and the date of receipt shall be the date on which a filing which complies with these rules is received.
[43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978; 43 FR 36054, Aug. 15, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 7083, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8696, Feb. 1, 2001; 70 FR 11514, Mar. 8, 2005; 71 FR 35998, June 23, 2006; 79 FR 25663, May 6, 2014; 81 FR 60260, Sept. 1, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024, § 803.10 was amended by revising paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) and redesignating the example following paragraph (c)(1)(ii) as Example 1 to paragraph (c)(1), effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 803.10
Running of time.
(c) * * *
(1) * * *
(i) The date of receipt shall be the date of electronic submission if such date is not a Saturday, Sunday, a legal public holiday (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 6103(a)), or a legal public holiday's observed date, and the submission is completed by 5 p.m. Eastern Time. In the event electronic submission is unavailable, the FTC and DOJ may designate procedures for the submission of the filing. Notification of the alternate delivery procedures will normally be made through a press release and, if possible, on the
https://www.ftc.gov
website.
(ii) Delivery effected after 5 p.m. Eastern Time on a business day, or at any time on any day other than a business day, shall be deemed effected on the next following business day. If submission of all required filings is not effected on the same date, the date of receipt shall be the latest of the dates on which submission is effected.
§ 803.11
Termination of waiting period.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no waiting period shall be terminated pursuant to section 7A(b)(2) unless—
(1) All notifications required to be filed with respect to the acquisition by the act and these rules (or, if such notification is not completed, the notification to the extent completed and a statement of the reasons for such noncompliance in accordance with § 803.3) have been received,
(2) It has been determined that no additional information or documentary material pursuant to section 7A(e) and § 803.20 will be requested, or, if such additional information or documentary material has been requested, it (or, if a request is not fully complied with, the information and documentary material submitted and a statement of the reasons for such noncompliance in accordance with § 803.3) has been received, and
(3) The Federal Trade Commission and the Assistant Attorney General have concluded that neither intends to take any further action within the waiting period.
(b) Any request for additional information or documentary material pursuant to section 7A(e) and § 803.20 shall constitute a denial of all pending requests for termination of the waiting period.
(c) The Federal Trade Commission and the Assistant Attorney General may, in their discretion, terminate a waiting period upon the written request of any person filing notification or, notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, sua sponte. A request for termination of the waiting period shall be sent to the offices designated in § 803.10(c). Termination shall be effective upon notice to any requesting person by either email or telephone, and such notice shall be given as soon as possible. Such notice shall be made to each person which has filed notification, and notice of termination shall be published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with section 7A(b)(2) of the Clayton Act (the “act”). The Federal Trade Commission and the Assistant Attorney General also may use other means to make the termination public, prior to publication in the
Federal Register
in a manner that will make the information equally accessible to all members of the public.
[43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978, as amended at 54 FR 21427, May 18, 1989; 83 FR 32771, July 16, 2018]
§ 803.12
Withdraw and refile notification.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024.
(a)
Voluntary.
An acquiring person, and in the case of an acquisition to which § 801.30 does not apply, an acquired person, may withdraw its notification by notifying the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division in writing by email or mail of such withdrawal.
(b)
Upon public announcement of termination.
An acquiring person's notification or, in the case of an acquisition to which § 801.30 of this chapter does not apply, an acquiring or an acquired person's notification, will be deemed to have been withdrawn if any filing that publicly announces the expiration, termination or withdrawal of a tender offer or the termination of an agreement or letter of intent is made by the acquiring person or the acquired person with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
) and rules promulgated under that act. The acquiring person or acquired person must notify the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division in writing by email or mail that such filing has been made with the SEC and the withdrawal shall be deemed effective on the date of the SEC filing. Withdrawal of the HSR notification(s) shall occur even if statements are made in the SEC filing indicating a desire to recommence the tender offer or enter into a new or amended agreement or letter of intent. This paragraph is inapplicable if the initial 15-day or 30-day waiting period has expired without issuance of a request for additional information or documentary material and without an agreement in place with the Agencies to delay closing of the transaction (“a timing agreement”); or early termination of that waiting period has been granted, without a timing agreement in place; or if a request for additional information or documentary material has been issued and the Agencies have either granted early termination or allowed
the extended waiting period to expire following certification of compliance without a timing agreement in place.
(c)
Resubmission without a new filing fee.
(1) An acquiring person whose notification has been voluntarily withdrawn pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or an acquiring person whose notification is deemed to have been automatically withdrawn under paragraph (b) of this section, may resubmit its notification, thereby initiating a new waiting period for the same transaction without an additional filing fee pursuant to § 803.9(f). This procedure may be used only one time, and only under the following circumstances:
(i) The notification is withdrawn prior to the expiration or early termination of the waiting period and prior to the issuance of a request for additional information pursuant to § 803.20 and section 7A(e) of the act;
(ii) The proposed acquisition does not change in any material way;
(iii) The resubmitted notification is recertified, and the submission, as it relates to Items 4(a), 4(b), 4(c), and 4(d) of the Notification and Report Form, is updated to the date of the resubmission;
(iv) A new executed affidavit is provided with the resubmitted HSR filing; and
(v) The resubmitted notification is refiled prior to the close of the second business day after withdrawal.
(2) If the acquired person, in the case of an acquisition to which § 801.30 of this chapter does not apply, withdraws its notification under paragraph (a) of this section or if its notification is automatically withdrawn under paragraph (b) of this section, no resubmission is available under this paragraph.

# Examples:
1. A commences a tender offer to acquire 100% of B's voting securities and files a Schedule TO with the SEC and a premerger notification filing with the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division (“the Agencies”). Subsequently, A decides to withdraw the tender offer and files an amended Schedule TO announcing the withdrawal. A states in its amended filing, designated as a Schedule TO-T/A on EDGAR, the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system, which announces the tender offer withdrawal that it reserves the right to recommence the tender offer, should circumstances change. A's premerger notification filing is deemed to have been withdrawn on the date of the filing of the Schedule TO-T/A with the SEC.
2. A commences a tender offer for at least 75% of B's voting securities and files a Schedule TO with the SEC stating that the tender offer will expire after 30 days. A also files a premerger notification filing with the Agencies and a request for additional information or documentary material (“Second Request”) is issued. At the end of the 30 day effective period of the tender offer sufficient shares have not been tendered and the tender offer expires. A files a closing Schedule TO-T/A with the SEC announcing the expiration of the tender offer. A's premerger notification filing is deemed to have been withdrawn on the date of the filing of the Schedule TO-T/A with the SEC.
3. A commences a tender offer for 100% of B's voting securities and files a Schedule TO with the SEC stating that shareholders tendering their shares will receive $2.00 per share. During the effective period of the tender offer, A increases the amount it will pay per share to $2.25 and files a Schedule TO-T/A with the SEC announcing the increased share price. A's premerger notification filing is not deemed to have been withdrawn on the date of the filing of the Schedule TO-T/A with the SEC because it is not notifying the SEC that the tender offer has expired or is being withdrawn.
4. A commences a tender offer for 100% of B's voting securities and files a Schedule TO with the SEC. During the effective period of the tender offer, A and B enter into a merger agreement and A files a Schedule TO-T/A with the SEC announcing the withdrawal of the tender offer. A's premerger notification filing is deemed to have been withdrawn on the date of the filing of the Schedule TO-T/A with the SEC. A can, however, refile within two business days on the merger agreement, commencing a new waiting period, without paying an additional filing fee, if it meets the requirements of § 803.12(c).
5. A and B enter into a merger agreement conditioned on successful completion of due diligence. A and B file premerger notification filings with the Agencies and also Form 8-Ks with the SEC announcing they have entered into an agreement to merge. Subsequent findings in the course of due diligence cause A and B to terminate the merger agreement and A files an additional Form 8-K announcing the termination of an agreement. A states that it may seek to enter into a new or amended merger agreement with B. A's premerger notification filing is deemed to have been withdrawn on the date of the filing of the Form 8-K announcing the termination of the merger agreement. A can, however, refile within two business days on a new merger agreement, commencing a new waiting period, without paying an additional
filing fee, if it meets the requirements of § 803.12(c).
6. A and B enter into a merger agreement and file premerger notification filings with the Agencies and Form 8-Ks with the SEC. Second requests are issued. A and B subsequently certify compliance with the second request, starting the extended waiting period. Prior to the expiration of the extended waiting period, the parties enter into an agreement with the agency conducting the investigation to delay closing of the transaction, allowing the consummation of the acquisition only after 30-days' notice (a “timing agreement”), and the extended waiting period expires. During the pendency of the timing agreement, A and B terminate the merger agreement and A files a Form 8-K with the SEC announcing the termination of an agreement. A's premerger notification filing is deemed withdrawn on the date of the SEC filing as a result of that filing, even though the extended waiting period has expired and the parties are still within the one year period following that expiration under § 803.7(a). Note that had the extended waiting period expired and no timing agreement had been entered into, a filing with the SEC announcing the termination of the agreement would not result in the withdrawal of A's premerger notification filing.
7. A and B enter into a merger agreement and file premerger notification filings with the Agencies and Form 8-Ks with the SEC. The agencies complete their review and early termination of the initial 30-day waiting period is granted. Prior to the expiration of the one year period following the grant of early termination, A and B terminate the merger agreement and A files a Form 8-K with the SEC announcing the termination of an agreement. A's premerger notification filing is not deemed withdrawn as a result of the SEC filing because the initial 30-day premerger notification waiting period had been granted early termination. Therefore, the parties still have the full one year period prior to the expiration of the notification under § 803.7(a) to consummate the transaction should it be recommenced.
[78 FR 41296, July 10, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 32771, July 16, 2018]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024, § 803.12 was amended by revising paragraph (c)(1)(iii), effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 803.12
Withdraw and refile notification.
(c) * * *
(1) * * *
(iii) The resubmitted notification is recertified, and the submission, as it relates to Transaction-Specific Agreements, Transaction-Related Documents, and Subsidies from Foreign Entities of Concern sections of the Notification and Report Form, is updated to the date of the resubmission;
§ 803.20
Requests for additional information or documentary material.
(a)(1)
Persons and individuals subject to request.
Pursuant to section 7A(e)(1), the submission of additional information or documentary material relevant to the acquisition may be required from one or more persons required to file notification, and, with respect to each such person, from one or more entities included therein, or from one or more officers, directors, partners, agents, or employees thereof, if so required by the same request.

# Example:
A request for additional information may require a corporation and, in addition, a named officer or employee to provide certain information or documents, if both the corporation and the officer or employee are named in the same request. See subparagraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) All the information and documentary material required to be submitted pursuant to a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be supplied to the Commission or to the Assistant Attorney General, whichever made such request, at such location as may be designated in the request, or, if no such location is designated, at the office designated in § 803.10(c). If such request is not fully complied with, a statement of reasons for noncompliance pursuant to § 803.3 shall be provided for each item or portion of such request which is not fully complied with.
(b)(1)
Who may require submission.
A request for additional information or documentary material with respect to an acquisition may be issued by the Federal Trade Commission or its designee, or by the Assistant Attorney General or his or her designee, but not by both to the same person, any entities included therein, or any officers, directors, partners, agents, or employees of that person.
(2)
When request effective.
A request for additional information or documentary material shall be effective—
(i) In the case of a written request, upon receipt of the request by the ultimate parent entity of the person to which the request is directed (or, if another entity included within the person filed notification pursuant to § 803.2(a), then by such entity), within the original 30-day (or, in the case of a cash tender offer or of an acquisition covered by 11 U.S.C. 363(b), 15-day) waiting period (or, if § 802.23 applies, such other period as that section provides); or
(ii) In the case of a written request, upon notice of the issuance of such request to the person to which it is directed within the original 30-day (or, in the case of a cash tender offer or of an acquisition covered by 11 U.S.C. 363(b), 15-day) waiting period (or, if § 802.23 applies, such other period as that section provides), provided that written confirmation of the request is emailed or mailed to the person to which the request is directed within the original 30-day (or, in the case of a cash tender offer or of an acquisition covered by 11 U.S.C. 363(b), 15-day) waiting period (or, if § 802.23 applies, such other period as that section provides). Notice to the person to which the request is directed may be given by email, telephone or in person. The person filing notification shall keep a designated individual reasonably available during normal business hours throughout the waiting period at the email or telephone number supplied in the Notification and Report Form. Notice of a request for additional information or documentary material need be given by email or telephone only to that individual or to the individual designated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section. The written confirmation of the request shall be emailed or mailed to the ultimate parent entity of the person filing notification, or if another entity within the person filed notification pursuant to § 803.2(a), then to such entity.
(iii) When the individual designated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section is not located in the United States, the person filing notification shall designate an additional individual located within the United States to be reasonably available during normal business hours throughout the waiting period through a telephone number supplied on the certification page of the Notification and Report Form. This individual shall be designated for the limited purpose of receiving notification of the issuance of requests for additional information or documentary material in accordance with the procedure described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Requests to natural persons.
A request addressed to an individual, requiring that he or she submit additional information or documentary material, shall be transmitted to the person filing notification of which the individual is an ultimate parent entity, officer, director, partner, agent or employee, and shall be effective as to that individual when effective as to the person filing notification pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A written copy of the request shall also be delivered to the individual by email, by hand, or by registered or certified mail at his or her home or business address.

# Example:
A designee of the Federal Trade Commission sends, by email, a written request for additional information to the CEO of corporation W, the ultimate parent entity within a person that filed notification. The request is effective under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. If the email also addressed a request for documentary material to the Secretary of corporation W, a named individual, under this paragraph (b)(3), the request would likewise be effective as to the individual upon receipt of the email by corporation W. In the latter case, the Federal Trade Commission also would send a copy of the request to the Secretary of the corporation at his or her home or business address, or email.
(c)
Waiting period extended.
(1) During the time period when a request for additional information or documentary material remains outstanding to any person other than either:
(i) In the case of a tender offer, the person whose voting securities are sought to be acquired by the tender offeror (or any officer, director, partner, agent or employee thereof), or
(ii) In the case of an acquisition covered by 11 U.S.C. 363(b), the acquired person, the waiting period shall remain in effect, even though the waiting period would have expired (see § 803.10(b)) if no such request had been made.
(2) A request for additional information or documentary material to any person other than either:
(i) In the case of a tender offer, the person whose voting securities are being acquired pursuant to the tender offer (or any officer, director, partner, agent or employee thereof), or
(ii) In the case of an acquisition covered by 11 U.S.C. 363(b), the acquired person, shall in every instance extend the waiting period for a period of 30 (or, in the case of a cash tender offer or of an acquisition covered by 11 U.S.C. 363(b), 10) calendar days from the date of receipt (as determined under § 803.10) of the additional information or documentary material requested.

# Example:
Acquiring person “A” makes a non-cash tender offer for voting securities of corporation “X”, and files notification. Under § 801.30, the waiting period begins upon filing by “A,” and “X” must file within 15 days thereafter (10 days if it were a cash tender offer). Assume that before the end of the waiting period, the Assistant Attorney General issues a request for additional information to “A” and “X.” Since the transaction is a non-cash tender offer, the waiting period is extended for 30 days (10 days if it were a cash tender offer) beyond the date on which “A” responds. Note that under § 803.21, even though the waiting period is not affected by the second request to “X” or by “X” supplying the requested information, “X” is obliged to respond to the request within a reasonable time. Nevertheless, the Federal Trade Commission and Assistant Attorney General could, notwithstanding the pendency of the request for additional information, terminate the waiting period sua sponte pursuant to § 803.11(c).
(d)(1)
Identification of requests.
Every request for additional information or documentary material shall be clearly identified as such, whether communicated in person, by telephone or in writing, and shall clearly identify the person, entity or entities, or individual(s) to which it is addressed.
(2)
Request for clarification.
No request for clarification or amplification of a response to any item on the Notification and Report Form, whether communicated in person, by telephone or in writing, shall be considered a request for additional information or documentary material within the meaning of section 7A(e) and this section.
[43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34441, July 29, 1983; 66 FR 8697, Feb. 1, 2001; 68 FR 2431, Jan. 17, 2003; 83 FR 32772, July 16, 2018]
§ 803.21
Additional information shall be supplied within reasonable time.
All additional information or documentary material requested pursuant to section 7A(e) and § 803.20 (or, if such request is not fully complied with, the information or documentary material submitted and a statement of the reasons for such noncompliance in accordance with § 803.3) shall be supplied within a reasonable time.
§ 803.30
Formal and informal interpretations of requirements under the Act and the rules.
(a) The Commission staff may consider requests for formal or informal interpretations as to the obligations under the act and these rules of any party to an acquisition. A request for a formal interpretation shall be made in writing to the offices designated in § 803.10(c), and shall state: (1) all facts which the applicant believes to be material, (2) the reasons why the requirements of the act are or may be applicable and (3) the question(s) that the applicant wishes resolved. The Commission staff may, in its discretion, render a formal or informal response to any request, however made, or may decline to render such advice.
(b) In the sole discretion of the staff, any request for interpretation may be referred to the Commission.
(c) Formal interpretations by the Commission staff or by the Commission shall be rendered with the concurrence of the Assistant Attorney General or his or her designee.
(d) Any formal interpretation shall be without prejudice to the right of either the Commission or the Assistant Attorney General to rescind any such interpretation rendered pursuant to this section. In the event of such rescission, the party which requested the interpretation shall be so notified in writing.
(e) The Commission shall publish a summary of formal interpretations by
the Commission, and any rescissions thereof, in the
Federal Register.
§ 803.90
Separability.
If any provision of the rules in this subchapter (H) (including the Notification and Report Form) or the application of any such provision to any person or circumstances is held invalid, neither the other provisions of the rules nor the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall be affected thereby.
Pt. 803, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 803—Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024.
ER30JA23.002
ER30JA23.003
ER30JA23.004
ER30JA23.005
ER30JA23.006
ER30JA23.007
ER30JA23.008
ER30JA23.009
ER30JA23.010
ER30JA23.011
ER30JA23.012
ER30JA23.013
[88 FR 5751, Jan. 30, 2023]
Pt. 803, App. A, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024, appendix A to part 803 was revised, effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Appendix A to Part 803—Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions
ER12NO24.053
ER12NO24.054
ER12NO24.055
ER12NO24.056
ER12NO24.057
ER12NO24.058
ER12NO24.059
ER12NO24.060
ER12NO24.061
ER12NO24.062
ER12NO24.063
ER12NO24.064
ER12NO24.065
ER12NO24.066
ER12NO24.067
ER12NO24.068
ER12NO24.069
ER12NO24.070
ER12NO24.071
ER12NO24.072
ER12NO24.073
ER12NO24.074
ER12NO24.075
Pt. 803, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 803—Instructions to the Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024.
ER30JA23.014
ER30JA23.015
ER30JA23.016
ER30JA23.017
ER30JA23.018
ER30JA23.019
ER30JA23.020
ER30JA23.021
ER30JA23.022
ER30JA23.023
ER30JA23.024
[88 FR 5764, Jan. 30, 2023]
Pt. 803, App. B, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 89339, Nov. 12, 2024, appendix B to part 803 was revised, effective Feb. 10, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Appendix B to Part 803—Instructions to the Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions
ER12NO24.076
ER12NO24.077
ER12NO24.078
ER12NO24.079
ER12NO24.080
ER12NO24.081
ER12NO24.082
ER12NO24.083
ER12NO24.084
ER12NO24.085
ER12NO24.086
ER12NO24.087
ER12NO24.088
ER12NO24.089
ER12NO24.090
ER12NO24.091
ER12NO24.092
ER12NO24.093
ER12NO24.094
ER12NO24.095
ER12NO24.096
ER12NO24.097
ER12NO24.098
ER12NO24.099
ER12NO24.100
ER12NO24.101
ER12NO24.102
ER12NO24.103
ER12NO24.104
ER12NO24.105
ER12NO24.106
ER12NO24.107

# SUBCHAPTER I—FAIR DEBT COLLECTION PRACTICES ACT
Pt. 901

# PART 901—PROCEDURES FOR STATE APPLICATION FOR EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF THE ACT

# Authority:
Pub. L. 95-109, 91 Stat. 874, 15 U.S.C. 1692o; 5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
77 FR 22204, Apr. 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 901.1
Cross-reference.
The rules formerly at 16 CFR part 901 have been republished by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 12 CFR part 1006, “Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (Regulation F).”
PARTS 902-909 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER J—RULES CONCERNING UNFAIR METHODS OF COMPETITION
Pt. 910

# PART 910—NON-COMPETE CLAUSES
Sec.
910.1
Definitions.
910.2
Unfair methods of competition.
910.3
Exceptions.
910.4
Relation to State laws and preservation of State authority and private rights of action.
910.5
Severability.
910.6
Effective date.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 45 and 46(g).

# Source:
89 FR 38502, May 7, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 910.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Business entity
means a partnership, corporation, association, limited liability company, or other legal entity, or a division or subsidiary thereof.
Employment
means work for a person.
Non-compete clause
means:
(1) A term or condition of employment that prohibits a worker from, penalizes a worker for, or functions to prevent a worker from:
(i) Seeking or accepting work in the United States with a different person where such work would begin after the conclusion of the employment that includes the term or condition; or
(ii) Operating a business in the United States after the conclusion of the employment that includes the term or condition.
(2) For the purposes of this part, term or condition of employment includes, but is not limited to, a contractual term or workplace policy, whether written or oral.
Officer
means a president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or principal financial officer, comptroller or principal accounting officer, and any natural person routinely performing corresponding functions with respect to any business entity whether incorporated or unincorporated.
Person
means any natural person, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity within the Commission's jurisdiction, including any person acting under color or authority of State law.
Policy-making authority
means final authority to make policy decisions that control significant aspects of a business entity or common enterprise and does not include authority limited to advising or exerting influence over such policy decisions or having final authority to make policy decisions for only a subsidiary of or affiliate of a common enterprise.
Policy-making position
means a business entity's president, chief executive officer or the equivalent, any other officer of a business entity who has policy-making authority, or any other natural person who has policy-making authority for the business entity similar to an officer with policy-making authority. An officer of a subsidiary or affiliate of a business entity that is part of a common enterprise who has policy-making authority for the common enterprise may be deemed to have a policy-making position for purposes of this paragraph. A natural person who does not have policy-making authority over a common enterprise may not be deemed to have a policy-making position even if the person has policy-making authority over a subsidiary or affiliate of a business entity that is part of the common enterprise.
Preceding year
means a person's choice among the following time periods: the most recent 52-week year, the most recent calendar year, the most recent fiscal year, or the most recent anniversary of hire year.
Senior executive
means a worker who:
(1) Was in a policy-making position; and
(2) Received from a person for the employment:
(i) Total annual compensation of at least $151,164 in the preceding year; or
(ii) Total compensation of at least $151,164 when annualized if the worker was employed during only part of the preceding year; or
(iii) Total compensation of at least $151,164 when annualized in the preceding year prior to the worker's departure if the worker departed from
employment prior to the preceding year and the worker is subject to a non-compete clause.
Total annual compensation
is based on the worker's earnings over the preceding year. Total annual compensation may include salary, commissions, nondiscretionary bonuses and other nondiscretionary compensation earned during that 52-week period. Total annual compensation does not include board, lodging and other facilities as defined in 29 CFR 541.606, and does not include payments for medical insurance, payments for life insurance, contributions to retirement plans and the cost of other similar fringe benefits.
Worker
means a natural person who works or who previously worked, whether paid or unpaid, without regard to the worker's title or the worker's status under any other State or Federal laws, including, but not limited to, whether the worker is an employee, independent contractor, extern, intern, volunteer, apprentice, or a sole proprietor who provides a service to a person. The term worker includes a natural person who works for a franchisee or franchisor, but does not include a franchisee in the context of a franchisee-franchisor relationship.
§ 910.2
Unfair methods of competition.
(a)
Unfair methods of competition
—(1)
Workers other than senior executives.
With respect to a worker other than a senior executive, it is an unfair method of competition for a person:
(i) To enter into or attempt to enter into a non-compete clause;
(ii) To enforce or attempt to enforce a non-compete clause; or
(iii) To represent that the worker is subject to a non-compete clause.
(2)
Senior executives.
With respect to a senior executive, it is an unfair method of competition for a person:
(i) To enter into or attempt to enter into a non-compete clause;
(ii) To enforce or attempt to enforce a non-compete clause entered into after the effective date; or
(iii) To represent that the senior executive is subject to a non-compete clause, where the non-compete clause was entered into after the effective date.
(b)
Notice requirement for existing non-compete clauses
—(1)
Notice required.
For each existing non-compete clause that it is an unfair method of competition to enforce or attempt to enforce under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the person who entered into the non-compete clause with the worker must provide clear and conspicuous notice to the worker by the effective date that the worker's non-compete clause will not be, and cannot legally be, enforced against the worker.
(2)
Form of notice.
The notice to the worker required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section must:
(i) Identify the person who entered into the non-compete clause with the worker;
(ii) Be on paper delivered by hand to the worker, or by mail at the worker's last known personal street address, or by email at an email address belonging to the worker, including the worker's current work email address or last known personal email address, or by text message at a mobile telephone number belonging to the worker.
(3)
Exception.
If a person that is required to provide notice under paragraph (b)(1) of this section has no record of a street address, email address, or mobile telephone number, such person is exempt from the notice requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to such worker.
(4)
Model language.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the following model language constitutes notice to the worker that the worker's non-compete clause cannot legally be enforced and will not be enforced against the worker.

# Figure 1 to Paragraph (
b

# )(4)—Model Language
ER07MY24.000
(5)
Safe harbor.
A person complies with the requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the person provides notice to a worker pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(6)
Optional notice in additional languages.
In addition to providing the notice required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in English, a person is permitted to provide such notice in a language (or in languages) other than English or to include internet links to translations in additional languages. If providing optional notice under this paragraph (b)(6), a person may use any Commission-provided translation of the model language in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
§ 910.3
Exceptions.
(a)
Bona fide sales of business.
The requirements of this part shall not apply to a non-compete clause that is entered into by a person pursuant to a bona
fide sale of a business entity, of the person's ownership interest in a business entity, or of all or substantially all of a business entity's operating assets.
(b)
Existing causes of action.
The requirements of this part do not apply where a cause of action related to a non-compete clause accrued prior to the effective date.
(c)
Good faith.
It is not an unfair method of competition to enforce or attempt to enforce a non-compete clause or to make representations about a non-compete clause where a person has a good-faith basis to believe that this part is inapplicable.
§ 910.4
Relation to State laws and preservation of State authority and private rights of action.
(a) This part will not be construed to annul, or exempt any person from complying with any State statute, regulation, order, or interpretation applicable to a non-compete clause, including, but not limited to, State antitrust and consumer protection laws and State common law, except that this part supersedes such laws to the extent, and only to the extent, that such laws would otherwise permit or authorize a person to engage in conduct that is an unfair method of competition under § 910.2(a) or conflict with the notice requirement in § 910.2(b).
(b) Except with respect to laws superseded under paragraph (a) of this section, no provision of this part shall be construed as altering, limiting, or affecting the authority of a State attorney general or any other regulatory or enforcement agency or entity or the rights of a person to bring a claim or regulatory action arising under any State statute, regulation, order, or interpretation, including, but not limited to, State antitrust and consumer protection laws and State common law.
§ 910.5
Severability.
If any provision of this part is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, or stayed pending further agency action, the provision shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law and such invalidity shall not affect the application of the provision to other persons or circumstances or the validity or application of other provisions. If any provision or application of this part is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the provision or application shall be severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
§ 910.6
Effective date.
This part is effective September 4, 2024.
PARTS 912-999 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
16 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
16 CFR
85 FR
Page
1.98 Revised
2016
303.7 Introductory text revised; (v) amended
63014
310 Heading revised
62597
310.8 (c) and (d) revised
62597
315 Authority citation revised
50717
315.2 Amended
50717
315.3 (a)(1), (2), and (b)(1) through (3) revised; (a)(3) and (c) added
50717
315.5 (d) through (g) redesignated as (e) through (i); new (d), (g), and (h)(2)(iii) added; new (f) and (i) revised
50717
436.8 (a)(1), (5)(i), and (ii) amended
38791
2021
16 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
0.1 Amended
38545
0.2 Amended
38545
0.3 Revised
38545
0.4 Revised
38545
0.5 Revised
38545
0.7 (a) and (b) amended
38546
0.8 Revised
38546
0.9 Revised
38546
0.10 Amended
38546
0.11 Revised
38546
0.12 Revised
38546
0.13 Amended
38546
0.14 Revised
38546
0.16 Revised
38546
0.17 Revised
38546
0.18 Amended
38547
0.19 Revised
38547
0.20 Revised
38547
1.1—1.6 (Subpart A) Authority citation added
59852
1.6 Revised
59852
1.7—1.20 (Subpart B) Authority citation revised
38547, 59852
1.7 Revised
38547
1.8 Revised
38547
1.9 Amended
38547
1.9 Revised
59852
1.10 Revised
38547
1.11 Revised
38548
1.12 Revised
38548
1.13 Revised
38549
1.14 Revised
38550
1.16 Revised
38550, 59852
1.18 Revised
38550
1.19 Revised
38551
1.20 Revised
38551
1.21—1.26 (Subpart C) Authority citation revised
59852
1.25 Revised
59852
1.31 (Subpart D) Added
59852
1.98 Revised
2541
1.140—1.144 (Subpart S) Added
54823
4.2 (a)(1)(iii) added
59853
305 Amended; eff. 1-1-23
9281
305.2 (l)(23) redesignated as (l)(24); new (l)(23) added; eff. 10-1-22
9282
305.2 (p) revised; eff. 1-1-23
9282
305.3 (j) added; eff. 10-1-22
9282
305.7 (e)(3) added; eff. 10-1-22
9282
305.10 (f) revised; eff. 10-1-22
9282
305.11 (b)(1) revised; eff. 10-1-22
9282
305.13 Heading and (e)(3) revised; eff. 10-1-22
9282
305.18 Heading and (a)(9) revised; eff. 10-1-22
9282
305.20 (g)(11) through (14) revised; eff. 1-1-23
9283
305.27 Heading, (a)(1)(i), (b)(1)(i) introductory text, and (B) revised; eff. 10-1-22
9283
305 Appendix E redesignated as Appendix E1; Appendix E2 added; eff. 10-1-22
9283
305 Appendix K2 revised; eff. 10-1-22
9284
305 Appendix H and Appendix I revised; eff. 1-1-23
57986
305 Appendix L amended; eff. 1-1-23
57987
306.10 (b)(2) revised
59853
306.10 (a) amended
69583
306.12 (a)(2) and (3) amended
59853
309.15 (b)(2) revised
59854
309.17 (a)(1) and (2) amended
59854
310.8 (c) and (d) revised
48301
313 Authority citation revised
70025
313.1 (b) revised; eff. 1-10-22
70025
313.3 (e), (i) through (k), and (q) revised; eff. 1-10-22
70025
313.4 (c)(3) heading added; (c)(3)(i) and (e) revised; eff. 1-10-22
70026
313.5 (a) heading and (e) added; (a)(1) and (b)(2) revised; eff. 1-10-22
70026
313.15 (a)(4) revised; eff. 1-10-22
70026
313.18 Removed; eff. 1-10-22
70027
314.1 (b) revised; eff. 1-10-22
70304
314.2 Revised; eff. 1-10-22
70304
314.3 (a) revised; eff. 1-10-22
70307
314.4 Revised; eff. 1-10-22
70307
314.5 Revised; eff. 1-10-22
70308
314.6 Added; eff. 1-10-22
70308
317 Policy statement
12091
323 Added
37032
323.6 Revised
59854
500.3 (e) revised
59854
640 Revised
51797
641 Authority citation revised
51819
641.1 (a) revised
51819
642 Authority citation revised
50850
642.1 (b) revised
50850
642.2 (b) redesignated as (c); new (b) added
50850
642.3 Introductory text revised
50850
660 Authority citation revised
51821
660.1 Revised
51821
660.2 (d) revised; (f) added
51821
680 Authority citation revised
51610
680.1 (b) revised
51610
680.3 (i) through (l) redesignated as (j) through (m); new (i) added
51610
698.2 Revised
50850
698 Appendix A revised
51805
698 Appendix C added
50850
2022
16 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.98 Revised
1071
1.145—1.149 (Subpart T) Added
60079
305.10 (f) revised; eff. 1-10-23
61467
305.12 (a) and (b) revised; eff. 1-10-23
61467
305.27 (a)(1)(i) revised; eff. 1-10-23
61467
305 Appendix A1 through A9 revised; eff. 1-10-23
61468
305 Appendices B1 through B3 revised; eff. 1-10-23
61471
305 Appendix C1 and Appendix C2 revised; eff. 1-10-23
61472
305 Appendices D1 through D5 revised; eff. 1-10-23
61473
305 Appendix E1 revised; eff. 10-1-23
61474
305 Appendix F1 and Appendix F2 revised; eff. 1-10-23
61474
305 Appendices G1 through G8 revised; eff. 1-10-23
61475
305 Appendix J1 and Appendix J2 revised; eff. 1-10-23
61476
305 Appendix K1 and Appendix K2 revised; eff. 1-10-23
61477
305 Appendix L amended; eff. 10-1-23
61477
310.8 (c) and (d) revised
53373
314.5 Revised
71510
2023
16 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
Chapter I Notification
83498
0 Technical correction
45063
0.8 (d) and (e) revised; (f) added
42874
1 Technical correction
45063
1.13 (b) introductory text amended
42874
1.22 (c) revised
42874
1.26 (b)(5) revised
42874
1.71 Amended
42874
1.73 (b)(1) revised
42874
1.98 Revised
1500
1.150—1.152 (Subpart U) Added
18036
2 Technical correction
45063
2.7 (l) amended
42875
2.10 (a)(5) revised
42875
3 Technical correction
45063
3.1 Amended
42875
3.21 (c)(2) amended
42875
3.24 (a)(2) through (5), (b)(1), and (2) revised
42875
3.38 (c) amended
42876
3.42 (c)(9) and (e) revised; (g)(2) amended
42876
3.46 (e) revised
42876
3.51 Revised
42876
3.52 Heading and (a) through (c) revised
42876
3.53 Revised
42877
3.54 Heading and (a) revised; (b) removed; (c) and (d) redesignated as new (b) and (c)
42877
3.82 (d)(3) revised
42877
3.83 (g) and (h) revised
42877
4 Technical correction
45063
4.11 (e)(1) amended
42878
4.13 (d) revised
42878
255 Revised
48102
305.17 (a)(9)(i) and (ii) amended
1139
305 Correction: Appendix A6 amended; Appendix D1 through D5 revised
1136
305 Correction: Appendix K1 and Appendix L amended
1137
310.8 (c) and (d) amended
57334
314.2 (m) through (r) redesignated as (n) through (s); new (m) added; eff. 5-13-24
77508
314.4 (c) introductory text revised; (j) added; eff. 5-13-24
77508
314.5 Revised; eff. 5-13-24
77509
423 Determination
85495
801 Technical correction
8224
801.1 (m) revised
5750
803 Technical correction
8224
803.9 (a) revised
5750
803 Appendix A revised
5751
803 Appendix B revised
5764
2024
16 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.98 Revised
1447
1.143 (a), (b) heading, (1), (e), and (f) revised
8531
1.150—1.152 (Subpart U) Revised
8532
1.150—1.156 (Subpart U) Heading revised
66550
1.153 Added
66550
1.154 Added
66550
1.155 Added
66550
1.156 Added
66550
305.25 (f)(4) and (5) revised
7268
305.27 (b)(1)(i)(F) revised
7269
305 Appendix L amended
7269
310.2 (q) revised; (aa) through (hh) redesignated as (bb) through (ii); new (aa) added
26783
310.2 (gg) through (ii) redesignated as (hh) through (jj); new (gg) added; eff. 1-9-25
99075
310.3 (a) introductory text, (b), (c) introductory text, (d) introductory text, footnote 2, footnote 5, and section amended
26785
310.3 Footnotes 659 through 663 redesignated as Footnotes 1 through 5
26784
310.4 (a) introductory text, (2)(ii), (b)(1) introductory text, (2), (c), (d) introductory text, (e) introductory text, Footnote 1, Footnote 2, and section amended
26785
310.4 (b)(2) revised; Footnotes 664 through 666 redesignated as Footnotes 1 through 3
26784
310.5 Revised
26784
310.6 (a) and (b) introductory text amended
26785
310.6 (b)(1), (2), and (3) amended; (b)(7) revised
26785
310.6 (b)(5)(i) and (6)(i) revised; eff. 1-9-25
99075
310.7 (a) revised
26785
310.8 (a), (b), and (e) amended
26785
310.8 (c) and (d) revised
70095
318 Revised
47054
425 Revised; eff. 1-14-25
90537
432.2 Revised
49801
432.3 (e) revised; (g) and (h) added
49801
432.4 Revised
49802
436.8 (a)(1), (5)(i), and (ii) amended
57078
456 Authority citation revised
60774
456.1 (a), (b), (d), (e), and (g) revised
60774
456.2 Revised
60774
456.3 Redesignated as 456.5; new section added
60774
456.4 Redesignated as 456.6
60774
456.4 Added
60775
456.5 Redesignated as 456.7; new section redesignated from 456.3
60774
456.6 Redesignated from 456.4
60774
456.7 Redesignated from 456.5
60774
461 Added
15030
463 Added
693
463 Regulation at 89 FR 693 eff. date confirmed
13267
465 Added
68077
801 Authority citation revised
89337
801.1 (n) revised
7611
801.1 (d)(2)
Examples 1
and
4
through
6
revised; (r) added; eff. 2-10-25
89337
803 Authority citation revised
89338
803.2 (b) and undesignated
Example
following (b) removed; (c) through (f) redesignated as (b) through (e); (a), new (b), new (d), and new (e) revised; eff. 2-10-25
89338
803.5 (a)(1) heading redesignated as (a) heading; (a)(1) introductory text, (3), and (b) revised; eff. 2-10-25
89339
803.8 Revised; eff. 2-10-25
89339
803.9 (a)(1) through (8) revised
7611
803.9 (c) revised; eff. 2-10-25
89339
803.10 (c)(1)(i) and (ii) revised; (c)(1)(ii)
Example
redesignated as (c)(1)
Example 1
; eff. 2-10-25
89339
803.12 (c)(1)(iii) revised; eff. 2-10-25
89339
803 Appendix A and Appendix B revised; eff. 2-10-25
89339
910.1—910.6 (Subchapter J) Added
38502
○
