(i) The CFPB shall charge for search time at the salary rate(s) (basic pay plus sixteen (16) percent) of the employee(s) who conduct the search. However, the CFPB shall charge search fees at the rate of $9.00 per fifteen (15) minutes of search time whenever only administrative/clerical employees conduct a search and at the rate of $23.00 per fifteen (15) minutes of search time whenever only professional/executive employees conduct a search. Search charges shall also include transportation of employees and records necessary to the search at actual cost. Fees may be charged for search time even if the search does not yield any responsive records, or if records are exempt from disclosure.
(ii) The CFPB shall charge the requester for the actual direct costs of conducting an electronic records search, including computer search time, runs, and output. The CFPB shall also charge for time spent by computer operators or programmers (at the rates set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section) who conduct or assist in the conduct of an electronic records search.
(3) The CFPB shall charge a requester for time spent by its employees examining responsive records to determine whether any portions of such record are exempt from disclosure, pursuant to the FOIA exemptions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b). The CFPB shall also charge a requester for time spent by its employees redacting any such exempt information from a record and preparing a record for release to the requester. The CFPB shall charge a requester for time spent reviewing records at the salary rate(s) (
i.e.,
basic pay plus sixteen (16) percent) of the employees who conduct the review. However, the CFPB shall charge review fees at the rate of $9.00 per fifteen (15) minutes of search time whenever only administrative/clerical employees review records and at the rate of $23.00 per fifteen (15) minutes of search time whenever only professional/executive employees review records. Fees shall be charged for review time even if records ultimately are not disclosed.
(4) Fees for all services provided shall be charged whether or not copies are made available to the requester for inspection. However, no fee shall be charged for monitoring a requester's inspection of records.
(5) Other services and materials requested which are not covered by this part nor required by the FOIA are chargeable at the actual cost to the CFPB. This includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Certifying that records are true copies; or
(ii) Sending records by special methods such as express mail, etc.
(b)
Categories of requesters.
(1) For purposes of assessing fees as set forth in this section, each requester shall be assigned to one of the following categories:
(i)
Commercial user
refers to one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. The CFPB's decision to place a requester in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis based on how the requester will use the information.
(ii)
Educational institution
refers to any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this fee category must show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution. Agencies may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and agencies will advise requesters of their placement in this category.

# Example 1 to paragraph (b)(1)(ii).
A request from a professor of geology at a university for records relating to soil erosion, written on letterhead of the Department of Geology, would be presumed to be from an educational institution.

# Example 2 to paragraph (b)(1)(ii).
A request from the same professor of geology seeking drug information from the Food and Drug Administration in furtherance of a murder mystery he is writing would not be presumed to be an institutional request, regardless of whether it was written on institutional stationery.

# Example 3 to paragraph (b)(1)(ii).
A student who makes a request in furtherance of their
coursework or other school-sponsored activities and provides a copy of a course syllabus or other reasonable documentation to indicate the research purpose for the request, would qualify as part of this fee category.
(iii)
Non-commercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a “commercial user” basis as that term is defined in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(iv)
Representative of the news media
refers to any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. In this paragraph (b)(1)(iv), the term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news-media entities are television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large and publishers of periodicals (but only if such entities qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase by or subscription by or free distribution to the general public. Other examples of news media entities include online publications and websites that regularly deliver news content to the public. These examples are not all-inclusive. Moreover, as methods of news delivery evolve (for example, the adoption of the electronic dissemination of newspapers through telecommunications services), such alternative media shall be considered to be news-media entities. A freelance journalist shall be regarded as working for a news-media entity if the journalist can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that entity, whether or not the journalist is actually employed by the entity. A publication contract would present a solid basis for such an expectation; the CFPB may also consider the past publication record of the requester in making such a determination.
(v)
Other requester
refers to a requester who does not fall within any of the categories described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(2) Within twenty (20) calendar days of its receipt of a request, the CFPB shall make a determination as to the proper fee category to apply to a requester. The CFPB shall inform the requester of the determination in the request acknowledgment letter, or if no such letter is required, in another writing. Where the CFPB has reasonable cause to doubt the use to which a requester will put the records sought, or where that use is not clear from the request itself, the CFPB should seek additional clarification before assigning the request to a specific category.
(3) If the CFPB assigns to a requester a fee category, then the requester shall have the right to submit an appeal of the CFPB's determination in accordance with § 1070.21. The CFPB shall communicate this appeal right as part of its written notification to the requester of an adverse fee category determination. The requester shall label its appeal request “Appeal of Fee Category Determination.”
(c)
Fees applicable to each category of requester.
The following fee schedule applies uniformly throughout the CFPB to requests processed under the FOIA. Specific levels of fees are prescribed for each category of requester defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) Commercial users shall be charged the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing, and duplicating the records they request. Moreover, when a request is received for disclosure that is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, the CFPB is not required to consider a request for a waiver or reduction of fees based upon the assertion that disclosure would be in the public interest. The CFPB may recover the cost of searching for and reviewing records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records or no records are located.
(2) Educational and non-commercial scientific institution requesters shall be charged only for the cost of duplicating the records they request, except that the CFPB shall provide the first one hundred (100) pages of duplication free of charge.
(3) Representatives of the news media shall be charged only for the cost of duplicating the records they request, except that the CFPB shall provide them
with the first one hundred (100) pages of duplication free of charge.
(4) Other requesters who do not fit any of the categories described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section shall be charged the full direct cost of searching for and duplicating records that are responsive to the request, except that the CFPB shall provide the first one hundred (100) pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time free of charge. The CFPB may recover the cost of searching for records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records, or no records are located. Requests from persons for records about themselves filed in the CFPB's systems of records shall continue to be treated under the fee provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, which permit fees only for duplication, after the first one hundred (100) pages are furnished free of charge.
(d)
Other circumstances when fees are not charged.
In the following situations the CFPB may not charge a requester certain FOIA processing fees.
(1) If the cost of collecting a fee would be equal to or greater than the total FOIA processing fee, then the CFPB shall not charge a requester any FOIA processing fees.
(2) If the total search and review fees are less than $250, then the CFPB shall not charge a requester any search and review fees.
(3) If the CFPB has waived or reduced FOIA processing fees in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, then the CFPB shall not charge the portion of the FOIA processing fees that has been waived or reduced.
(4) If the CFPB fails to comply with any time limit under § 1070.15 or § 1070.21, then the CFPB shall not assess search fees or if the requester is a representative of the news media or an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, then the CFPB shall not assess duplication fees, unless:
(i) A court has determined that exceptional circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, exist; or
(ii) The CFPB has determined that unusual circumstances apply to the processing of the request; and
(A) Provided timely written notice to the requester of the unusual circumstances in accordance with § 1070.16(d);
(B) Determined that more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request; and
(C) Discussed with the requester via mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request.
(5) If the CFPB determines, as a matter of administrative discretion, that waiving or reducing the fees would serve the interest of the United States Government.
(e)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) A requester shall be entitled to receive from the CFPB a waiver or reduction in the fees otherwise applicable to a FOIA request whenever the requester:
(i) Requests such waiver or reduction of fees in writing as part of the FOIA request;
(ii) Labels the request for waiver or reduction of fees “Fee Waiver or Reduction Requested” on the FOIA request; and
(iii) Demonstrates that the fee reduction or waiver request that a waiver or reduction of the fees is in the public interest because:
(A) Furnishing the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government; and
(B) Furnishing the information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(2) To determine whether the requester has satisfied the requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, the CFPB shall consider the following factors:
(i) The subject of the requested records must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal government, with a connection that is direct and clear, and not remote or attenuated.
(ii) The disclosable portions of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities in order to be “likely to contribute” to an increased public understanding of those operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either a duplicative or a substantially similar form, is not as
likely to contribute to the public's understanding.
(iii) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area and ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public shall be considered. It shall be presumed that a representative of the news media will satisfy this consideration.
(iv) The public's understanding of the subject in question, as compared to the level of public understanding existing prior to the disclosure, must be enhanced by the disclosure to a significant extent.
(3) To determine whether the requester has satisfied the requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, the CFPB shall consider the following factors:
(i) The CFPB shall consider any commercial interest of the requester (with reference to the definition of “commercial user” in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section), or of any person on whose behalf the requester may be acting, that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. Requesters shall be given an opportunity in the administrative process to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.
(ii) A fee waiver or reduction is justified where the public interest standard is satisfied and that public interest is greater in magnitude than that of any identified commercial interest in disclosure. The CFPB ordinarily shall presume that where a news media requester has satisfied the public interest standard, the public interest will be the interest primarily served by disclosure to that requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return shall not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(4) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver shall be granted for those records.
(5) If the CFPB denies a request to reduce or waive fees, then the CFPB shall advise the requester, in the denial notification letter, that the requester may incur fees if the CFPB proceeds to process the request. The notification letter shall also advise the requester that the CFPB will not proceed to process the request further unless the requester, in writing, directs the CFPB to do so and either agrees to pay any fees that may apply to processing the request or specifies an upper limit that the requester is willing to pay to process the request. If the CFPB does not receive this written direction and agreement/specification within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the denial notification letter, then the CFPB shall deem the request to be withdrawn.
(6) If the CFPB denies a request to reduce or waive fees, then the requester shall have the right to submit an appeal of the denial determination in accordance with § 1070.21. The CFPB shall communicate this appeal right as part of its written notification to the requester denying the fee reduction or waiver request. The requester should label its appeal request “Appeal for Fee Reduction/Waiver.”
(f)
Advance notice and prepayment of fees.
(1) The CFPB shall notify a requester of the estimated fees for processing a request and provide a breakdown of the fees attributable to search, review, and duplication, when the estimated fees are $250 or more and:
(i) The fees exceed the limit set by the requester;
(ii) The requester did not specify a limit; or
(iii) The CFPB has denied a request for a reduction or waiver of fees.
(2) The requester must provide an agreement to pay the estimated fees; however, the requester shall also be given an opportunity to reformulate the request in an attempt to reduce fees.
(3) If the fees are estimated to exceed $1000, the requester must pre-pay such amount prior to the processing of the request, or provide satisfactory assurance of full payment if the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees. The requester shall also be given an opportunity to reformulate the request in such a way as to lower the applicable fees.
(4) The CFPB reserves the right to request prepayment after a request is processed and before documents are released.
(5) If a requester has previously failed to pay a fee within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the billing, the requester shall be required to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the CFPB begins to process a new request or the pending request.
(6) When the CFPB acts under paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section, the statutory time limits of twenty (20) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from receipt of initial requests or appeals, plus extensions of these time limits, shall begin only after fees have been paid, a written agreement to pay fees has been provided, or a request has been reformulated.
(g)
Form of payment.
Payment may be tendered as set forth on the CFPB's website,
http://www.consumerfinance.gov.
(h)
Charging interest.
The CFPB may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the date of the billing until payment is received by the CFPB. The CFPB will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(i)
Aggregating requests.
Where the CFPB reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting together is attempting to divide a request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the CFPB may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. The CFPB may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a thirty (30) day period have been made in order to avoid fees. Where requests are separated by a longer period, the CFPB will aggregate them only where there exists a solid basis for determining that aggregation is warranted under all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters will not be aggregated.
§ 1070.23
Authority and responsibilities of the Chief FOIA Officer.
(a)
Chief FOIA Officer.
The Director authorizes the Chief FOIA Officer to act upon all requests for agency records, with the exception of determining appeals from the initial determinations of the Chief FOIA Officer, which will be decided by the General Counsel. The Chief FOIA officer shall, subject to the authority of the Director:
(1) Have CFPB-wide responsibility for efficient and appropriate compliance with the FOIA;
(2) Monitor implementation of the FOIA throughout the CFPB and keep the Director, the General Counsel, and the Attorney General appropriately informed of the CFPB's performance in implementing the FOIA;
(3) Recommend to the Director such adjustments to agency practices, policies, personnel and funding as may be necessary to improve the Chief FOIA Officer's implementation of the FOIA;
(4) Review and report to the Attorney General, through the Director, at such times and in such formats as the Attorney General may direct, on the CFPB's performance in implementing the FOIA;
(5) Facilitate public understanding of the purposes of the statutory exemptions of the FOIA by including concise descriptions of the exemptions in both the CFPB's handbook and the CFPB's annual report on the FOIA, and by providing an overview, where appropriate, of certain general categories of CFPB records to which those exemptions apply;
(6) Designate one or more FOIA Public Liaisons;
(7) Offer Training to Bureau staff regarding their responsibilities under the FOIA;
(8) Serve as the primary Bureau liaison with the Office of Government Information Services and the Office of Information Policy; and
(9) Maintain and update, as necessary and in accordance with the requirements of this subpart, the CFPB's FOIA website, including its e-FOIA Library.
(b)
FOIA Public Liaisons.
FOIA Public Liaisons shall report to the Chief FOIA Officer and shall serve as supervisory officials to whom a requester can raise concerns about the service the requester has received from the CFPB's FOIA office, following an initial response from the FOIA office staff. FOIA Public Liaisons shall be responsible for assisting in reducing delays, increasing transparency and understanding of the status of requests, and assisting in the resolution of disputes.

# Subpart C—Disclosure of CFPB Information in Connection with Legal Proceedings

# Source:
83 FR 46084, Sept. 12, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1070.30
Purpose and scope; definitions.
(a) This subpart sets forth the procedures to be followed with respect to subpoenas, court orders, or other requests or demands for any CFPB information, whether contained in the files of the CFPB or acquired by a CFPB employee as part of the performance of that employee's duties or by virtue of employee's official status.
(b) This subpart does not apply to requests for official information made pursuant to subparts B, D, and E of this part.
(c) This subpart does not apply to requests for information made in the course of adjudicating claims against the CFPB by CFPB employees (present or former) or applicants for CFPB employment for which jurisdiction resides with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board, the Office of Special Counsel, the Federal Labor Relations Authority, or their successor agencies, or a labor arbitrator operating under a collective bargaining agreement between the CFPB and a labor organization representing CFPB employees.
(d) This subpart is intended only to inform the public about CFPB procedures concerning the service of process and responses to subpoenas, summons, or other demands or requests for official information or action and is not intended to and does not create, and may not be relied upon to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the CFPB or the United States.
(e) For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Demand
means a subpoena or order for official information, whether contained in CFPB records or through testimony, related to or for possible use in a legal proceeding.
(2)
Legal proceeding
encompasses all pre-trial, trial, and post-trial stages of all judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before courts, commissions, boards, grand juries, arbitrators, or other judicial or quasi-judicial bodies or tribunals, whether criminal, civil, or administrative in nature, and whether foreign or domestic. This phrase includes all stages of discovery as well as formal or informal requests by attorneys, their agents, or others involved in legal proceedings.
(3)
Official Information
means all information of any kind, however stored, that is in the custody and control of the CFPB or was acquired by CFPB employees, or former employees as part of their official duties or because of their official status while such individuals were employed by or served on behalf of the CFPB. Official information also includes any information acquired by CFPB employees or former employees while such individuals were engaged in matters related to consumer financial protection functions prior to the employees' transfer to the CFPB pursuant to Subtitle F of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010.
(4)
Request
means any request for official information in the form of testimony, affidavits, declarations, admissions, responses to interrogatories, document production, inspections, or formal or informal interviews, during the course of a legal proceeding, including pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, or other applicable rules of procedure.
(5)
Testimony
means a statement in any form, including personal appearances before a court or other legal tribunal, interviews, depositions, telephonic, televised, or videographed
statements or any responses given during discovery or similar proceeding in the course of litigation.
§ 1070.31
Service of subpoenas, court orders, and other demands for CFPB information or action.
(a) Except in cases in which the CFPB is represented by legal counsel who have entered an appearance or otherwise given notice of their representation, only the General Counsel is authorized to receive and accept subpoenas or other demands or requests directed to the CFPB or its employees, whether civil or criminal in nature, for:
(1) Records of the CFPB;
(2) Official information including, but not limited to, testimony, affidavits, declarations, admissions, responses to interrogatories, or informal statements, relating to material contained in the files of the CFPB or which any CFPB employee acquired in the course and scope of the performance of his or her official duties;
(3) Garnishment or attachment of compensation of current or former employees; or
(4) The performance or non-performance of any official CFPB duty.
(b) Documents described in paragraph (a) of this section should be served upon the General Counsel, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552. Service must be effected as provided in applicable rules and regulations governing service in Federal judicial and administrative proceedings. Acceptance of such documents by the General Counsel does not constitute a waiver of any defense that might otherwise exist with respect to service under the Federal Rules of Civil or Criminal Procedure or other applicable laws or regulations.
(c) In the event that any demand or request described in paragraph (a) of this section is sought to be delivered to a CFPB employee other than in the manner prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, such employee shall decline service and direct the server of process to these regulations. If the demand or request is nonetheless delivered to the employee, the employee shall immediately notify, and deliver a copy of that document to, the General Counsel.
(d) The CFPB is not an agent for service for, or otherwise authorized to accept on behalf of its employees, any subpoenas, orders, or other demands or requests, which are not related to the employees' official duties.
(e) Copies of any subpoenas, orders, or other demands or requests that are directed to former employees of the CFPB in connection with the performance of official CFPB duties shall also be served upon the General Counsel. The CFPB shall not, however, serve as an agent for service for the former employee, nor is the CFPB otherwise authorized to accept service on behalf of its former employees. If the demand involves their official duties as CFPB employees, former employees who receive subpoenas, orders, or similar compulsory process should also notify, and deliver a copy of the document to, the General Counsel.
§ 1070.32
Testimony and production of documents prohibited unless approved by the General Counsel.
(a) Unless authorized by the General Counsel, no employee or former employee of the CFPB shall, in response to a demand or a request provide oral or written testimony by deposition, declaration, affidavit, or otherwise concerning any official information.
(b) Unless authorized by the General Counsel, no employee or former employee shall, in response to a demand or request, produce any document or any material acquired as part of the performance of that employee's duties or by virtue of that employee's official status.
§ 1070.33
Procedure when testimony or production of documents is sought; general.
(a) If, as part of a proceeding in which the United States or the CFPB is not a party, official information is sought through a demand for testimony, CFPB records, or other material, the party seeking such information must (except as otherwise required by Federal law or authorized by the General Counsel) set forth in writing:
(1) The title and forum of the proceeding, if applicable;
(2) A detailed description of the nature and relevance of the official information sought;
(3) A showing that other evidence reasonably suited to the requester's needs is not available from any other source; and
(4) If testimony is requested, the intended use of the testimony, a general summary of the desired testimony, and a showing that no document could be provided and used in lieu of testimony.
(b) To the extent he or she deems necessary or appropriate, the General Counsel may also require from the party seeking such information a plan of all reasonably foreseeable demands, including but not limited to the names of all employees and former employees from whom testimony or discovery will be sought, areas of inquiry, expected duration of proceedings requiring oral testimony, identification of potentially relevant documents, or any other information deemed necessary to make a determination. The purpose of this requirement is to assist the General Counsel in making an informed decision regarding whether testimony, the production of documents, or the provision of other information should be authorized.
(c) The General Counsel may consult or negotiate with an attorney for a party, or the party if not represented by an attorney, to refine or limit a request or demand so that compliance is less burdensome.
(d) The General Counsel will notify the CFPB employee and such other persons as circumstances may warrant of his or her decision regarding compliance with the request or demand.
§ 1070.34
Procedure when response to demand is required prior to receiving instructions.
(a) If a response to a demand described in § 1070.33 is required before the General Counsel renders a decision, the CFPB will request that the appropriate CFPB attorney or an attorney of the Department of Justice, as appropriate, take steps to stay, postpone, or obtain relief from the demand pending decision. If necessary, the attorney will:
(1) Appear with the employee upon whom the demand has been made;
(2) Furnish the court or other authority with a copy of the regulations contained in this subpart;
(3) Inform the court or other authority that the demand has been, or is being, as the case may be, referred for the prompt consideration of the appropriate CFPB official; and
(4) Request the court or authority to stay the demand pending receipt of the requested instructions.
(b) In the event that an immediate demand for production or disclosure is made in circumstances which would preclude the proper designation or appearance of an attorney of the CFPB or the Department of Justice on the employee's behalf, the employee, if necessary, shall request from the demanding court or authority a reasonable stay of proceedings for the purpose of obtaining instructions from the General Counsel.
§ 1070.35
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
If a stay of, or other relief from, the effect of a demand made pursuant to §§ 1070.33 and 1070.34 is declined or not obtained, or if the court or other judicial or quasi-judicial authority declines to stay the effect of the demand made pursuant to §§ 1070.33 and 1070.34, or if the court or other authority rules that the demand must be complied with irrespective of the General Counsel's instructions not to produce the material or disclose the information sought, the employee upon whom the demand has been made shall decline to comply with the demand citing this subpart and
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
§ 1070.36
Considerations in determining whether the CFPB will comply with a demand or request.
(a) In deciding whether to comply with a demand or request, CFPB officials and attorneys shall consider, among other pertinent considerations:
(1) Whether such compliance would be unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery or the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand arose;
(2) Whether the number of similar requests would have a cumulative effect on the expenditure of CFPB resources;
(3) Whether compliance is appropriate under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege or disclosure of information;
(4) The public interest;
(5) The need to conserve the time of CFPB employees for the conduct of official business;
(6) The need to avoid spending time and money of the United States for private purposes;
(7) The need to maintain impartiality between private litigants in cases where a substantial government interest is not implicated;
(8) Whether compliance would have an adverse effect on performance by the CFPB of its mission and duties;
(9) The need to avoid involving the CFPB in controversial issues not related to its mission;
(10) Whether compliance would interfere with supervisory examinations, compromise the CFPB's supervisory functions or programs, or undermine public confidence in supervised financial institutions; and
(11) Whether compliance would interfere with the CFPB's ability to monitor for risks to consumers in the offering or provision of consumer financial products and services.
(b) Among those demands and requests in response to which compliance will not ordinarily be authorized are those with respect to which any of the following factors, inter alia, exist:
(1) Compliance would violate a statute or applicable rule of procedure;
(2) Compliance would violate a specific regulation or Executive order;
(3) Compliance would reveal information properly classified in the interest of national security;
(4) Compliance would reveal confidential or privileged commercial or financial information or trade secrets without the owner's consent;
(5) Compliance would compromise the integrity of the deliberative processes of the CFPB;
(6) Compliance would not be appropriate or necessary under the relevant substantive law governing privilege;
(7) Compliance would reveal confidential information; or
(8) Compliance would interfere with ongoing investigations or enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, or reveal the identity of a confidential informant.
(c) The CFPB may condition disclosure of official information pursuant to a request or demand on the entry of an appropriate protective order.
§ 1070.37
Prohibition on providing expert or opinion testimony.
(a) Except as provided in this section, and subject to 5 CFR 2635.805, CFPB employees or former employees shall not provide opinion or expert testimony based upon information which they acquired in the scope and performance of their official CFPB duties, except on behalf of the CFPB or the United States or a party represented by the CFPB, or the Department of Justice, as appropriate.
(b) Any expert or opinion testimony by a former employee of the CFPB shall be excepted from paragraph (a) of this section where the testimony involves only general expertise gained while employed at the CFPB.
(c) Upon a showing by the requester of exceptional need or unique circumstances and that the anticipated testimony will not be adverse to the interests of the United States, the General Counsel may, consistent with 5 CFR 2635.805, exercise his or her discretion to grant special, written authorization for CFPB employees, or former employees, to appear and testify as expert witnesses at no expense to the United States.
(d) If, despite the final determination of the General Counsel, a court of competent jurisdiction or other appropriate authority orders the appearance and expert or opinion testimony of a current or former CFPB employee, that person shall immediately inform the General Counsel of such order. If the General Counsel determines that no further legal review of or challenge to the court's order will be made, the CFPB employee, or former employee, shall comply with the order. If so directed by the General Counsel, however, the employee, or former employee, shall decline to testify.

# Subpart D—Confidential Information

# Source:
85 FR 75217, Nov. 24, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1070.40
Purpose and scope.
This subpart does not apply to requests for official information made pursuant to subpart B, C, or E of this part.
§ 1070.41
Non-disclosure of confidential information.
(a)
Non-disclosure.
Except as required by law or as provided in this part, no current or former employee or contractor or consultant of the CFPB, or any other person in possession of confidential information, shall disclose such confidential information by any means (including written or oral communications) or in any format (including paper and electronic formats), to:
(1) Any person who is not an employee, contractor, or consultant of the CFPB; or
(2) Any CFPB employee, contractor, or consultant when the disclosure of such confidential information to that employee, contractor, or consultant is not relevant to the performance of the employee's, contractor's, or consultant's assigned duties.
(b)
Disclosures to contractors and consultants.
CFPB contractors or consultants must treat confidential information in accordance with this part, other Federal laws and regulations that apply to Federal agencies for the protection of the confidentiality of personally identifiable information and for data security and integrity, as well as any additional conditions or limitations that the CFPB may impose. CFPB contractors or consultants may receive confidential information only if such contractors or consultants certify in writing to treat such confidential information in accordance with the requirements identified in this paragraph (b).
(c)
Disclosure of materials derived from confidential information.
The CFPB may, in its discretion, disclose materials that it derives from or creates using confidential information to the extent that such materials do not identify, either directly or indirectly, any particular person to whom the confidential information pertains.
(d)
Disclosure of confidential information with consent.
Where practicable, the CFPB may, in its discretion and in accordance with applicable law, disclose confidential information that directly or indirectly identifies particular persons if the CFPB obtains prior consent from such persons to make the disclosure.
(e)
Nondisclosure of confidential information belonging to other agencies.
Nothing in this subpart requires or authorizes the CFPB to disclose confidential information belonging to another agency that has been provided to the CFPB (either directly or through a holder of the information such as a financial institution) to the extent that such disclosure contravenes applicable law or the terms of any agreement that exists between the CFPB and the agency to govern the CFPB's treatment of information that the agency provides to the CFPB.
§ 1070.42
Disclosure of confidential supervisory information and confidential investigative information.
(a)
Discretionary disclosure of confidential supervisory information or confidential investigative information by the CFPB.
The CFPB may, in its discretion, and to the extent consistent with applicable law, disclose confidential supervisory information or confidential investigative information concerning a person or its service providers to that person or to its affiliates.
(b)
Further disclosure of confidential supervisory information.
Unless directed otherwise by the Supervision Director:
(1) Any supervised financial institution lawfully in possession of confidential supervisory information of the CFPB provided directly to it by the CFPB pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may disclose such information, or portions thereof, to its affiliates and to the following individuals to the extent that the disclosure of such confidential supervisory information is relevant to the performance of such individuals' assigned duties:
(i) Its directors, officers, trustees, members, general partners, or employees; and
(ii) The directors, officers, trustees, members, general partners, or employees of its affiliates.
(2) Any supervised financial institution or affiliate thereof that is lawfully in possession of confidential supervisory information of the CFPB provided directly to it by the CFPB pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may disclose such information, or portions thereof, to:
(i) Its certified public accountant, legal counsel, contractor, consultant, or service provider;
(ii) Its insurance provider pursuant to a claim made under an existing policy, provided that the Bureau has not precluded indemnification or reimbursement for the claim; information disclosed pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) may be used by the insurance provider solely for purposes of administering such a claim; or
(iii) Another person, with the prior written approval of the Supervision Director.
(3) Where a supervised financial institution or its affiliate discloses confidential supervisory information of the CFPB pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section:
(i) The recipient of such confidential supervisory information shall not, without the prior written approval of the Supervision Director utilize, make, or retain copies of, or disclose confidential supervisory information for any purpose, except as is necessary to provide advice or services to the supervised financial institution or its affiliate; and
(ii) The supervised financial institution or its affiliate disclosing the confidential supervisory information shall take reasonable steps to ensure that the recipient complies with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(4) Nothing in this paragraph (b) authorizes a supervised financial institution or affiliate thereof to further disclose confidential information belonging to another agency.
(c)
Further disclosure of confidential investigative information.
Nothing in this subpart shall prohibit any person lawfully in possession of confidential investigative information of the CFPB pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section from further disclosing that confidential investigative information.
[85 FR 75217, Nov. 24, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]
§ 1070.43
Disclosure of confidential information to agencies.
(a)
Required disclosure of confidential information to agencies.
The CFPB shall:
(1) Disclose a draft of a report of examination of a supervised financial institution prior to its finalization, as provided in 12 U.S.C. 5515(e)(1)(C), and disclose a final report of examination, including any and all revisions made to such a report, as provided in 12 U.S.C. 5512(c)(6)(C)(i), to a Federal or State agency with jurisdiction over that supervised financial institution, provided that the CFPB receives from the agency reasonable assurances as to the confidentiality of the information disclosed; and
(2) Disclose confidential consumer complaint information to a Federal or State agency to facilitate preparation of reports to Congress required by 12 U.S.C. 5493(b)(3)(C) and to facilitate the CFPB's supervision and enforcement activities and its monitoring of the market for consumer financial products and services, provided that the agency shall first give written assurance to the CFPB that it will maintain such information in confidence, including in a manner that conforms to the standards that apply to Federal agencies for the protection of the confidentiality of personally identifiable information and for data security and integrity.
(b)
Discretionary disclosure of confidential information to agencies.
(1) Upon receipt of a written request that contains the information required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the CFPB may, in its discretion, disclose confidential information to a Federal or State agency to the extent that the disclosure of the information is relevant to the exercise of the agency's statutory or regulatory authority or, with respect to the disclosure of confidential supervisory information, to a Federal or State agency having jurisdiction over a supervised financial institution.
(2) To obtain access to confidential information pursuant to paragraph
(b)(1) of this section, an authorized officer or employee of the agency shall submit a written request to the Director. The request shall include the following:
(i) A description of the particular information, kinds of information, and where possible, the particular documents to which access is sought;
(ii) A statement of the purpose for which the information will be used;
(iii) A statement certifying and identifying, as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the agency's statutory or regulatory authority that is relevant to the requested information or, with respect to a request for confidential supervisory information, the agency's jurisdiction over a supervised financial institution;
(iv) A statement certifying and identifying the agency's legal authority for protecting the requested information from public disclosure; and
(v) A certification that the agency will maintain the requested confidential information in confidence, including in a manner that conforms to the standards that apply to Federal agencies for the protection of the confidentiality of personally identifiable information and for data security and integrity, as well as any additional conditions or limitations that the CFPB may impose.
(c)
Negotiation of standing requests.
The CFPB may negotiate terms governing the exchange of confidential information with Federal or State agencies on a standing basis, as appropriate.
§ 1070.44
Disclosure of confidential consumer complaint information.
The CFPB may, to the extent permitted by law, disclose confidential consumer complaint information as it deems necessary to investigate, resolve, or otherwise respond to consumer complaints or inquiries concerning consumer financial products and services or a violation of Federal consumer financial law.
§ 1070.45
Affirmative disclosure of confidential information.
(a) The CFPB may disclose confidential information, in accordance with applicable law, as follows:
(1) To a CFPB employee, as that term is defined in § 1070.2 and in accordance with § 1070.41;
(2) To either House of the Congress or to an appropriate committee or subcommittee of the Congress, as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5562(d)(2), provided that, upon the receipt by the CFPB of a request from the Congress for confidential information that a financial institution submitted to the CFPB along with a claim that such information consists of a trade secret or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information, or confidential supervisory information, the CFPB shall notify the financial institution in writing of its receipt of the request and provide the institution with a copy of the request;
(3) In investigational hearings and witness interviews, or otherwise in the investigation and administration of enforcement actions, as is reasonably necessary, at the discretion of the CFPB;
(4) In an administrative or court proceeding to which the CFPB is a party. In the case of confidential investigative information that contains any trade secret or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information, as claimed by designation by the submitter of such material, or confidential supervisory information, the submitter, or the CFPB, in its discretion, may seek an appropriate order prior to disclosure of such material in a proceeding;
(5) In CFPB personnel matters, as necessary and subject to appropriate protections;
(6) To agencies in summary form to the extent necessary to confer with such agencies about matters relevant to the exercise of the agencies' statutory or regulatory authority; or
(7) As required under any other applicable law.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1070.46
Other disclosures of confidential information.
(a) To the extent permitted by law and as authorized by the Director in writing, the CFPB may disclose confidential information other than as set forth in this subpart.
(b) Prior to disclosing confidential information pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the CFPB may, as it deems appropriate under the circumstances, provide written notice to the person to whom the confidential information pertains that the CFPB intends to disclose its confidential information in accordance with this section.
(c) The authority of the Director to disclose confidential information pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall not be delegated. However, a person authorized to perform the functions of the Director in accordance with law may exercise the authority of the Director as set forth in this section.
§ 1070.47
Other rules regarding the disclosure of confidential information.
(a)
Further disclosure prohibited.
(1) All confidential information made available under this subpart shall remain the property of the CFPB, unless the General Counsel provides otherwise in writing.
(2) Except as set forth in this subpart, no supervised financial institution, Federal or State agency, any officer, director, employee or agent thereof, or any other person to whom the confidential information is made available under this subpart, may further disclose such confidential information without the prior written permission of the Director.
(3) No person obtaining access to confidential information pursuant to this subpart may make a personal copy of any such information, and no person may remove confidential information from the premises of the institution or agency in possession of such information except as permitted under this subpart or by the CFPB.
(b)
Third party requests for information.
(1) A supervised financial institution, Federal or State agency, any officer, director, employee or agent thereof, or any other person to whom the CFPB's confidential information is made available under this subpart, that receives from a third party a legally enforceable demand or request for such confidential information (including but not limited to, a subpoena or discovery request or a request made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or any State analogue to such statutes) should:
(i) Inform the General Counsel of such request or demand in writing and provide the General Counsel with a copy of such request or demand as soon as practicable after receiving it;
(ii) To the extent permitted by applicable law, advise the requester that:
(A) The confidential information sought may not be disclosed insofar as it is the property of the CFPB; and
(B) Any request for the disclosure of such confidential information is properly directed to the CFPB pursuant to its regulations set forth in this subpart; and
(iii) Consult with the General Counsel before complying with the request or demand, and to the extent applicable:
(A) Give the CFPB a reasonable opportunity to respond to the demand or request;
(B) Assert all reasonable and appropriate legal exemptions or privileges that the CFPB may request be asserted on its behalf; and
(C) Consent to a motion by the CFPB to intervene in any action for the purpose of asserting and preserving any claims of confidentiality with respect to any confidential information.
(2) Nothing in this section shall prevent a supervised financial institution, Federal or State agency, any officer, director, employee or agent thereof, or any other person to whom the information is made available under this subpart from complying with a legally valid and enforceable order of a court of competent jurisdiction compelling production of the CFPB's confidential information, or, if compliance is deemed compulsory, with a request or demand from either House of the Congress or a duly authorized committee of the Congress. To the extent that compulsory disclosure of confidential information occurs as set forth in this paragraph (b)(2), the producing party shall use its best efforts to ensure that the requestor secures an appropriate protective order or, if the requestor is a legislative body, use its best efforts to obtain the commitment or agreement of the legislative body that it
will maintain the confidentiality of the confidential information.
(c)
Additional conditions and limitations.
The CFPB may impose any additional conditions or limitations on disclosure or use under this subpart that it determines are necessary.
(d)
Return or destruction of records.
Except with respect to confidential investigative information disclosed pursuant to § 1070.42(a), the CFPB may require any person in possession of CFPB confidential information to return the records to the CFPB or destroy them.
(e)
Non-waiver of CFPB rights.
Except as provided in § 1070.42(c), the disclosure of confidential information to any person in accordance with this subpart does not constitute a waiver by the CFPB of its right to control, or impose limitations on, the subsequent use and dissemination of the information.
(f)
Non-waiver of privilege
—(1)
In general.
The CFPB shall not be deemed to have waived any privilege applicable to any information by transferring that information to, or permitting that information to be used by, any Federal or State agency.
(2)
Rule of construction.
Paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying that any person waives any privilege applicable to any information because paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply to the transfer or use of that information.
(g)
Reports of unauthorized disclosure.
Any person that obtains confidential information under this subpart shall, as soon as possible and without unreasonable delay, notify the CFPB upon the discovery of any further disclosures made in violation of this subpart.
§ 1070.48
Disclosure of confidential information by the Inspector General.
Nothing in this subpart shall limit the discretion of the Office of the Inspector General of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to disclose confidential information as needed in accordance with the Inspector General Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. App. 3.

# Subpart E—Privacy Act

# Source:
83 FR 46095, Sept. 12, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1070.50
Purpose and scope; definitions.
(a) This subpart implements the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a (the Privacy Act). The regulations apply to all records maintained by the CFPB and which are retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. The regulations set forth the procedures for requests for access to, or amendment of, records concerning individuals that are contained in systems of records maintained by the CFPB. These regulations should be read in conjunction with the Privacy Act, which provides additional information about this topic.
(b) For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(1) The term
Chief Privacy Officer
means the Senior Agency Official for Privacy of the CFPB or any CFPB employee to whom the Senior Agency Official for Privacy has delegated authority to act under this part;
(2) The term
guardian
means the parent of a minor, or the legal guardian of any individual who has been declared to be incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(3)
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
(4)
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate;
(5)
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, his education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voiceprint or a photograph;
(6)
Routine use
means the disclosure of a record that is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected;
(7)
System of records
means a group of any records under the control of an agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual
or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual; and
(8)
Statistical record
means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8.
[83 FR 46095, Sept. 12, 2018, as amended at 86 FR 48901, Sept. 1, 2021]
§ 1070.51
Authority and responsibilities of the Chief Privacy Officer.
The Chief Privacy Officer is authorized to:
(a) Develop, implement, and maintain an organization-wide privacy program;
(b) Respond to requests for access to, accounting of, or amendment of records contained in a system of records maintained by the CFPB;
(c) Approve the publication of new systems of records and amend existing systems of record; and
(d) File any necessary reports related to the Privacy Act.
§ 1070.52
Fees.
(a)
Copies of records.
The CFPB shall provide the requester with copies of records requested pursuant to § 1070.53 at the same cost charged for duplication of records under § 1070.22.
(b)
No fee.
The CFPB will not charge a fee if:
(1) Total charges associated with a request are less than $5; or
(2) The requester is a CFPB employee or former employee, or an applicant for employment with the CFPB, and the request pertains to that employee, former employee, or applicant.
§ 1070.53
Request for access to records.
(a)
Procedures for making a request for access to records.
An individual's requests for access to records that pertain to that individual (or to the individual for whom the requester serves as guardian) may be submitted to the CFPB in writing as follows:
(1) If submitted by mail or delivery service, the request shall be labeled “Privacy Act Request” and shall be addressed to the Chief Privacy Officer, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552.
(2) If submitted by electronic means, the request shall be labeled “Privacy Act Request” and the request shall be submitted as set forth at the CFPB's website,
http://www.consumerfinance.gov.
(b)
Content of a request for access to records.
A request for access to records shall include:
(1) A statement that the request is made pursuant to the Privacy Act;
(2) The name of the system of records that the requester believes contains the record requested, or a description of the nature of the record sought in detail sufficient to enable CFPB personnel to locate the system of records containing the record with a reasonable amount of effort;
(3) Whenever possible, a description of the nature of the record sought, the date of the record or the period in which the requester believes that the record was created, and any other information that might assist the CFPB in identifying the record sought (
e.g.,
maiden name, dates of employment, account information, etc.);
(4) Information necessary to verify the requester's identity pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; and
(5) The mailing or email address where the CFPB's response or further correspondence should be sent.
(c)
Verification of identity.
To obtain access to the CFPB's records pertaining to a requester, the requester shall provide proof to the CFPB of the requester's identity as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) In general, the following will be considered adequate proof of a requester's identity:
(i) A photocopy of two forms of identification, including one form of identification that bears the requester's photograph, and one form of identification that bears the requester's signature;
(ii) A photocopy of a single form of identification that bears both the requester's photograph and signature;
(iii) A statement swearing or affirming the requester's identity and to the fact that the requester understands the penalties provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3); or
(iv) Successful completion of a third-party's identity verification process, designated by the Bureau, where that process meets the requirements of Identity Assurance Level 2 (IAL2) as described by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a designated official may require additional proof of the requester's identity before action will be taken on any request, if such official determines that it is necessary to protect against unauthorized disclosure of information in a particular case. In addition, if a requester seeks records pertaining to an individual in the requester's capacity as that individual's guardian, the requester shall be required to provide adequate proof of the requester's legal relationship before action will be taken on any request.
(d)
Request for accounting of previous disclosures.
An individual may request an accounting of previous disclosures of records pertaining to that individual in a system of records as provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(c). Such requests should conform to the procedures and form for requests for access to records set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[83 FR 46095, Sept. 12, 2018, as amended at 86 FR 48901, Sept. 1, 2021]
§ 1070.54
CFPB procedures for responding to a request for access.
(a)
Acknowledgment and response.
The CFPB will provide written acknowledgement of the receipt of a request within twenty (20) business days from the receipt of the request and will, where practicable, respond to each request within that twenty (20) day period. When a full response is not practicable within the twenty (20) day period, the CFPB will respond as promptly as possible.
(b)
Disclosure.
(1) When the CFPB discloses information in response to a request, the CFPB will make the information available for inspection and copying during regular business hours as provided in § 1070.13, or the CFPB will mail it or email it to the requester, if feasible, upon request.
(2) The requester may bring with him or her anyone whom the requester chooses to see the requested material. All visitors to the CFPB's buildings must comply with the applicable security procedures.
(c)
Denial of a request.
If the CFPB denies a request made pursuant to § 1070.53, it will inform the requester in writing of the reason(s) for denial and the procedures for appealing the denial.
§ 1070.55
Special procedures for medical records.
If an individual requests medical or psychological records pursuant to § 1070.53, the CFPB will disclose them directly to the requester unless the CFPB determines that such disclosure could have an adverse effect on the requester. If the CFPB makes that determination, the CFPB shall provide the information to a licensed physician or other appropriate representative that the requester designates, who shall disclose those records to the requester in a manner he or she deems appropriate.
§ 1070.56
Request for amendment of records.
(a)
Procedures for making request.
(1) If an individual wishes to amend a record that pertains to that individual in a system of records, that individual may submit a request in writing to the Chief Privacy Officer, as set forth in § 1070.53(a). The request shall be labeled “Privacy Act Amendment Request.”
(2) A request for amendment of a record must:
(i) Identify the name of the system of records that the requester believes contains the record for which the amendment is requested, or a description of the nature of the record in detail sufficient to enable CFPB personnel to locate the system of records containing the record with a reasonable amount of effort;
(ii) Specify the portion of that record requested to be amended; and
(iii) Describe the nature and reasons for each requested amendment.
(3) When making a request for amendment of a record, the CFPB will require a requester to verify his or her identity under the procedures set forth in § 1070.53(c), unless the requester has already done so in a related request for access or amendment.
(b)
Burden of proof.
In a request for amendment of a record, the requester
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete.
§ 1070.57
CFPB review of a request for amendment of records.
(a)
Time limits.
The CFPB will acknowledge a request for amendment of records within ten (10) business days after it receives the request. In the acknowledgment, the CFPB may request additional information necessary for a determination on the request for amendment. The CFPB will make a determination on a request to amend a record promptly.
(b)
Contents of response to a request for amendment.
When the CFPB responds to a request for amendment, the CFPB will inform the requester in writing whether the request is granted or denied, in whole or in part. If the CFPB grants the request, it will take the necessary steps to amend the record and, when appropriate and possible, notify prior recipients of the record of its action. If the CFPB denies the request, in whole or in part, it will inform the requester in writing:
(1) Why the request (or portion of the request) was denied;
(2) That the requester has a right to appeal; and
(3) How to file an appeal.
§ 1070.58
Appeal of adverse determination of request for access or amendment.
(a)
Appeal.
A requester may appeal a denial of a request made pursuant to § 1070.53 or § 1070.56 within ten (10) business days after the CFPB notifies the requester that it has denied the request.
(b)
Content of appeal.
A requester may submit an appeal in writing as set forth in § 1070.53(a). The appeal shall be addressed to the General Counsel and labeled “Privacy Act Appeal.” The appeal must also:
(1) Specify the background of the request; and
(2) Provide reasons why the requester believes the denial is in error.
(c)
Determination.
The General Counsel will make a determination as to whether to grant or deny an appeal within thirty (30) business days from the date it is received, unless the General Counsel extends the time for good cause.
(1) If the General Counsel grants an appeal regarding a request for amendment, he or she will take the necessary steps to amend the record and, when appropriate and possible, notify prior recipients of the record of its action.
(2) If the General Counsel denies an appeal, he or she will inform the requester of such determination in writing, including the reasons for the denial, and the requester's right to file a statement of disagreement and to have a court review its decision.
(d)
Statement of disagreement.
(1) If the General Counsel denies an appeal regarding a request for amendment, a requester may file a concise statement of disagreement with the denial. The CFPB will maintain the requester's statement with the record that the requester sought to amend and any disclosure of the record will include a copy of the requester's statement of disagreement.
(2) When practicable and appropriate, the CFPB will provide a copy of the statement of disagreement to any prior recipients of the record.
§ 1070.59
Restrictions on disclosure.
The CFPB will not disclose any record about an individual contained in a system of records to any person or agency without the prior written consent of that individual unless the disclosure is authorized by 5 U.S.C. 552a(b). Disclosures authorized by 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) include disclosures that are compatible with one or more routine uses that are contained within the CFPB's Systems of Records Notices, which are available on the CFPB's website, at
http://www.consumerfinance.gov.
§ 1070.60
Exempt records.
(a)
Exempt systems of records.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the CFPB exempts the systems of records listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G)-(H), and (f), and §§ 1070.53 through 1070.59, to the extent that such systems of records contain investigatory materials compiled for law enforcement purposes, provided,
however, that if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit to which he or she would otherwise be entitled under Federal law, or for which he or she would otherwise be eligible as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be disclosed to such individual, except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the CFPB under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence:
(1) CFPB.002 Depository Institution Supervision Database.
(2) CFPB.003 Non-Depository Institution Supervision Database.
(3) CFPB.004 Enforcement Database.
(4) CFPB.005 Consumer Response System.
(b)
Information compiled for civil actions or proceedings.
This subpart does not permit an individual to have access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
§ 1070.61
Training; rules of conduct; penalties for non-compliance.
(a)
Training.
The Chief Privacy Officer shall institute a training program to instruct CFPB employees and contractor personnel covered by 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), who are involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any CFPB system of records, on a continuing basis with respect to the duties and responsibilities imposed on them and the rights conferred on individuals by the Privacy Act, the regulations in this subpart, and any other related regulations. Such training shall provide suitable emphasis on the civil and criminal penalties imposed on the CFPB and the individual employees or contractor personnel by the Privacy Act for non-compliance with specified requirements of the Act as implemented by the regulations in this subpart.
(b)
Rules of conduct.
The following rules of conduct are applicable to employees of the CFPB (including, to the extent required by the contract or 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), Government contractors and employees of such contractors), who are involved in the design, development, operation or maintenance of any system of records, or in maintaining any records, for or on behalf of the CFPB.
(1) The head of each office of the CFPB shall be responsible for assuring that employees subject to such official's supervision are advised of the provisions of the Privacy Act, including the criminal penalties and civil liabilities provided therein, and the regulations in this subpart, and that such employees are made aware of their individual and collective responsibilities to protect the security of personal information, to assure its accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness, to avoid unauthorized disclosure either orally or in writing, and to ensure that no system of records is maintained without public notice.
(2) Employees of the CFPB involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any system of records, or in maintaining any record shall:
(i) Collect no information of a personal nature from individuals unless authorized to collect it to achieve a function or carry out a responsibility of the CFPB;
(ii) Collect information, to the extent practicable, directly from the individual to whom it relates;
(iii) Inform each individual asked to supply information, on the form used to collect the information or on a separate form that can be retained by the individual of—
(A) The authority (whether granted by statute, or by executive order of the President) which authorizes the solicitation of the information and whether disclosure of such information is mandatory or voluntary;
(B) The principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used;
(C) The routine uses which may be made of the information, as published pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(D); and
(D) The effects on the individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information;
(iv) Not collect, maintain, use or disseminate information concerning an individual's religious or political beliefs or activities or membership in associations or organizations, unless expressly authorized by statute or by the
individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity;
(v) Advise their supervisors of the existence or contemplated development of any record system which is capable of retrieving information about individuals by individual identifier;
(vi) Assure that no records maintained in a CFPB system of records are disseminated without the permission of the individual about whom the record pertains, except when authorized by 5 U.S.C. 552a(b);
(vii) Maintain and process information concerning individuals with care in order to ensure that no inadvertent disclosure of the information is made either within or without the CFPB;
(viii) Prior to disseminating any record about an individual to any person other than an agency, unless the dissemination is made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(2), make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely, and relevant for agency purposes; and
(ix) Assure that an accounting is kept in the prescribed form, of all dissemination of personal information outside the CFPB, whether made orally or in writing, unless disclosed under 5 U.S.C. 552 or subpart B of this part.
(3) The head of each office of the CFPB shall, at least annually, review the record systems subject to their supervision to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 and the regulations in this subpart.
§ 1070.62
Preservation of records.
The CFPB will preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this part, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized by title 44 of the United States Code or the National Archives and Records Administration's General Records Schedule 14. Records will not be disposed of or destroyed while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, proceeding, or lawsuit.
§ 1070.63
Use and collection of Social Security numbers.
The CFPB will ensure that employees authorized to collect information are aware:
(a) That individuals may not be denied any right, benefit, or privilege as a result of refusing to provide their Social Security numbers, unless the collection is authorized either by a statute or by a regulation issued prior to 1975; and
(b) That individuals requested to provide their Social Security numbers must be informed of:
(1) Whether providing Social Security numbers is mandatory or voluntary;
(2) Any statutory or regulatory authority that authorizes the collection of Social Security numbers; and
(3) The uses that will be made of the numbers.
Pt. 1071

# PART 1071—RULE IMPLEMENTING EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1071.100
Purpose.
1071.101
When the Act applies.
1071.102
Proceedings covered.
1071.103
Eligibility of applicants.
1071.104
Standards for awards.
1071.105
Allowable fees and other expenses.
1071.106
Delegations of authority.

# Subpart B—Information Required from Applicants
1071.200
Contents of application.
1071.201
Net worth exhibit.
1071.202
Documentation of fees and expenses.
1071.203
When an application may be filed.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
1071.300
Filing and service of documents.
1071.301
Answer to application.
1071.302
Reply.
1071.303
Comments by other parties.
1071.304
Settlement.
1071.305
Further proceedings.
1071.306
Recommended decision.
1071.307
Bureau review.
1071.308
Judicial review.
1071.309
Payment of award.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504.

# Source:
77 FR 39119, June 29, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1071.100
Purpose.
(a)
In general.
The Equal Access to Justice Act (the Act), 5 U.S.C. 504, provides for the award of attorney fees and other expenses to eligible individuals and entities who are parties to certain administrative proceedings (adversary adjudications) before the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the Bureau). An eligible party may receive an award when it prevails over the Bureau, unless the Bureau's position in the proceeding was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. This part describes the parties eligible for awards and the proceedings that are covered. This part also explains how to apply for awards, and the procedures and standards that the Bureau will use in ruling on those applications.
(b)
When an eligible party will receive an award.
An eligible party will receive an award when:
(1) It prevails in the adversary adjudication, unless the Bureau's position in the proceeding was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. Whether or not the position of the Bureau was substantially justified will be determined on the basis of the administrative record as a whole that is made in the adversary proceeding for which fees and other expenses are sought; or
(2) The Bureau's demand is substantially in excess of the decision of the adjudicative officer and is unreasonable when compared with that decision, under all the facts and circumstances of the case, unless the party has committed a willful violation of law or otherwise acted in bad faith, or special circumstances make an award unjust. “Demand” means the express final written demand made by the Bureau prior to initiation of the adversary adjudication, but does not include a recitation by the Bureau of the statutory penalty in the notice of charges or elsewhere when accompanied by an express demand for a lesser amount. The relief requested in the Bureau's notice of charges issued pursuant to 12 CFR 1081.200(b)(3) may constitute the Bureau's demand only where the notice of charges was not preceded by an express final written demand.
§ 1071.101
When the Act applies.
The Act applies to any adversary adjudication pending before the Bureau at any time after July 21, 2011.
§ 1071.102
Proceedings covered.
The Act applies to all adjudicative proceedings under part 1081 as defined in § 1081.103.
§ 1071.103
Eligibility of applicants.
(a) To be eligible for an award of attorney fees and other expenses under the Act, the applicant must be a party to the adversary adjudication for which it seeks an award. The term “party” is defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3). The applicant must show that it meets all conditions of eligibility set out in this subpart.
(b) The types of eligible applicants are as follows:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $2 million;
(2) The sole owner of an unincorporated business who has a net worth of not more than $7 million, including both personal and business interests, and not more than 500 employees;
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees;
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with not more than 500 employees; or
(5) Any other partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization with a net worth of not more than $7 million and not more than 500 employees.
(6) For purposes of receiving an award for fees and expenses for defending against an excessive Bureau demand, any small entity, as that term is defined under 5 U.S.C. 601(6).
(c) For purposes of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the proceeding was initiated.
(d) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered an “individual” rather than a “sole
owner of an unincorporated business” if the issues on which the applicant prevails are related primarily to personal interests rather than to business interests.
(e) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. Part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
(f) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interest of the applicant, or any corporation or entity of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest, will be considered an affiliate of that business for purposes of this part, unless the adjudicative officer determines that such treatment would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of the Act in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In addition, the adjudicative officer may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
(g) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award.
§ 1071.104
Standards for awards.
(a) For a prevailing party:
(1) An eligible prevailing applicant may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred after initiation of the adversary adjudication in connection with the entire adversary adjudication, or on a substantive portion of the adversary adjudication that is sufficiently significant and discrete to merit treatment as a separate unit, unless the position of the Bureau was substantially justified. The burden of proof that an award should not be made to an eligible prevailing applicant because the Bureau's position was substantially justified is on counsel for the Bureau. However, no presumption arises that the Bureau's position was not substantially justified simply because the Bureau did not prevail.
(2) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.
(b) For a party defending against an excessive demand:
(1) An eligible applicant will receive an award for fees and expenses incurred after initiation of the adversary adjudication related to defending against the portion of a Bureau demand that is substantially in excess of the decision of the adjudicative officer and is unreasonable when compared with that decision under all the facts and circumstances of the case.
(2) An award will be denied if the applicant has committed a willful violation of law or otherwise acted in bad faith or if special circumstances make an award unjust.
§ 1071.105
Allowable fees and other expenses.
(a) Subject to the limitations in paragraph (b) of this section, awards will be based on rates customarily charged, in the locale of the hearing, by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at a reduced rate to the applicant.
(b) No award for the fee of any attorney or agent under this rule may exceed the hourly rate specified in 5 U.S.C. 504(b)(1)(A). No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the reasonable rate at which the Bureau pays witnesses with similar expertise. However an award may also include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.
(c) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent or expert witness, the adjudicative officer shall consider the following:
(1) If the attorney, agent or witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for similar services, or, if
an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;
(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and
(5) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.
(d) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project or similar matter prepared on behalf of a party may be awarded, to the extent that the charge for the services does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of the applicant's case.
(e) An award of fees or expenses under the Act is limited to fees and expenses incurred after initiation of the adversary adjudication and, with respect to excessive demands, the fees and expenses incurred in defending against the excessive portion of the demand.
§ 1071.106
Delegations of authority.
The Director may delegate authority to take final action on matters pertaining to the Equal Access to Justice Act in particular cases.

# Subpart B—Information Required from Applicants
§ 1071.200
Contents of application.
An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act shall contain the following:
(a) Identity of the applicant and the proceeding for which the award is sought;
(b) A showing that the applicant has prevailed; or, if the applicant has not prevailed, a showing that the Bureau's demand was substantially in excess of the decision of the adjudicative officer and was unreasonable when compared with that decision, under the facts and circumstances of that case;
(c) Identification of the Bureau position(s) in the proceeding that the applicant alleges was (were) not substantially justified; or, identification of the Bureau's demand that is alleged to be excessive and unreasonable and an explanation as to why the demand was excessive and unreasonable;
(d) A brief description of the type and purpose of the organization or business (unless the applicant is an individual).
(e) A statement of how the applicant meets the eligibility criteria of § 1071.103;
(f) The amount of fees and expenses incurred after the initiation of the adversary adjudication, or in the case of a claim for defending against an allegedly excessive demand, the amount of fees and expenses incurred after the initiation of the adjudicative proceeding attributable to the allegedly excessive portion of the demand;
(g) Any other matter the applicant wishes the Bureau to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made; and
(h) A written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided is true and correct, accompanied by the signature of the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney.
§ 1071.201
Net worth exhibit.
(a) The application shall also include a detailed exhibit showing that the applicant's net worth did not exceed $2 million (if an individual) or $7 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates) when the proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this subpart. The adjudicative officer may require an applicant to file additional information to determine its eligibility for an award.
(b) However, an applicant may omit this exhibit if:
(1) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the
basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section;
(2) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a));
(3) In the case of an application for an award related to an allegedly excessive demand by the Bureau, it demonstrates that it is a small entity as that term is defined by 5 U.S.C. 601(6).
(c) Ordinarily, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the proceeding. However, an applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the exhibit and believes there are legal grounds for withholding it from disclosure may submit that exhibit directly to the adjudicative officer in a sealed envelope labeled “Confidential Financial Information,” accompanied by a motion to withhold the information from public disclosure. The motion shall describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why it falls within one or more of the specific exemptions from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 522(b)(1) through (9), why public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the applicant, and why disclosure is not required in the public interest. The material in question shall be served on Bureau counsel but need not be served on any other party to the proceeding. If the adjudicative officer finds that the information should not be withheld from disclosure, it shall be placed in the public record of the proceeding. Otherwise, any request to inspect or copy the exhibit shall be handled in accordance with the Bureau's established procedures under the Freedom of Information Act, 12 CFR subpart B.
§ 1071.202
Documentation of fees and expenses.
The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses incurred after initiation of the adversary adjudication, including the cost of any study, engineering report, test, or project for which an award is sought. With respect to a claim for fees and expenses involving an excessive demand by the Bureau, the application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses incurred after initiation of the adversary adjudication, including the cost of any study, engineering report, test, or project for which an award is sought attributable to the portion of the demand alleged to be excessive and unreasonable. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The adjudicative officer may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.
§ 1071.203
When an application may be filed.
(a) An application may be filed not later than 30 days after the final disposition of the proceeding to which the application relates.
(b) If review or reconsideration is sought or taken of a decision, proceedings for the award of fees shall be stayed pending final disposition of the underlying controversy.
(c) For purposes of this subpart,
final disposition
means the later of—
(1) The date that the Director's final order issued pursuant to § 1081.405 is final and unappealable, both within the agency and to the courts; or
(2) The date that the Bureau issues any other final resolution of a proceeding, such as a consent agreement, settlement or voluntary dismissal, that is not subject to a petition for reconsideration.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
§ 1071.300
Filing and service of documents.
(a) Any application for an award or other pleading or document related to an application shall be filed and served on all parties to the proceeding in the
same manner as other pleadings in proceedings under part 1081.
(b) In addition, a copy of each application for fees and expenses shall be served on the General Counsel of the Bureau.
§ 1071.301
Answer to application.
(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel representing the Bureau may file an answer to the application. Unless Bureau counsel requests an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of this section, failure to file an answer within the 30-day period may be treated as consent to the award requested.
(b) If Bureau counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days and further extensions may be granted by the adjudicative officer upon joint request by Bureau counsel and the applicant.
(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of Bureau counsel's position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, Bureau counsel shall include with the answer either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 1071.305 of this part.
§ 1071.302
Reply.
Within 15 days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the applicant shall include with the reply either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 1071.305 of this part.
§ 1071.303
Comments by other parties.
Any party to a proceeding other than the applicant and Bureau counsel may file comments on an application within 30 days after it is served or on an answer within 15 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in proceedings on the application unless the adjudicative officer determines that the public interest requires such participation in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.
§ 1071.304
Settlement.
The applicant and Bureau counsel may agree on a proposed settlement of the award before final action on the application, either in connection with a settlement of the underlying proceeding or after the underlying proceeding has been concluded, in accordance with the Bureau's standard settlement procedures. If a prevailing party and Bureau counsel agree on a proposed settlement of an award before an application has been filed, the application shall be filed with the proposed settlement. If a proposed settlement of an underlying proceeding provides that each side shall bear its own expenses and the settlement is accepted, no application may be filed.
§ 1071.305
Further proceedings.
(a) Ordinarily, the determination of an award will be made on the basis of the written record. However, on request of either the applicant or Bureau counsel, or on his or her own initiative, the adjudicative officer may order further proceedings, such as an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions or an evidentiary hearing. Such further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application, and shall be conducted as promptly as possible.
(b) A request that the adjudicative officer order further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the information sought or the disputed issues and shall explain why the additional proceedings are necessary to resolve the issues.
§ 1071.306
Recommended decision.
The adjudicative officer shall issue a recommended decision on the application within 60 days after the time for filing a reply, or where further proceedings are held, within 60 days after completion of such proceedings.
(a) For a decision involving a prevailing party: The decision shall include written findings and conclusions
on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall include, if at issue, findings on whether the agency's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust.
(b) For a decision involving an allegedly excessive Bureau demand: The decision on the application shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and an explanation of the reasons why the Bureau's demand was or was not determined to be substantially in excess of the underlying decision of the adjudicative officer and was or was not unreasonable when compared with that decision. That determination shall be based upon all the facts and circumstances of the case. The decision on the application shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the applicant has committed a willful violation of law or otherwise acted in bad faith, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust.
§ 1071.307
Bureau review.
Either the applicant or Bureau counsel may seek review of the recommended decision on the fee application by filing a notice of appeal under § 1081.402(a), or the Director may decide to review the decision on his or her own initiative, in accordance with § 1081.402(b). If neither the applicant nor Bureau counsel seeks review and the Director does not take review on his or her own initiative, the Director will adopt the recommended decision on the application as the final decision of the Bureau within 30 days of the issuance of the recommended decision. Whether to review a decision is a matter within the discretion of the Director. If review is taken, the Director will issue a final decision on the application or remand the application to the adjudicative officer for further proceedings.
§ 1071.308
Judicial review.
Judicial review of final Bureau decisions on awards may be sought as provided in 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).
§ 1071.309
Payment of award.
An applicant seeking payment of an award shall submit to the Bureau a copy of the Bureau's final decision granting the award, accompanied by a statement that the applicant will not seek review of the decision in the United States courts. An applicant shall be paid the amount awarded within 60 days of entry of the final decision unless judicial review of the award or of the underlying decision of the adversary adjudication has been sought by the applicant or any other party to the proceeding.
Pt. 1072

# PART 1072—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION
Sec.
1072.101
Purpose.
1072.102
Application.
1072.103
Definitions.
1072.104
Review of compliance.
1072.105
Notice.
1072.106
General prohibitions against discrimination.
1072.107
Employment.
1072.108
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
1072.109
Program accessibility: Existing facilites.
1072.110
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
1072.111
Communications.
1072.112
Compliance procedures.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794; 29 U.S.C. 794d.

# Source:
77 FR 46609, August 6, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1072.101
Purpose.
(a) This part implements section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, Sec. 119 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2982), the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-506, 100 Stat.
1810), the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (Pub. L. 105-220, 112 Stat. 936), and the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-325, 122 Stat. 3553), to prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
(b) This part is also intended to implement section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended to ensure that employees and members of the public with disabilities have access to, and are able to use, electronic and information technology (EIT) to the same extent as individuals without disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the department or the Bureau. Specifically, this part clarifies that individuals with disabilities may utilize the complaint procedures established in section 504 to enforce rights guaranteed under section 508.
§ 1072.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs, activities, and electronic and information technology developed, procured, maintained, used, or conducted by the Bureau.
§ 1072.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the Bureau. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunications devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, Computer-aided real-time transcription (CART), captioning, note takers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
Complete complaint
means a written statement or a complaint in audio, Braille, electronic, and/or video format, that contains the complainant's name and address, and describes the Bureau's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the Bureau of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504 or section 508. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints in audio, Braille, electronic, and/or video formats shall contain an affirmative identity statement of the individual, which for this purpose shall be considered to be functionally equivalent to a complaint's signature. Complaints filed on behalf of classes of individuals with disabilities shall also identify (where possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Electronic and information technology
means information technology and any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the creation, conversion, or duplication of data or information. The term includes, but is not limited to, telecommunications products (such as telephones), information kiosks and transaction machines, world-wide web sites, multimedia, and office equipment such as copiers and fax machines. The term does not include any equipment that contains embedded information technology that is used as an integral part of the product, but the principal function of which is not the acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. For example, HVAC (heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) equipment such as thermostats or temperature control devices, and medical equipment where information technology is integral to its operation are not electronic and information technology.
Facility
means all or any portion of a building, structure, equipment, road, walk, parking lot, rolling stock or other conveyance, or other real or personal property.
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more of the individual's major life activities.
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(1) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the Bureau as constituting such a limitation;
(2) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(3) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the Bureau as having such an impairment.
Individual with a disability
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the individual's major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase:
Major life activities
includes without limitation—
(1) Caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, sitting, reaching, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, communicating, interacting with others, and working.
(2) The operation of major bodily functions of the immune system, special sense organs and skin, normal cell growth, and digestive genitourinary, bowel, bladder, neurological, brain, respiratory, circulatory, cardiovascular, endocrine, hemic, lymphatic, musculoskeletal, and reproductive functions. The operation of a major bodily function includes the operation of an individual organ within a body system.
(3) In determining other examples of major life activities, the Bureau will follow the guidance provided by EEOC in its 2011 regulations interpreting the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008.
Physical or mental impairment
includes without limitation:
(1) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive, digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine.
(2) Any mental or psychological disorder such as an intellectual disability, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities.
(3) Diseases and conditions such as orthopedic, visual, speech and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, intellectual disability, emotional illness, drug addiction and alcoholism.
Program or Activity
means any activity of the Bureau permitted or required by its enabling statutes, including but not limited to any proceeding, investigation, hearing, or meeting.
Qualified individual with a disability
means:
(1) In reference to individuals other than employees of the Bureau—
(i) With respect to any Bureau program or activity under which an individual is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with a disability who, with or without reasonable accommodations, meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in the program or activity, and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature; or
(ii) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with a disability who, with or without reasonable modification to rules, policies, or practices that do not change the fundamental nature of the activity, or the provision of auxiliary aids, meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; or
(2) In reference to individuals employed by the Bureau, the definition of that term for purposes of employment contained in 29 CFR 1630.2(m), which is made applicable to this part by § 1072.101.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended. As used in this part, § 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Section 508
means section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended.
§ 1072.104
Review of compliance.
(a) The Bureau shall, within two years of the promulgation of this regulation, review its current policies and practices in view of advances in relevant technology and achievability. Based on this review, the Bureau shall modify its practices and procedures to ensure that the Bureau's programs and activities are fully accessible.
(b) The Bureau shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with disabilities or organizations representing individuals with disabilities, to participate in the review process.
(c) The Bureau shall maintain on file and make available for public inspection until three years following the completion of the compliance review—
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 1072.105
Notice.
The Bureau shall make available to all Bureau employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the Bureau in a manner that apprises them of the protections against discrimination provided by § 504 and this regulation.
§ 1072.106
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with a disability in the United States, shall, on the basis of disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Bureau.
(b)
Discriminatory actions prohibited.
(1) The Bureau, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of disability—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with a disability the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with a disability an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not substantially equivalent to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide different or separate aid, benefits or services to individuals with disabilities or to any class of individuals with disabilities than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with disabilities with aid, benefits or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(iv) Deny a qualified individual with a disability the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards.
(2) For purposes of this part, aids, benefits, and services, to be equally effective, are not required to produce the identical result or level of achievement for individuals with disabilities and for persons who are not so identified, but must afford individuals with disabilities a reasonable opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement in the most integrated setting appropriate to the individual's needs.
(3) Even if the Bureau is permitted, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, to operate a separate or different program for individuals with disabilities or for any class of individuals with disabilities, to the extent reasonably feasible, the Bureau must permit any qualified individual with a disability who wishes to participate in the program that is not separate or different to do so.
(4) The Bureau may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with disabilities to unlawful discrimination on the basis of disability; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with disabilities.
(5) The Bureau may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with disabilities from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to unlawful discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Bureau; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with disabilities.
(6) The Bureau, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with disabilities to unlawful discrimination on the basis of disability.
(7) The Bureau may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with disabilities to unlawful discrimination on the basis of disability, nor may the Bureau establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with disabilities to unlawful discrimination on the basis of disability. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the Bureau are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(8) The Bureau shall make reasonable modifications in policies, practices, or procedures when the modifications are necessary to avoid discrimination on the basis of disability, unless the Bureau can demonstrate that making the modifications would fundamentally alter the nature of the program, service, or activity.
(c) The exclusion of persons who have not self-identified as having disabilities from the benefits of a program limited by federal statute or Executive order to individuals with disabilities or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with disabilities from a program limited by federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with disabilities is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The Bureau shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with disabilities.
§ 1072.107
Employment.
No qualified individual with disability shall, on the basis of disability, be subjected to unlawful discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the Bureau. The definitions, requirements and procedures of § 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 791, as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR parts 1614 and 1630, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§ 1072.108
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1072.109 no qualified individual with a disability shall, because the Bureau's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with disabilities, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Bureau .
§ 1072.109
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The Bureau shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. This paragraph does not require the Bureau
(1) To make structural alterations in each of its existing facilities in order to make them accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section; or
(2) To take any action that would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Bureau shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless to the extent reasonably feasible ensure that individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods.
The Bureau may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities,
use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. The Bureau, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the Bureau shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with disabilities in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The Bureau shall comply with the obligations established under this section within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this part except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made within three years of the effective date of this part, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
§ 1072.110
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the Bureau shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as implemented in 41 CFR 101-19.600 through 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§ 1072.111
Communications.
(a) The Bureau shall take appropriate steps to effectively communicate with applicants, participants, personnel of other federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The Bureau shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with a disability an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the Bureau.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the Bureau shall give consideration to any reasonable request of the individual with a disability.
(ii) The Bureau need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature to applicants or participants in programs.
(2) Where the Bureau communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by
telephone, the Bureau shall use a telecommunication device for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The Bureau shall make available to interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The Bureau shall post notices at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to an accessible facility, or to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the Bureau to take any action that would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens.
§ 1072.112
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of disability in programs and activities conducted by the Bureau and denial of access to electronic and information technology.
(b) The Bureau shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) All other complaints alleging violations of section 504 or section 508 may be sent to Labor and Employee Relations, Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20052. The Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section.
(d)
Complaint-filing procedures.
(1) Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by himself or herself or by his or her authorized representative file a complaint. Any person who believes that any specific class of persons has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class or the authorized representative of a member of that class may file a class complaint.
(2) The Bureau shall accept and investigate each timely filed, complete complaint over which it has jurisdiction.
(3) A complete complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. A complaint submitted to the Bureau via first-class mail will be deemed to have been filed when postmarked. A complaint submitted to the Bureau via any other means of delivery will be deemed to have been filed when received by the Bureau. The Bureau may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the Bureau receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The Bureau shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.
(g)(1) Within 180 days of the receipt of a timely filed, complete complaint over which it has jurisdiction, the Bureau shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing:
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(ii) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(iii) A notice of the right to appeal.
(2) Bureau employees are required to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are required to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours.
(3) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and made part of the complaint file, with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant. The written agreement shall describe the subject matter of the complaint and any corrective action to which the parties have agreed.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 30 days of receipt from the Bureau of the letter required by § 1072.112(g). The Bureau may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Chief Human Capital Officer, who will issue the final agency decision which may include appropriate corrective action to be taken by the Bureau.
(j) The Bureau shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the timely appeal. If the Bureau determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 60 days from the date it received the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended for an individual case when the Chief Human Capital Officer determines there is good cause, based on the particular circumstances of that case, for the extension.
(l) The Bureau may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other federal agencies or may contract with a nongovernment investigator to perform the investigation, but the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another entity.
Pt. 1073

# PART 1073—PROCEDURES FOR BUREAU DEBT COLLECTION

# Subpart A—Scope, Purpose, and Definitions
Sec.
1073.101
Scope.
1073.102
Purpose.
1073.103
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Administrative Offset
1073.201
Applicability and scope.
1073.202
Collection.
1073.203
Omission of procedures.
1073.204
Debtor's rights.
1073.205
No requirement for duplicate notice.
1073.206
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
1073.207
Termination or suspension of collection action.
1073.208
Refunds.
1073.209
Requests for offset to other Federal agencies.
1073.210
Requests for offset from other Federal agencies.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
1073.301
Scope.
1073.302
Notice requirement where CFPB is creditor agency.
1073.303
Procedures to request a hearing.
1073.304
Failure to timely submit request for a hearing.
1073.305
Procedures for hearing.
1073.306
Salary offset process.
1073.307
Voluntary repayment agreements as alternative to salary offset where the CFPB is the creditor agency.
1073.308
Special review of repayment agreement or salary offset due to changed circumstances.
1073.309
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
1073.310
Refunds.
1073.311
Non-waiver of rights by payment.
1073.312
Exception to procedures.

# Subpart D—Administrative Wage Garnishment
1073.401
Administrative wage garnishment.

# Subpart E—Tax Refund Offset
1073.501
Tax refund offset.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 5 U.S.C. 5514; 31 U.S.C. 3711,
et seq.

# Source:
78 FR 41678, July 11, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Scope, Purpose, and Definitions
§ 1073.101
Scope.
This part establishes Bureau procedures for the collection of certain debts owed to the United States.
(a) This part applies to collections by the Bureau from:
(1) Federal employees who are indebted to the Bureau;
(2) Employees of the Bureau who are indebted to other agencies; and
(3) Other persons, organizations, or entities that are indebted to the United States, except those excluded in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) This part does not apply:
(1) To debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code (Title 26, U.S. Code), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), or the tariff laws of the United States;
(2) To a situation to which the Contract Disputes Act (41 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.
) applies; or
(3) To debts arising out of acquisition contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation. These debts shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled in accordance with that regulation (see 48 CFR part 32).
(4) In any other case where collection of a debt is exclusively provided for or prohibited by another statute or applicable regulation.
(c) In addition to the procedures set forth in this part, the Bureau shall also follow the procedures set forth in 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, for the collection by offset from indebted government employees, and in 31 CFR part 285 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) (31 CFR chapter IX and parts 900 through 904) for the collection of debts owed to the United States.
(d) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions, where appropriate, under standards implementing the Debt Collection Improvement Act (DCIA) (31 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.
), the FCCS, or any other applicable law.
§ 1073.102
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement Federal statutes and regulatory
standards authorizing the Bureau to collect debts owed to the United States. This part is intended to be consistent with the following Federal statutes and regulations:
(1) DCIA at 31 U.S.C. 3711 (collection and compromise of claims), section 3716 (administrative offset), section 3717 (interest and penalty on claims), and section 3718 (contracts for collection services); 31 CFR part 285 (debt collection authorities under the DCIA)
(2) 31 CFR chapter IX and parts 900 through 904 (FCCS);
(3) 5 U.S.C. 5514, 5 CFR part 550, subpart K (salary offset);
(4) 5 U.S.C. 5584 (waiver of claims for overpayment);
(5) 31 U.S.C. 3720D, 31 CFR 285.11 (administrative wage garnishment); and
(6) 26 U.S.C. 6402(d), 31 U.S.C. 3720A, and 31 CFR 285.2 (tax refund offset).
§ 1073.103
Definitions.
Except where the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following definitions shall apply to this part.
Administrative offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt.
Agency
means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal government, including government corporations.
Bureau
or
CFPB
means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
Centralized administrative offset
means an offset initiated by referral to the Secretary of the Treasury, or where applicable a debt collection center designated by the Department of the Treasury, by a creditor agency of a past due debt for the purpose of collection under the Treasury's centralized offset program.
Certification
means a written statement transmitted from a creditor agency to a paying agency for purposes of administrative or salary offset, to the Financial Management Service (FMS) for offset or to the Secretary of the Treasury for centralized administrative offset. The certification confirms the existence and amount of the debt and verifies that the creditor agency has afforded the debtor the required procedural protections. Where the debtor requests a hearing on a claimed debt, the decision by a hearing official or administrative law judge constitutes a certification.
Compromise
means the settlement or forgiveness of a debt under 31 U.S.C. 3711, in accordance with standards set forth in the FCCS and applicable Federal law.
Creditor agency
means an agency of the Federal Government to which the debt is owed, or a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency to collect a debt. An agency may be both the creditor agency and the paying agency.
Debt
or
claim
means an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal entity. For purposes of this part, a debt or claim owed to the Bureau constitutes a debt or claim owed to the United States.
Debt collection center
means the Department of the Treasury or other government agency or division designated by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to collect debts on behalf of creditor agencies in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt or a claim. The term “person” includes any individual, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection or the Director's designee.
Disposable pay
means that part of current adjusted basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, and, in the case of an employee not entitled to adjusted basic pay, other authorized pay, remaining for each pay period after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld.
Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS)
means standards published at 31 CFR Parts 900 through 904.
Financial Management Service (FMS)
is a Bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Garnishment
means the process of withholding amounts from the disposable pay of a person employed outside
the Federal Government, and the paying of those amounts to a creditor in satisfaction of a withholding order.
Non-centralized administrative offset
means offsets that an agency conducts, at the agency's discretion, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payment to the debtor.
Notice of Intent to Offset
or
Notice of Intent
means a written notice from a creditor agency to an employee, organization, entity, or restitution debtor that claims a debt and informs the debtor that the creditor agency intends to collect the debt by administrative or salary offset. The notice also informs the debtor of certain procedural rights with respect to the claimed debt and respective offset procedure.
Paying agency
means the agency of the Federal Government that withholds funds payable to a person who owes a debt to an agency of the Federal Government. The term “person” includes any individual, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. An agency may be both the creditor agency and the paying agency.
Recoupment
means a special method of adjusting debts arising under the same transaction or occurrence.
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of a Federal employee without his or her consent.
Withholding order
means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by an agency, or judicial or administrative body.

# Subpart B—Administrative Offset
§ 1073.201
Applicability and scope.
(a)
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart apply to the collection of debts owed to the United States arising out of the activities of, or referred to, the Bureau. This subpart is intended to be consistent with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR chapter IX and parts 900 through 904) on administrative offset issued by the Department of Treasury and the Department of Justice.
(b)
Centralized administrative offset.
(1) The Director will refer any eligible debt over 180 days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury or a designated debt collection center for collection by centralized administrative offset. The Director may also refer any eligible debt less than 180 days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury for offset.
(2) At least 60 days prior to referring a debt to the Department of the Treasury in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Director will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 1073.204 of this subpart.
(c)
Non-centralized administrative offset.
(1) When centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, the Director may collect past-due, legally enforceable debts through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, the Director may offset a payment internally or make an offset request directly to a paying agency.
(2) At least 30 days prior to offsetting a payment internally or requesting a paying agency to offset a payment in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Director will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 1073.204 of this subpart.
§ 1073.202
Collection.
(a) The Director may collect a claim from a person by administrative offset of monies payable by the Government only after:
(1) Providing the debtor with the procedures of this subpart; and
(2) Providing the paying agency with written certification that the debtor owes the debt in the amount stated and that the Bureau, as creditor agency, has complied with this part.
(b) The Director will initiate collection by administrative offset of only those debts for which that remedy is permissible under 31 CFR 901.3(a).
(c) Unless otherwise provided, debts or payments not subject to administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 may be collected by administrative offset under common law, or any other applicable statutory authority.
§ 1073.203
Omission of procedures.
The Bureau shall not be required to follow the procedures described in § 1073.204 where:
(a) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;
(b) The debt arises under a contract as set forth in
Cecile Industries, Inc.
v.
Cheney,
995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993); or
(c) In the case of non-centralized administrative offsets, the Bureau first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity to review. When prior notice and an opportunity to review are omitted, the Director shall give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and shall promptly refund any money ultimately found not to be due to the U.S. Government.
§ 1073.204
Debtor's rights.
(a)
Debtor's rights prior to collection or referral.
Prior to collecting any claim by administrative offset or referring such claim to another agency for collection through administrative offset, the Director shall provide the debtor with the following:
(1) A Notice of Intent to Offset, which shall include written notice of the type and amount of the debt, the intention of the Director to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716;
(2) An opportunity to inspect and copy Bureau records related to the debt, unless such records are exempt from disclosure;
(3) An opportunity for review within the Bureau of the determination of indebtedness; and
(4) An opportunity to enter into a written agreement to repay the debt.
(b)
Opportunity for review.
(1) Any request by the debtor for such review shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the Bureau within 30 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Intent to Offset. The Director may waive the time limit for requesting review for good cause shown by the debtor;
(2) Upon receipt of a request for review by the debtor, the Director shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the Director determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone (e.g., when the determination turns on an issue of credibility or veracity). Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although all significant matters discussed at the hearing shall be documented.
(3) In cases where an oral hearing is not required by this section, the Bureau shall make its determination based on a documentary hearing consisting of a review of the written record.
§ 1073.205
No requirement for duplicate notice.
Where the Director previously has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt, the Director is not required to duplicate such notice and review opportunities prior to initiating administrative offset.
§ 1073.206
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
(a) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, the Director shall assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts owed to the United States. Interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be assessed in accordance with 31 CFR 901.9.
(b) The Director shall waive collection of interest on a debt or any portion of the debt which is paid in full within 30 days after the date on which the interest began to accrue.
(c) The Director may waive interest accrued during a period a disputed debt is under investigation or review by the Bureau,
i.e.,
from the date the Bureau receives a request for review until the date the Bureau issues a final agency decision. The Director may only grant this waiver for good cause shown by the debtor. This waiver must be requested by the debtor before the expiration of the 30-day waiver period described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The Director may at any time waive collection of interest, penalties, or administrative costs if he or she
finds that one or more of the following conditions exists:
(1) The Debtor is unable to pay any significant sum toward the debt within a reasonable period of time;
(2) Collection of interest, penalties, or administrative costs will jeopardize collection of the principal of the debt;
(3) The Bureau is unable to enforce collection in full within a reasonable period of time through collection proceedings; or
(4) Collection is against equity and good conscience or is not in the best interest of the United States.
(e) The Director is authorized to assess interest, penalties, administrative costs, or other related charges on debts that are not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717 to the extent authorized under the common law or other applicable statutory authority.
§ 1073.207
Termination or suspension of collection action.
The Director may suspend or terminate collection action on a claim not in excess of $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, after deducting the amount of partial payments or collections, if any. Any such termination or suspension shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3711 under the procedures established in 31 CFR part 903.
§ 1073.208
Refunds.
Amounts recovered by administrative offset but later found not to be owed to the Government shall be promptly refunded. Unless required by law or contract, such refunds shall not bear interest.
§ 1073.209
Request for offset to other Federal agencies.
The Director may request that a debt owed to the Bureau be administratively offset against funds due and payable to a debtor by another Federal agency. In requesting administrative offset, the Bureau, as the creditor agency, will provide written certification to the Federal agency holding funds payable to the debtor, stating:
(a) That the debtor owes the debt;
(b) The amount and basis of the debt; and
(c) That the Bureau has fully complied with the requirements of its own administrative offset regulations and the applicable provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716.
§ 1073.210
Request for offset from other Federal agencies.
Any Federal agency may request that funds due and payable to its debtor by the Bureau be administratively offset by the Bureau in order to collect a debt owed to such agency by the debtor. The Director shall initiate the requested offset only upon:
(a) Receipt of written certification from the creditor agency stating:
(1) That the debtor owes the debt;
(2) The amount and basis of the debt; and
(3) That the creditor agency has fully complied with its own administrative offset regulations and with the applicable provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716; and
(b) A determination that collection by offset against funds payable by the Bureau would be in the best interest of the United States and that such offset would not be contrary to law.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
§ 1073.301
Scope.
(a) These salary offset regulations should be read in conjunction with 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and apply to the collection of debts owed by employees of the Bureau or other Federal agencies.
(b) These salary offset procedures do not apply:
(1) Where an employee consents to the recovery of a debt from his current pay account;
(2) To debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code (Title 26, U.S. Code), the tariff laws of the United States, or to any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.
(c) These procedures do not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver of an erroneous payment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, or from questioning the amount or validity of a debt, in the manner
specified by law or these agency regulations. This subpart also does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of the collection of a debt under any other applicable statutory authority.
(d) When possible, salary offset through centralized administrative offset procedures should be attempted before seeking salary offset from a paying agency different than the creditor agency.
§ 1073.302
Notice requirement where CFPB is creditor agency.
Where the Bureau seeks salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514 as the creditor agency, the Director shall first provide the employee with a written Notice of Intent to Offset at least 30 calendar days before salary offset is to commence. The Notice of Intent to Offset shall include the following information and statements:
(a) That the Director has determined that a debt is owed to the Bureau, and the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(b) That the Director intends to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account;
(c) The frequency and amount of the intended deduction, stated as a fixed dollar amount or as a percentage of disposable pay, not to exceed 15 percent of disposable pay;
(d) That the Director intends to continue the deductions until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved;
(e) The opportunity (under terms agreeable to the Director) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset. The agreement must be in writing, signed by both the employee and the Director, and documented in the Bureau's files;
(f) The Bureau's policy concerning interest, penalties, and administrative costs, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the FCCS or these regulations;
(g) That the employee has the right to inspect and copy Bureau records not exempt from disclosure that relate to the debt or, if the employee or his or her representative cannot personally inspect the records, to request and receive a copy of such records;
(1) Such requests must be made in writing, and identify by name and address the designated individual to whom the request should be sent.
(2) Upon receipt of such a request, the designated official shall notify the employee of the time and location where the records may be inspected and copied;
(h) That the employee has a right to a hearing regarding the existence and amount of the debt claimed or the salary offset schedule proposed by the Director, provided that the employee files a request for such a hearing with the Bureau in accordance with § 1073.303. Such a hearing will be conducted by an impartial official who is an administrative law judge or who is an other hearing official not under the supervision or control of the Director;
(i) The procedure and deadline for requesting a hearing, including the name, address, and telephone number of the designated individual to whom a request for hearing must be sent;
(j) That a request for hearing must be received by the Bureau within 15 calendar days following receipt of the Notice of Intent, and that filing of a request for hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(k) That the Director will initiate salary offset procedures not less than 30 days from the date of the employee's receipt of the Notice of Intent to Offset, unless the employee files a timely request for a hearing;
(l) That if a hearing is held, the administrative law judge or other hearing official will issue a decision on the hearing at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the request for the hearing, unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(m) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to:
(1) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under 5 U.S.C. chapter 75, 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(2) Penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729 through 3731, or under any other applicable statutory authority; or
(3) Criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 or under any other applicable statutory authority;
(n) That the employee also has the right to request waiver of overpayment pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5584, and may exercise any other rights and remedies available under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made; and
(o) That amounts paid on or deducted from the debt which are later waived or found not to be owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee, unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary.
§ 1073.303
Procedures to request a hearing.
(a) To request a hearing, an employee must send a written request to the designated official indicated in the Notice of Intent stating why the employee believes the determination concerning the existence or amount of debt is in error. The request must be received by the Bureau within 15 calendar days following the employee's receipt of the Notice of Intent.
(b) The request must be signed by the employee and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses, if any, which the employee believes support his or her position. The request for hearing must state whether the employee is requesting an oral or documentary hearing. If an oral hearing is requested, the request shall explain why the matter cannot be resolved by a review of documentary evidence alone.
§ 1073.304
Failure to timely submit request for a hearing.
If the Bureau does not receive an employee's request for hearing within the 15-day period set forth in § 1073.303, the employee shall not be entitled to a hearing, and salary offset may be initiated. However, the Bureau may accept an untimely request for hearing if the employee can show that the delay was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice of the time limit (unless otherwise aware of it).
§ 1073.305
Procedures for hearing.
(a)
Obtaining the services of a hearing official.
The Director must obtain the services of an impartial hearing official who is an administrative law judge or who is an other official not under the supervision or control of the Director. The Director shall designate an administrative law judge or contact an agent of another agency designated in appendix A to 5 CFR part 581 to arrange for a hearing official.
(b)
Notice and format of hearing
—(1)
Notice.
The hearing official shall determine whether the hearing shall be oral or documentary and shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing. If the hearing will be oral, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing, which must be held within 30 calendar days after the request is received, unless the employee requests that the hearing be delayed. If the hearing will be documentary, the employee shall be notified to submit evidence and written arguments in support of his or her case to the hearing official within 30 calendar days.
(2)
Oral hearing.
The hearing official may grant a request for an oral hearing if he or she determines that the issues raised by the employee cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (e.g., where credibility or veracity is at issue). Witnesses who testify in oral hearings shall do so under written or recorded oath or affirmation. An oral hearing is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing. Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:
(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official in which the employee and Bureau representative are given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;
(ii) Informal meetings in which the hearing official interviews the employee; or
(iii) Formal written submissions with an opportunity for oral presentation.
(3)
Documentary hearing.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make the determination based upon a
review of the available written record, including any documentation submitted by the employee in support of his or her position.
(4)
Record.
The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing conducted under this section.
(c)
Rescheduling of the hearing date.
The hearing official shall reschedule a hearing if requested to do so by both parties, who shall be given reasonable notice of the time and place of this new hearing.
(d)
Failure to appear or submit documentary evidence.
In the absence of good cause shown, an employee who fails to appear at an oral hearing, or fails to submit documentary evidence for a documentary hearing, will have waived the right to a hearing. Furthermore, the employee will have been deemed to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the Notice of Intent. If the representative of the creditor agency fails to appear without good cause shown, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and issue a decision based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentation submitted by both parties.
(e)
Date of decision.
The hearing official shall issue a written decision based upon the evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 calendar days after the date on which the request for hearing was received by the Bureau, unless the hearing was delayed at the request of the employee. In the event of such a delay, the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed. The decision of the hearing official shall be final.
(f)
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(1) The facts purported to evidence the nature and origin of the proposed debt;
(2) The hearing official's analysis, findings and conclusions, in light of the hearing, as to the employee's and/or Bureau's grounds, the amount and validity of the alleged debt and, where applicable, the repayment schedule.
§ 1073.306
Salary offset process.
(a)
Method and source of deductions.
Salary offsets under this subpart shall be deducted from current disposable pay, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Determination of disposable pay.
The Bureau's Office of the Chief Financial Officer will consult with the Bureau's Office of Human Capital to determine the amount of a Bureau employee's disposable pay and will implement the salary offset. If the debtor is not employed by the Bureau, the agency employing the debtor will determine the amount of the employee's disposable pay and will implement the salary offset.
(c)
When salary offset may begin.
Deductions shall begin within three official pay periods following, as applicable, the initiation of salary offset without a hearing under § 1073.304, the decision of the hearing official under § 1073.305, or receipt of the creditor agency's request for offset where the Bureau is not the creditor agency.
(d)
Amount of salary offset.
The amount to be offset from each salary payment will be up to 15 percent of a debtor's disposable pay, as follows:
(1) If the amount of the debt is equal to or less than 15 percent of the disposable pay, such debt generally will be collected in one lump sum payment;
(2) If the employee is financially unable to pay in one lump sum or the amount of the debt exceeds 15 percent of disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, collection will be made in installments. Installment deductions will be made over a period of no greater than the anticipated period of employment, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. Installment deductions must ordinarily bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. An installment deduction will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount. The creditor agency may determine that smaller deductions are appropriate based on the employee's ability to pay.
(e)
Final salary or other payment.
After the employee has separated either voluntarily or involuntarily from the payment agency, the payment agency may, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716, make a lump sum deduction exceeding 15 percent of disposable pay from any final salary or other payments in order to satisfy a debt. If the debt cannot be liquidated by offset from any final payment due the former employee as of the date of separation, it may be offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 from later payments of any kind due the former employee from the United States, unless prohibited by law.
§ 1073.307
Voluntary repayment agreements as alternative to salary offset where the CFPB is the creditor agency.
(a) In response to a Notice of Intent, an employee may propose to voluntarily repay the debt through scheduled voluntary payments, in lieu of salary offset. An employee who wishes to repay a debt in this manner shall submit to the Bureau a written agreement proposing a repayment schedule. This proposal must be received by the Bureau within 30 calendar days following the date of the Notice of Intent.
(b) The Director shall notify the employee whether the employee's proposed voluntary repayment agreement is acceptable. It is within the discretion of the Director whether to accept or reject the debtor's proposal, or whether to propose to the debtor a modification of the proposed repayment agreement:
(1) If the Director decides that the proposed repayment agreement is unacceptable, he or she shall notify the employee and the employee shall have 30 calendar days from the date he or she received notice of the decision in which to file a request for a hearing on the proposed repayment agreement, as provided in § 1073.303; or
(2) If the Director decides that the proposed repayment agreement is acceptable or the debtor agrees to a modification proposed by the Director, the agreement shall be put in writing and signed by both the employee and the Director.
§ 1073.308
Special review of repayment agreement or salary offset due to changed circumstances.
(a) An employee subject to a voluntary repayment agreement or salary offset payable to the Bureau as creditor agency may request a special review by the Director of the amount of the salary offset or voluntary repayment, based on materially changed circumstances, including, but not limited to, catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability. A request for special review may be made at any time.
(b) In support of a request for special review, the employee shall submit to the Bureau a detailed statement and supporting documents for the employee, his or her spouse, and dependents indicating:
(1) Income from all sources;
(2) Assets;
(3) Liabilities;
(4) Number of dependents;
(5) Monthly expenses for food, housing, clothing, and transportation;
(6) Medical expenses; and
(7) Exceptional expenses, if any.
(c) The employee shall also file an alternative proposed offset or payment schedule and a statement, with supporting documents, showing why the current salary offset or payments result in extreme financial hardship to the employee.
(d) The Director shall evaluate the statement and supporting documents and determine whether the original salary offset or repayment schedule imposes extreme financial hardship on the employee, for example, by preventing the employee from meeting essential subsistence expenses such as food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care. The Director shall notify the employee in writing within 30 calendar days of his or her determination.
(e) If the special review results in a revised salary offset or repayment schedule, the Director shall provide a new certification to the paying agency.
§ 1073.309
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Where the Bureau is the creditor agency, it shall assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs pursuant to the procedures set forth in
§ 1073.206 and in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
§ 1073.310
Refunds.
(a) Where the Bureau is the creditor agency, it shall promptly refund any amount deducted under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 when the debt is waived or otherwise found not to be owing to the United States (unless expressly prohibited by statute or regulation), or when an administrative or judicial order directs the Bureau to refund amounts deducted from the employee's current pay.
(b) Unless required by law or contract, such refunds shall not bear interest.
§ 1073.311
Non-waiver of rights by payment.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any portion of a debt being collected under 5 U.S.C. 5514 shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights which the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law, unless there are statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary.
§ 1073.312
Exception to procedures.
(a) The procedures set forth in this subpart shall not apply to the following:
(1) Any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(2) A routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment; or
(3) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.
(b) In the event of a negative adjustment to pay, as described in subsection (a)(1), the Bureau will provide a clear and concise statement in the employee's earnings statement advising the employee of the previous overpayment at the time the adjustment is made.

# Subpart D—Administrative Wage Garnishment
§ 1073.401
Administrative wage garnishment.
The Director may collect debts from a debtor's wages by means of administrative wage garnishment in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3720D under the procedures established in 31 CFR 285.11.

# Subpart E—Tax Refund Offset
§ 1073.501
Tax refund offset.
The provisions of 26 U.S.C. 6402(d) and 31 U.S.C. 3720A authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to offset a debt owed to the United States Government from the tax refund due a taxpayer. The Director may administer tax refund offsets in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3720A under the procedures established in 31 CFR 285.2.
Pt. 1074

# PART 1074—RULEMAKING AND GUIDANCE

# Subpart A—Procedure for Issuance of Bureau Rules
Sec.
1074.1
Date of issuance of Bureau rules.

# Subpart B—Use of Supervisory Guidance
1074.2
Purpose.
1074.3
Implementation of the Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance.
Appendix A to Part 1074—Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5492(a)(1), 5512(b).

# Source:
77 FR 76354, Dec. 28, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Procedure for Issuance of Bureau Rules
§ 1074.1
Date of issuance of Bureau rules.
A final Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) rule is deemed issued upon the earlier of the following:
(a) When the final rule is posted on the Bureau's Web site; or
(b) When the final rule is published in the
Federal Register.

# Subpart B—Use of Supervisory Guidance

# Source:
86 FR 9268, Feb. 12, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1074.2
Purpose.
The Bureau issues regulations and guidance as part of its supervisory function. This subpart reiterates the distinctions between regulations and guidance, as stated in the Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance (appendix A to this part) (Statement), and provides that the Statement is binding on the Bureau.
§ 1074.3
Implementation of the Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance.
The Statement describes the official policy of the Bureau with respect to the use of supervisory guidance in the supervisory process. The Statement is binding on the Bureau.
Pt. 1074, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1074—Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance

# Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance
The Bureau is issuing this statement to explain the role of supervisory guidance and to describe the Bureau's approach to supervisory guidance.

# Difference Between Supervisory Guidance and Laws or Regulations
Supervisory agencies like the Bureau issue various types of supervisory guidance, including interagency statements, advisories, bulletins, policy statements, questions and answers, or frequently asked questions, to their respective supervised institutions. A law or regulation has the force and effect of law.
1
Unlike a law or regulation, supervisory guidance does not have the force and effect of law, and the Bureau does not take enforcement actions based on supervisory guidance. Rather, supervisory guidance outlines the Bureau's supervisory expectations or priorities and articulates the Bureau's general views regarding appropriate practices for a given subject area. Supervisory guidance often provides examples of practices that the Bureau generally considers consistent with applicable laws and regulations, including those designed to protect consumers. Supervised institutions at times request supervisory guidance, and such guidance is important to provide insight to industry, as well as supervisory staff, in a transparent way that helps to ensure consistency in the supervisory approach.

# Ongoing Efforts To Clarify the Role of Supervisory Guidance
The Bureau is clarifying the following policies and practices related to supervisory guidance:
• The Bureau intends to limit the use of numerical thresholds or other “bright-lines” in describing expectations in supervisory guidance. Where numerical thresholds are used, the Bureau intends to clarify that the thresholds are exemplary only and not suggestive of requirements. The Bureau will continue to use numerical thresholds to tailor, and otherwise make clear, the applicability of supervisory guidance or programs to supervised institutions, and as required by statute.
• Examiners will not criticize (through the issuance of matters requiring attention, matters requiring immediate attention, matters requiring board attention, documents of resolution, and supervisory recommendations) a supervised financial institution for, and the Bureau will not issue an enforcement action on the basis of, a “violation” of or “non-compliance” with supervisory guidance. In some situations, examiners may reference (including in writing) supervisory guidance to provide examples of appropriate consumer protection and risk management practices and other actions for addressing compliance with laws or regulations.
• Supervisory criticisms should continue to be specific as to practices, operations or other matters that could cause consumer harm or could cause violations of laws, regulations, final agency orders, or other legally enforceable conditions.
• The Bureau may decide to seek public comment on supervisory guidance. Seeking public comment on supervisory guidance does not mean that the guidance is intended to be a regulation or have the force and effect of law. The comment process helps the Bureau to improve its understanding of an issue, to gather information on institutions' risk management practices, or to seek ways
to achieve a supervisory objective most effectively and with the least burden on institutions.
• The Bureau will aim to reduce the issuance of multiple supervisory guidance documents on the same topic and will generally limit such multiple issuances going forward.
• The Bureau will continue efforts to make the role of supervisory guidance clear in communications to examiners and to supervised financial institutions and encourages supervised institutions with questions about this statement or any applicable supervisory guidance to discuss the questions with their appropriate agency contact.
[86 FR 9268, Feb. 12, 2021]
Pt. 1075

# PART 1075—CONSUMER FINANCIAL CIVIL PENALTY FUND RULE
Sec.
1075.100
Scope and purpose.
1075.101
Definitions.
1075.102
Fund administrator.
1075.103
Eligible victims.
1075.104
Payments to victims.
1075.105
Allocating funds from the Civil Penalty Fund—in general.
1075.106
Allocating funds to classes of victims.
1075.107
Allocating funds to consumer education and financial literacy programs.
1075.108
Distributing payments to victims.
1075.109
When payments to victims are impracticable.
1075.110
Reporting requirements.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5512(b)(1), 5497(d).

# Source:
78 FR 26501, May 7, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1075.100
Scope and purpose.
Section 1017(d)(1) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1978 (12 U.S.C. 5497(d)) (Dodd-Frank Act) establishes the “Consumer Financial Civil Penalty Fund.” This part describes the conditions under which victims will be eligible for payments from the Consumer Financial Civil Penalty Fund and the amounts of the payments they may receive. This part also establishes procedures and guidelines for allocating funds from the Consumer Financial Civil Penalty Fund to classes of victims and distributing such funds to individual victims, and for allocating funds to consumer education and financial literacy programs. This part also establishes reporting requirements.
§ 1075.101
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Bureau
means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
Bureau enforcement action
means any judicial or administrative action or proceeding in which the Bureau has obtained relief with respect to a violation.
Chief Financial Officer
means the Chief Financial Officer of the Bureau or any Bureau employee to whom that officer has delegated authority to act under this part. In the absence of a Chief Financial Officer of the Bureau, the Director shall designate an alternative official of the Bureau to perform the functions of the Chief Financial Officer under this part.
Civil Penalty Fund
means the Consumer Financial Civil Penalty Fund established by 12 U.S.C. 5497(d).
Civil Penalty Fund Governance Board
means the body, comprised of senior Bureau officials, established by the Director of the Bureau to advise on matters relating to the Civil Penalty Fund.
Class of victims
means a group of similarly situated victims who suffered harm from the same or similar violations for which the Bureau obtained relief in a Bureau enforcement action.
Defendant
means a party in a Bureau enforcement action that is found or alleged to have committed a violation.
Final order
means a consent order or settlement issued by a court or by the Bureau, or an appealable order issued by a court or by the Bureau as to which the time for filing an appeal has expired and no appeals are pending. For purposes of this definition, “appeals” include petitions for reconsideration, review, rehearing, and certiorari.
Person
means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.
Redress
means any amounts—including but not limited to restitution, refunds, and damages—that a final order requires a defendant:
(1) To distribute, credit, or otherwise pay to those harmed by a violation; or
(2) To pay to the Bureau or another intermediary for distribution to those harmed by the violation.
Victim
means a person harmed as a result of a violation.
Violation
means any act or omission that constitutes a violation of law for which the Bureau is authorized to obtain relief pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5565(a).
§ 1075.102
Fund administrator.
(a)
In general.
There is established the position of Civil Penalty Fund Administrator (Fund Administrator). The Fund Administrator will report to the Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, relieve the Fund Administrator of the duties of that position without notice, without cause, and prior to the naming of a successor Fund Administrator.
(b)
Powers and duties.
The Fund Administrator will have the powers and duties assigned to that official in this part.
(c)
Interpretation of these regulations.
(1) On its own initiative or at the Fund Administrator's request, the Civil Penalty Fund Governance Board may advise or direct the Fund Administrator on the administration of the Civil Penalty Fund, including regarding the interpretation of this part and its application to particular facts and circumstances.
(2) The Fund Administrator must follow any written directions that the Civil Penalty Fund Governance Board provides pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Unavailability of the Fund Administrator.
If there is no Fund Administrator or if the Fund Administrator is otherwise unavailable, the Chief Financial Officer will perform the functions and duties of the Fund Administrator.
§ 1075.103
Eligible victims.
A victim is eligible for payment from the Civil Penalty Fund if a final order in a Bureau enforcement action imposed a civil penalty for the violation or violations that harmed the victim.
§ 1075.104
Payments to victims.
(a)
In general.
The Bureau will use funds in the Civil Penalty Fund for payments to compensate eligible victims' uncompensated harm, as described in to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Victims' uncompensated harm.
(1) A victim's uncompensated harm is the victim's compensable harm, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, minus any compensation for that harm that the victim has received or is reasonably expected to receive.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a victim has received or is reasonably expected to receive compensation in the amount of:
(i) Any Civil Penalty Fund payment that the victim has previously received or will receive as a result of a previous allocation from the Civil Penalty Fund to the victim's class;
(ii) Any redress that a final order in a Bureau enforcement action orders to be distributed, credited, or otherwise paid to the victim, and that has not been suspended or waived and that the Chief Financial Officer has not determined to be uncollectible; and
(iii) Any other redress that the Bureau knows that has been distributed, credited, or otherwise paid to the victim, or has been paid to an intermediary for distribution to the victim, to the extent that:
(A) That redress compensates the victim for the same harm as would be compensated by a Civil Penalty Fund payment; and
(B) It is not unduly burdensome, in light of the amounts at stake, to determine the amount of that redress or the extent to which it compensates the victim for the same harm as would be compensated by a Civil Penalty Fund payment.
(3) If the Fund Administrator deems it impracticable to assess the uncompensated harm of individual victims in a class, each individual victim's uncompensated harm will be the victim's share of the aggregate uncompensated harm of the victim's class.
(c)
Victims' compensable harm.
Victims' compensable harm for purposes of this part is as follows:
(1) If a final order in a Bureau enforcement action ordered redress for a class of victims, the compensable harm of each victim in the class is equal to that victim's share of the total redress
ordered, including any amounts that are suspended or waived.
(2) If a final order in a Bureau enforcement action does not order redress for a class of victims, those victims' compensable harm is as follows:
(i) If the Bureau sought redress for a class of victims but a court or administrative tribunal denied that request for redress in the final order, the victims in that class have no compensable harm.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, if the final order in the Bureau enforcement action specifies the amount of the victims' harm, including by prescribing a formula for calculating that harm, each victim's compensable harm is equal to that victim's share of the amount specified.
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, if the final order in the Bureau enforcement action does not specify the amount of the victims' harm, each victim's compensable harm is equal to the victim's out-of-pocket losses that resulted from the violation or violations for which a civil penalty was imposed, except to the extent such losses are impracticable to determine.
§ 1075.105
Allocating funds from the Civil Penalty Fund—in general.
(a)
In general.
The Fund Administrator will allocate Civil Penalty Fund funds specified in paragraph (c) of this section to classes of victims and to consumer education and financial literacy programs as appropriate according to the schedule established in paragraph (b) of this section and the guidelines established in §§ 1075.106 and 1075.107.
(b)
Schedule for making allocations.
(1) Within 60 days of May 7, 2013, the Fund Administrator will establish, and publish on
www.consumerfinance.gov
, a schedule for allocating funds in the Civil Penalty Fund, in accordance with the following:
(i) The schedule will establish six-month periods and identify the start and end dates of those periods. The start date of one period will be the day immediately after the end date of the preceding period.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the first and second periods may be longer or shorter than six months to allow future six-month periods to start and end on dates that better serve administrative efficiency. The first and second periods will constitute “six-month periods” under this part regardless of their actual length.
(iii) The start date of the first period is July 21, 2011.
(2) Within 60 days after the end of a six-month period, the Fund Administrator will allocate available funds in the Civil Penalty Fund in accordance with §§ 1075.106 and 1075.107.
(3) If the Civil Penalty Fund Governance Board determines that the schedule established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section should be changed to better serve administrative efficiency, it may change that schedule by directing the Fund Administrator to publish the new schedule on
www.consumerfinance.gov.
Any new schedule must comply with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. The first period of any new schedule may be shorter or longer than six months. That first period will constitute a “six-month period” under this part regardless of its actual length.
(c)
Funds available for allocation.
The funds available for allocation following the end of a six-month period are those funds that were in the Civil Penalty Fund on the end date of that six-month period, minus:
(1) Any funds already allocated,
(2) Any funds that the Fund Administrator determines are necessary for authorized administrative expenses, and
(3) Any funds collected pursuant to an order that has not yet become a final order.
§ 1075.106
Allocating funds to classes of victims.
(a)
Allocations when there are sufficient funds available to compensate all uncompensated harm.
If the funds available under § 1075.105(c) are sufficient, the Fund Administrator will allocate to each class of victims the amount necessary to compensate fully the uncompensated harm, determined under § 1075.104(b) as of the last day of the
most recently concluded six-month period, of all victims in that class to whom it is practicable to make payments.
(b)
Allocations when there are insufficient funds available to compensate all uncompensated harm.
If the funds available under § 1075.105(c) are not sufficient to make the allocations described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Fund Administrator will allocate the available funds to classes of victims as follows:
(1)
Priority to classes of victims from the most recent six-month period.
The Fund Administrator will first allocate funds to classes of victims from the most recently concluded six-month period, as determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If funds remain after allocating to each class of victims from that six-month period the amount necessary to compensate fully the uncompensated harm, determined under § 1075.104(b) as of the last day of the most recently concluded six-month period, of all victims in that class to whom it is practicable to make payments, the Fund Administrator next will allocate funds to classes of victims from the preceding six-month period, and so forth until no funds remain.
(2)
Assigning classes of victims to a six-month period.
For purposes of this paragraph (b), the Fund Administrator will assign each class of victims to the six-month period in which the victims first had uncompensated harm as described in § 1075.104(b). When a class of victims first had uncompensated harm as described in § 1075.104(b) will be determined as follows:
(i) If redress was ordered for a class of victims in a Bureau enforcement action but suspended or waived in whole or in part, the class of victims first had uncompensated harm as described in § 1075.104(b) on the date the suspension or waiver became effective.
(ii) If redress was ordered for a class of victims in a Bureau enforcement action but determined by the Chief Financial Officer to be uncollectible in whole or in part, the class of victims first had uncompensated harm as described in § 1075.104(b) on the date the Chief Financial Officer made that determination.
(iii) If no redress was ordered for a class of victims in a Bureau enforcement action, the class of victims first had uncompensated harm as described in § 1075.104(b) on the date the order imposing a civil penalty became a final order.
(c)
No allocation to a class of victims if making payments would be impracticable.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, the Fund Administrator will not allocate funds available under § 1075.105(c) to a class of victims if she determines that making payments to that class of victims would be impracticable.
(d)
Fund Administrator's discretion.
(1) Notwithstanding any provision in this part, the Fund Administrator, in her discretion, may depart from the procedures specified by this section, including by declining to make, or altering the amount of, any allocation provided for by this section. Whenever the Fund Administrator exercises this discretion, she will provide the Civil Penalty Fund Governance Board a written explanation of the reason for departing from the procedures specified by this section.
(2) If, in allocating funds during a given time period described in § 1075.105(b)(2), the Fund Administrator exercises her discretion under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, she may allocate funds to consumer education and financial literacy programs under 1075.107 during that time period only to the same extent she could have absent that exercise of discretion.
§ 1075.107
Allocating funds to consumer education and financial literacy programs.
(a) If funds available under § 1075.105(c) remain after the Fund Administrator allocates funds as described in § 1075.106(a), the Fund Administrator may allocate those remaining funds for consumer education and financial literacy programs.
(b) The Fund Administrator shall not have the authority to allocate funds to particular consumer education or financial literacy programs or otherwise to select the particular consumer education or financial literacy programs for which allocated funds will be used.
§ 1075.108
Distributing payments to victims.
(a)
Designation of a payments administrator.
Upon allocating Civil Penalty Fund funds to a class of victims pursuant to § 1075.106, the Fund Administrator will designate a payments administrator who will be responsible for distributing payments to the victims in that class. A payments administrator may be any person, including a Bureau employee or contractor.
(b)
Distribution plan.
The payments administrator must submit to the Fund Administrator a proposed plan for the distribution of funds allocated to a class of victims. The Fund Administrator will approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove the proposed distribution plan. If the Fund Administrator disapproves a proposed plan, the payments administrator must submit a new proposed plan.
(c)
Contents of plan.
The Fund Administrator will instruct the payments administrator to prepare a distribution plan and may require that plan to include:
(1) Procedures for determining the amount each victim will receive. Such procedures may, but need not, include a process for submitting and approving claims.
(2) Procedures for locating and notifying victims eligible or potentially eligible for payment.
(3) The method or methods by which the payments will be made.
(4) The method or methods by which potentially eligible victims may contact the payments administrator.
(5) Any other provisions that the Fund Administrator deems appropriate.
(d)
Distribution of payments.
The payments administrator will make payments to victims in a class, except to the extent such payments are impracticable, in accordance with the distribution plan approved under paragraph (b) of this section and subject to the Fund Administrator's supervision.
(e)
Disposition of funds remaining after attempted distribution to a class of victims.
If funds allocated to a class of victims remain after a payments administrator distributes payments to that class, the payments administrator will distribute those remaining funds as follows:
(1) To the extent practicable, the payments administrator will distribute those remaining funds to victims in that class up to the amount of their remaining uncompensated harm as described in § 1075.104(b).
(2) Any remaining funds that cannot be distributed pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be returned to the Civil Penalty Fund.
§ 1075.109
When payments to victims are impracticable.
(a)
Individual payments.
Making a payment to an individual victim will be deemed impracticable if:
(1) The payment to the victim would be of such a small amount that the victim would not be likely to redeem the payment;
(2) The payment to the victim is too small to justify the cost of locating the victim and making the payment;
(3) The victim cannot be located with effort that is reasonable in light of the amount of the payment;
(4) The victim does not timely submit information that a distribution plan requires to be submitted before a payment will be made;
(5) The victim does not redeem the payment within a reasonable time; or
(6) The Fund Administrator determines that other circumstances make it unreasonable to make a payment to the victim.
(b)
Payments to a class of victims.
Making payments to a class of victims will be deemed impracticable if:
(1) The expected aggregate actual payment to the class of victims is too small to justify the costs of locating the victims in the class and making payments to them;
(2) It would be impracticable under paragraph (a) of this section to make a payment to any victim in the class; or
(3) The Fund Administrator determines that other circumstances make it unreasonable to make payments to the class.
§ 1075.110
Reporting requirements.
The Fund Administrator must issue regular reports, on at least an annual basis, that describe how funds in the
Civil Penalty Fund have been allocated, the basis for those allocations, and how funds that have been allocated to classes of victims have been distributed. These reports will be made available on
www.consumerfinance.gov.
Pt. 1076

# PART 1076—CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5492(a)(1), (11); 28 U.S.C. 2672; 28 CFR 14.11.

# Source:
78 FR 47153, Aug. 5, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1076.101
Claims against a Bureau employee based on negligence, wrongful act or omission.
(a)
Procedure for filing claims.
A claimant, or the claimant's duly authorized agent or legal representative may present a claim against a Bureau employee based on negligence, or wrongful act or omission, as specified in 28 CFR 14.3. Claimant or claimant's duly authorized agent or legal representative must file with the General Counsel of the Bureau a completed Claim for Damage or Injury (
Standard Form 95
), together with appropriate evidence and information, as specified in 28 CFR 14.4. Standard Form 95 may be obtained at
http://www.justice.gov/civil/docs_forms./SF-95.pdf,
or from the CFPB. Claimants also may submit a claim in the form of a letter or any other writing, a written statement, an audio file, a Braille or electronic document, and/or a video, as long as the submission contains all of the requirements of an administrative claim specified in 28 CFR part 14. Claims should be mailed or delivered to the General Counsel, Legal Division, CFPB, 1700 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20552, or emailed to
CFPB_tortclaims@cfpb.gov.
(b)
Determination of claims
—(1)
Delegation of authority to determine claims.
The General Counsel, and such employees of the Legal Division as the General Counsel may designate are authorized to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, compromise, and settle claims pursuant to the FTCA, as amended, and the regulations contained in 28 CFR part 14 and in this section.
(2)
Disallowance of claims.
If the General Counsel, or the General Counsel's designee, denies a claim, the General Counsel or designee shall notify the claimant, or the claimant's duly authorized agent or legal representative.
Pt. 1080

# PART 1080—RULES RELATING TO INVESTIGATIONS
Sec.
1080.1
Scope.
1080.2
Definitions.
1080.3
Policy as to private controversies.
1080.4
Initiating and conducting investigations.
1080.5
Notification of purpose.
1080.6
Civil investigative demands.
1080.7
Investigational hearings.
1080.8
Withholding requested material.
1080.9
Rights of witnesses in investigations.
1080.10
Noncompliance with civil investigative demands.
1080.11
Disposition.
1080.12
Orders requiring witnesses to testify or provide other information and granting immunity.
1080.13
Custodians.
1080.14
Confidential treatment of demand material and non-public nature of investigations.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 111-203, title X, 12 U.S.C. 5481
et seq.

# Source:
77 FR 39108, June 29, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1080.1
Scope.
The rules of this part apply to Bureau investigations conducted pursuant to section 1052 of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5562.
§ 1080.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:
Bureau
means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
Bureau investigation
means any inquiry conducted by a Bureau investigator for the purpose of ascertaining whether any person is or has been engaged in any conduct that is a violation.
Bureau investigator
means any attorney or investigator employed by the Bureau who is charged with the duty of enforcing or carrying into effect any Federal consumer financial law.
Custodian
means the custodian or any deputy custodian designated by the Bureau for the purpose of maintaining custody of information produced pursuant to this part.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau or a person authorized to perform the functions of the Director in accordance with the law.
Documentary material
means the original or any copy of any book, document, record, report, memorandum, paper, communication, tabulation, chart, log, electronic file, or other data or data compilation stored in any medium, including electronically stored information.
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, as amended, Public Law 111-203 (July 21, 2010), title X, codified at 12 U.S.C. 5481
et seq.
Electronically stored information (ESI)
means any information stored in any electronic medium from which information can be obtained either directly or, if necessary, after translation by the responding party into a reasonably usable form.
Person
means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.
Violation
means any act or omission that, if proved, would constitute a violation of any provision of Federal consumer financial law.
[77 FR 39108, June 29, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]
§ 1080.3
Policy as to private controversies.
The Bureau shall act only in the public interest and will not initiate an investigation or take other enforcement action when the alleged violation is merely a matter of private controversy and does not tend to affect adversely the public interest.
§ 1080.4
Initiating and conducting investigations.
The Enforcement Director and the Deputy Enforcement Directors have the nondelegable authority to initiate investigations. Bureau investigations are conducted by Bureau investigators designated and duly authorized under section 1052 of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5562, to conduct such investigations. Bureau investigators are authorized to exercise and perform their duties in accordance with the laws of the United States and the regulations of the Bureau.
[77 FR 39108, June 29, 2012, as amended at FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]
§ 1080.5
Notification of purpose.
Any person compelled to furnish documentary material, tangible things, written reports or answers to questions, oral testimony, or any combination of such material, answers, or testimony to the Bureau shall be advised of the nature of the conduct constituting the alleged violation that is under investigation and the provisions of law applicable to such violation.
§ 1080.6
Civil investigative demands.
(a)
In general.
In accordance with section 1052(c) of the Act, the Director of the Bureau, the Enforcement Director, and the Deputy Enforcement Directors, have the nondelegable authority to issue a civil investigative demand in any Bureau investigation directing the person named therein to produce documentary material for inspection and copying or reproduction in the form or medium requested by the Bureau; to submit tangible things; to provide a written report or answers to questions; to appear before a designated representative at a designated time and place to testify about documentary material, tangible things, or other information; and to furnish any combination of such material, things, answers, or testimony.
(1)
Documentary material.
(i) Civil investigative demands for the production of documentary material shall describe each class of material to be produced with such definiteness and certainty as to permit such material to be fairly identified, prescribe a return date or dates that will provide a reasonable period of time within which the material so demanded may be assembled and made available for inspection and copying or reproduction, and identify the custodian to whom such material shall be made available. Documentary material for which a civil investigative demand has been issued shall be made available as prescribed in the civil investigative demand.
(ii) Production of documentary material in response to a civil investigative
demand shall be made under a sworn certificate, in such form as the demand designates, by the person to whom the demand is directed or, if not a natural person, by any person having knowledge of the facts and circumstances relating to such production, to the effect that all of the documentary material required by the demand and in the possession, custody, or control of the person to whom the demand is directed has been produced and made available to the custodian.
(2)
Tangible things.
(i) Civil investigative demands for tangible things shall describe each class of tangible things to be produced with such definiteness and certainty as to permit such things to be fairly identified, prescribe a return date or dates which will provide a reasonable period of time within which the things so demanded may be assembled and submitted, and identify the custodian to whom such things shall be submitted.
(ii) Submissions of tangible things in response to a civil investigative demand shall be made under a sworn certificate, in such form as the demand designates, by the person to whom the demand is directed or, if not a natural person, by any person having knowledge of the facts and circumstances relating to such production, to the effect that all of the tangible things required by the demand and in the possession, custody, or control of the person to whom the demand is directed have been submitted to the custodian.
(3)
Written reports or answers to questions.
(i) Civil investigative demands for written reports or answers to questions shall propound with definiteness and certainty the reports to be produced or the questions to be answered, prescribe a date or dates at which time written reports or answers to questions shall be submitted, and identify the custodian to whom such reports or answers shall be submitted.
(ii) Each reporting requirement or question in a civil investigative demand shall be answered separately and fully in writing under oath. Responses to a civil investigative demand for a written report or answers to questions shall be made under a sworn certificate, in such form as the demand designates, by the person to whom the demand is directed or, if not a natural person, by any person responsible for answering each reporting requirement or question, to the effect that all of the information required by the demand and in the possession, custody, control, or knowledge of the person to whom the demand is directed has been submitted to the custodian.
(4)
Oral testimony.
(i) Civil investigative demands for the giving of oral testimony shall prescribe a date, time, and place at which oral testimony shall be commenced, and identify a Bureau investigator who shall conduct the investigation and the custodian to whom the transcript of such investigation shall be submitted. Oral testimony in response to a civil investigative demand shall be taken in accordance with the procedures for investigational hearings prescribed by §§ 1080.7 and 1080.9 of this part.
(ii) Where a civil investigative demand requires oral testimony from an entity, the civil investigative demand shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters for examination and the entity must designate one or more officers, directors, or managing agents, or designate other persons who consent to testify on its behalf. Unless a single individual is designated by the entity, the entity must designate the matters on which each designee will testify. The individuals designated must testify about information known or reasonably available to the entity and their testimony shall be binding on the entity.
(b)
Manner and form of production of ESI.
When a civil investigative demand requires the production of ESI, it shall be produced in accordance with the instructions provided by the Bureau regarding the manner and form of production. Absent any instructions as to the form for producing ESI, ESI must be produced in the form in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a reasonably usable form.
(c)
Meet and confer.
The recipient of a civil investigative demand shall meet and confer with a Bureau investigator within 10 calendar days after receipt of the demand or before the deadline for filing a petition to modify or set aside the demand, whichever is earlier, to discuss and attempt to resolve all
issues regarding compliance with the civil investigative demand. The Enforcement Director and the Deputy Enforcement Directors may authorize the waiver of this requirement for routine third-party civil investigative demands or in other circumstances where he or she determines that a meeting is unnecessary. The meeting may be in person or by telephone.
(1)
Personnel.
The recipient must make available at the meeting personnel with the knowledge necessary to resolve any issues relevant to compliance with the demand. Such personnel could include individuals knowledgeable about the recipient's information or records management systems and/or the recipient's organizational structure.
(2)
ESI.
If the civil investigative demand seeks ESI, the recipient shall ensure that a person familiar with its ESI systems and methods of retrieval participates in the meeting.
(3)
Petitions.
The Bureau will not consider petitions to set aside or modify a civil investigative demand unless the recipient has meaningfully engaged in the meet and confer process described in this subsection and will consider only issues raised during the meet and confer process.
(d)
Compliance.
The Enforcement Director and the Deputy Enforcement Directors are authorized to negotiate and approve the terms of satisfactory compliance with civil investigative demands and, for good cause shown, may extend the time prescribed for compliance.
(e)
Petition for order modifying or setting aside demand—in general.
Any petition for an order modifying or setting aside a civil investigative demand shall be filed with the Executive Secretary of the Bureau with a copy to the Enforcement Director within 20 calendar days after service of the civil investigative demand, or, if the return date is less than 20 calendar days after service, prior to the return date. Such petition shall set forth all factual and legal objections to the civil investigative demand, including all appropriate arguments, affidavits, and other supporting documentation. The attorney who objects to a demand must sign any objections.
(1)
Statement.
Each petition shall be accompanied by a signed statement representing that counsel for the petitioner has conferred with counsel for the Bureau pursuant to section 1080.6(c) in a good-faith effort to resolve by agreement the issues raised by the petition and has been unable to reach such an agreement. If some of the matters in controversy have been resolved by agreement, the statement shall specify the matters so resolved and the matters remaining unresolved. The statement shall recite the date, time, and place of each such meeting between counsel, and the names of all parties participating in each such meeting.
(2)
Extensions of time.
The Enforcement Director and the Deputy Enforcement Directors are authorized to rule upon requests for extensions of time within which to file such petitions. Requests for extensions of time are disfavored.
(3)
Bureau investigator response.
Bureau investigators may, without serving the petitioner, provide the Director with a statement setting forth any factual and legal response to a petition for an order modifying or setting aside the demand.
(4)
Disposition.
The Director has the authority to rule upon a petition for an order modifying or setting aside a civil investigative demand. The order may be served on the petitioner via email, facsimile, or any other method reasonably calculated to provide notice of the order to the petitioner.
(f)
Stay of compliance period.
The timely filing of a petition for an order modifying or setting aside a civil investigative demand shall stay the time permitted for compliance with the portion challenged. If the petition is denied in whole or in part, the ruling will specify a new return date.
(g)
Public disclosure.
All such petitions and the Director's orders in response to those petitions are part of the public records of the Bureau unless the Bureau determines otherwise for good cause shown. Any showing of good cause must be made no later than the time the petition is filed.
[77 FR 39108, June 29, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]
§ 1080.7
Investigational hearings.
(a) Investigational hearings, as distinguished from hearings in adjudicative proceedings, may be conducted pursuant to a civil investigative demand for the giving of oral testimony in the course of any Bureau investigation, including inquiries initiated for the purpose of determining whether or not a respondent is complying with an order of the Bureau.
(b) Investigational hearings shall be conducted by any Bureau investigator for the purpose of hearing the testimony of witnesses and receiving documentary material, tangible things, or other information relating to any subject under investigation. Such hearings shall be under oath or affirmation and stenographically reported, and a transcript thereof shall be made a part of the record of the investigation. The Bureau investigator conducting the investigational hearing also may direct that the testimony be recorded by audio, audiovisual, or other means, in which case the recording shall be made a part of the record of the investigation as well.
(c) In investigational hearings, the Bureau investigators shall exclude from the hearing room all persons except the person being examined, his or her counsel, the officer before whom the testimony is to be taken, any investigator or representative of an agency with which the Bureau is engaged in a joint investigation, and any individual transcribing or recording such testimony. At the discretion of the Bureau investigator, and with the consent of the person being examined, persons other than those listed in this paragraph may be present in the hearing room. The Bureau investigator shall certify or direct the individual transcribing the testimony to certify on the transcript that the witness was duly sworn and that the transcript is a true record of the testimony given by the witness. A copy of the transcript shall be forwarded promptly by the Bureau investigator to the custodian designated in section 1080.13.
§ 1080.8
Withholding requested material.
(a) Any person withholding material responsive to a civil investigative demand or any other request for production of material shall assert a claim of privilege not later than the date set for the production of material. Such person shall, if so directed in the civil investigative demand or other request for production, submit, together with such claim, a schedule of the items withheld which states, as to each such item, the type, specific subject matter, and date of the item; the names, addresses, positions, and organizations of all authors and recipients of the item; and the specific grounds for claiming that the item is privileged. The person who submits the schedule and the attorney stating the grounds for a claim that any item is privileged must sign it.
(b) A person withholding material solely for reasons described in this subsection shall comply with the requirements of this subsection in lieu of filing a petition for an order modifying or setting aside a civil investigative demand pursuant to section 1080.6(e).
(c) Disclosure of privileged or protected information or communications produced pursuant to a civil investigative demand shall be handled as follows:
(1) The disclosure of privileged or protected information or communications shall not operate as a waiver with respect to the Bureau if:
(i) The disclosure was inadvertent;
(ii) The holder of the privilege or protection took reasonable steps to prevent disclosure; and
(iii) The holder promptly took reasonable steps to rectify the error, including notifying a Bureau investigator of the claim of privilege or protection and the basis for it.
(2) After being notified, the Bureau investigator must promptly return, sequester, or destroy the specified information and any copies; must not use or disclose the information until the claim is resolved; must take reasonable steps to retrieve the information if he or she disclosed it before being notified; and, if appropriate, may sequester such material until such time as a hearing officer or court rules on the merits of the claim of privilege or protection. The producing party must preserve the information until the claim is resolved.
(3) The disclosure of privileged or protected information or communications shall waive the privilege or protection with respect to the Bureau as to undisclosed information or communications only if:
(i) The waiver is intentional;
(ii) The disclosed and undisclosed information or communications concern the same subject matter; and
(iii) They ought in fairness to be considered together.
§ 1080.9
Rights of witnesses in investigations.
(a) Any person compelled to submit documentary material, tangible things, or written reports or answers to questions to the Bureau, or to testify in an investigational hearing, shall be entitled to retain a copy or, on payment of lawfully prescribed costs, request a copy of the materials, things, reports, or written answers submitted, or a transcript of his or her testimony. The Bureau, however, may for good cause deny such a request and limit the witness to inspection of the official transcript of the testimony. Upon completion of transcription of the testimony of the witness, the witness shall be offered an opportunity to read the transcript of his or her testimony. Any changes by the witness shall be entered and identified upon the transcript by the Bureau investigator with a statement of the reasons given by the witness for making such changes. The transcript shall then be signed by the witness and submitted to the Bureau unless the witness cannot be found, is ill, waives in writing his or her right to signature, or refuses to sign. If the signed transcript is not submitted to the Bureau within 30 calendar days of the witness being afforded a reasonable opportunity to review it, the Bureau investigator, or the individual transcribing the testimony acting at the Bureau investigator's direction, shall sign the transcript and state on the record the fact of the waiver, illness, absence of the witness, or the refusal to sign, together with any reasons given for the failure to sign.
(b) Any witness compelled to appear in person at an investigational hearing may be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel as follows:
(1) Counsel for a witness may advise the witness, in confidence and upon the initiative of either counsel or the witness, with respect to any question asked of the witness where it is claimed that a witness is privileged to refuse to answer the question. Counsel may not otherwise consult with the witness while a question directed to the witness is pending.
(2) Any objections made under the rules in this part shall be made only for the purpose of protecting a constitutional or other legal right or privilege, including the privilege against self-incrimination. Neither the witness nor counsel shall otherwise object or refuse to answer any question. Any objection during an investigational hearing shall be stated concisely on the record in a nonargumentative and nonsuggestive manner. Following an objection, the examination shall proceed and the testimony shall be taken, except for testimony requiring the witness to divulge information protected by the claim of privilege or work product.
(3) Counsel for a witness may not, for any purpose or to any extent not allowed by paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, interrupt the examination of the witness by making any objections or statements on the record. Petitions challenging the Bureau's authority to conduct the investigation or the sufficiency or legality of the civil investigative demand shall be addressed to the Bureau in advance of the hearing in accordance with § 1080.6(e). Copies of such petitions may be filed as part of the record of the investigation with the Bureau investigator conducting the investigational hearing, but no arguments in support thereof will be allowed at the hearing.
(4) Following completion of the examination of a witness, counsel for the witness may, on the record, request that the Bureau investigator conducting the investigational hearing permit the witness to clarify any of his or her answers. The grant or denial of such request shall be within the sole discretion of the Bureau investigator conducting the hearing.
(5) The Bureau investigator conducting the hearing shall take all necessary action to regulate the course of
the hearing to avoid delay and to prevent or restrain disorderly, dilatory, obstructionist, or contumacious conduct, or contemptuous language. Such Bureau investigator shall, for reasons stated on the record, immediately report to the Bureau any instances where an attorney has allegedly refused to comply with his or her obligations under the rules in this part, or has allegedly engaged in disorderly, dilatory, obstructionist, or contumacious conduct, or contemptuous language in the course of the hearing. The Bureau will thereupon take such further action, if any, as the circumstances warrant, including actions consistent with those described in 12 CFR 1081.107(c) to suspend or disbar the attorney from further practice before the Bureau or exclude the attorney from further participation in the particular investigation.
§ 1080.10
Noncompliance with civil investigative demands.
(a) In cases of failure to comply in whole or in part with Bureau civil investigative demands, appropriate action may be initiated by the Bureau, including actions for enforcement.
(b) The Director, the Enforcement Director, and the General Counsel of the Bureau are authorized to:
(1) Institute, on behalf of the Bureau, an enforcement proceeding in the district court of the United States for any judicial district in which a person resides, is found, or transacts business, in connection with the failure or refusal of such person to comply with, or to obey, a civil investigative demand in whole or in part if the return date or any extension thereof has passed; and
(2) Seek civil contempt or other appropriate relief in cases where a court order enforcing a civil investigative demand has been violated.
[77 FR 39108, June 29, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]
§ 1080.11
Disposition.
(a) When the facts disclosed by an investigation indicate that an enforcement action is warranted, further proceedings may be instituted in Federal or State court or pursuant to the Bureau's administrative adjudicatory process. Where appropriate, the Bureau also may refer investigations to appropriate Federal, State, or foreign governmental agencies.
(b) When the facts disclosed by an investigation indicate that an enforcement action is not necessary or would not be in the public interest, the investigational file will be closed. The matter may be further investigated, at any time, if circumstances so warrant.
(c) The Enforcement Director and the Deputy Enforcement Directors are authorized to close Bureau investigations.
[77 FR 39108, June 29, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]
§ 1080.12
Orders requiring witnesses to testify or provide other information and granting immunity.
The Director has the nondelegable authority to request approval from the Attorney General of the United States for the issuance of an order requiring a witness to testify or provide other information and granting immunity under 18 U.S.C. 6004.
§ 1080.13
Custodians.
(a) The Bureau shall designate a custodian and one or more deputy custodians for material to be delivered pursuant to a civil investigative demand in an investigation. The custodian shall have the powers and duties prescribed by 12 CFR 1070.3 and section 1052 of the Act, 12 U.S.C. 5562. Deputy custodians may perform all of the duties assigned to custodians.
(b) Material produced pursuant to a civil investigative demand, while in the custody of the custodian, shall be for the official use of the Bureau in accordance with the Act; but such material shall upon reasonable notice to the custodian be made available for examination by the person who produced such material, or his or her duly authorized representative, during regular office hours established for the Bureau.
§ 1080.14
Confidential treatment of demand material and non-public nature of investigations.
(a) Documentary materials, written reports, answers to questions, tangible things or transcripts of oral testimony the Bureau receives in any form or format pursuant to a civil investigative
demand are subject to the requirements and procedures relating to the disclosure of records and information set forth in part 1070 of this title.
(b) Bureau investigations generally are non-public. Bureau investigators may disclose the existence of an investigation to potential witnesses or third parties to the extent necessary to advance the investigation.
Pt. 1081

# PART 1081—RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General Rules
Sec.
1081.100
Scope of the rules of practice.
1081.101
Expedition and fairness of proceedings.
1081.102
Rules of construction.
1081.103
Definitions.
1081.104
Authority of the hearing officer.
1081.105
Assignment, substitution, performance, disqualification of hearing officer.
1081.106
Deadlines.
1081.107
Appearance and practice in adjudication proceedings.
1081.108
Good faith certification.
1081.109
Conflict of interest.
1081.110
Ex parte communication.
1081.111
Filing of papers.
1081.112
Formal requirements as to papers filed.
1081.113
Service of papers.
1081.114
Construction of time limits.
1081.115
Change of time limits.
1081.116
Witness fees and expenses.
1081.117
Bureau's right to conduct examination, collect information.
1081.118
Collateral attacks on adjudication proceedings.
1081.119
Confidential information; protective orders.
1081.120
Settlement.
1081.121
Cooperation with other agencies.

# Subpart B—Initiation of Proceedings and Prehearing Rules
1081.200
Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice of charges.
1081.201
Answer and disclosure statement and notification of financial interest.
1081.202
Amended pleadings.
1081.203
Scheduling conference.
1081.204
Consolidation, severance, or bifurcation of proceedings.
1081.205
Non-dispositive motions.
1081.206
Availability of documents for inspection and copying.
1081.207
Production of witness statements.
1081.208
Subpoenas.
1081.209
Depositions.
1081.210
Expert discovery.
1081.211
Interlocutory review.
1081.212
Dispositive motions.
1081.213
Rulings on dispositive motions.
1081.214
Prehearing conferences.
1081.215
Prehearing submissions.
1081.216
Amicus participation.

# Subpart C—Hearings
1081.300
Public hearings.
1081.301
Failure to appear.
1081.302
Conduct of hearings.
1081.303
Evidence.
1081.304
Record of the hearing.
1081.305
Post-hearing filings.
1081.306
Record in proceedings before hearing officer; retention of documents; copies.

# Subpart D—Decision and Appeals
1081.400
Preliminary findings and conclusions of the hearing officer.
1081.401
Transmission of documents to Director; record index; certification.
1081.402
Notice of appeal; review by the Director.
1081.403
Briefs filed with the Director.
1081.404
Oral argument before the Director.
1081.405
Decision of the Director.
1081.406
Reconsideration.
1081.407
Effective date; stays pending judicial review.
1081.408
Issue exhaustion.

# Subpart E—Temporary Cease-and-Desist Proceedings
1081.500
Scope.
1081.501
Basis for issuance, form, and service.
1081.502
Judicial review, duration.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5512(b)(1), 5563(e).

# Source:
87 FR 10034, Feb. 22, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 1081 appear at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024.

# Subpart A—General Rules
§ 1081.100
Scope of the rules of practice.
This part prescribes rules of practice and procedure applicable to adjudication proceedings authorized by section 1053 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563). The rules of practice in this part do not govern the conduct of Bureau investigations, investigational hearings or other proceedings that do not arise from proceedings after a notice of charges.
§ 1081.101
Expedition and fairness of proceedings.
To the extent practicable, consistent with requirements of law, the Bureau's policy is to conduct such adjudication proceedings fairly and expeditiously. In the conduct of such proceedings, the hearing officer and counsel for all parties must make every effort at each stage of a proceeding to avoid delay. With the consent of the parties, the Director, at any time, or the hearing officer at any time prior to the filing of the hearing officer's preliminary findings and conclusions, may change any time limit prescribed by this part.
§ 1081.102
Rules of construction.
For the purposes of this part:
(a) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate;
(b) Any use of a masculine, feminine, or neutral gender encompasses all three, if such use would be appropriate;
(c) Unless context requires otherwise, a party's counsel of record, if any, may, on behalf of that party, take any action required to be taken by the party; and
(d) To the extent this part uses terms defined by section 1002 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481), such terms have the same meaning as set forth therein, unless defined differently by § 1081.103.
§ 1081.103
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:
Adjudication proceeding
means a proceeding conducted pursuant to section 1053 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563) and intended to lead to the formulation of a final order other than a temporary order to cease and desist issued pursuant to section 1053(c) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 5563(c)).
Bureau
means the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Chief hearing officer
means the hearing officer charged with assigning hearing officers to specific proceedings, in the event there is more than one hearing officer available to the Bureau.
Counsel
means any person representing a party pursuant to § 1081.107.
Decisional employee
means any employee of the Bureau who has not engaged in an investigative or prosecutorial role in a proceeding and who may assist the Director or the hearing officer, respectively, in preparing orders, preliminary findings and conclusions, decisions, and other documents under this part.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau or a person authorized to perform the functions of the Director in accordance with the law.
Enforcement counsel
means any individual who files a notice of appearance as counsel on behalf of the Enforcement Division in an adjudication proceeding.
Enforcement Division
means the unit of the Bureau responsible for enforcement of Federal consumer financial law or other laws enforceable by the Bureau.
Final order
means an order issued by the Bureau with or without the consent of the respondent, which has become final, without regard to the pendency of any petition for reconsideration or review.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the Bureau or any Bureau employee to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority to act under this part.
Hearing officer
means an administrative law judge or any other person duly authorized to preside at a hearing.
Notice of charges
means the pleading that commences an adjudication proceeding, as described in § 1081.200, except that it does not include a stipulation and consent order under § 1081.200(d).
Office of Administrative Adjudication
means the office of the Bureau responsible for conducting adjudication proceedings.
Party
means the Enforcement Division, any person named as a party in any notice of charges issued pursuant to this part, and, to the extent applicable, any person who intervenes in the proceeding pursuant to § 1081.119(a) to seek a protective order.
Person
means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.
Person employed by the Bureau
means Bureau employees, contractors, agents, and others acting for or on behalf of the Bureau, or at its direction, including consulting experts.
Respondent
means the party named in the notice of charges.
State
means any State, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the United States Virgin Islands or any federally recognized Indian tribe, as defined by the Secretary of the Interior under section 104(a) of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 479a-1(a).
[87 FR 10034, Feb. 22, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]
§ 1081.104
Authority of the hearing officer.
(a)
General rule.
The hearing officer will have all powers necessary to conduct a proceeding in a fair and impartial manner and to avoid unnecessary delay. No provision of this part may be construed to limit the powers of the hearing officers provided by the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556, 557.
(b)
Powers.
The powers of the hearing officer include but are not limited to the power:
(1) To administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) To issue subpoenas, subpoenas
duces tecum,
and protective orders, as authorized by this part, and to quash or modify any such subpoenas or orders;
(3) To take depositions or cause depositions to be taken;
(4) To receive relevant evidence and to rule upon the admission of evidence and offers of proof;
(5) To regulate the course of a proceeding and the conduct of parties and their counsel;
(6) To reject written submissions that materially fail to comply with the requirements of this part, and to deny confidential status to documents and testimony without prejudice until a party complies with all relevant rules of this chapter;
(7) To hold conferences for settlement, simplification of the issues, or any other proper purpose and require the attendance at any such conference of at least one representative of each party who has authority to negotiate concerning the resolution of issues in controversy;
(8) To inform the parties as to the availability of one or more alternative means of dispute resolution, and to encourage the use of such methods;
(9) To certify questions to the Director for the Director's determination in accordance with the rules of this part;
(10) To consider and rule upon, as justice may require, all procedural and other motions appropriate in adjudication proceedings;
(11) To issue and file preliminary findings and conclusions;
(12) To recuse oneself by motion made by a party or on the hearing officer's own motion;
(13) To issue such sanctions against parties or their counsel as may be necessary to deter repetition of sanctionable conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated, as provided for in this part or as otherwise necessary to the appropriate conduct of hearings and related proceedings, provided that no sanction will be imposed before providing the sanctioned person an opportunity to show cause why no such sanction should issue; and
(14) To do all other things necessary and appropriate to discharge the duties of a presiding officer.
§ 1081.105
Assignment, substitution, performance, disqualification of hearing officer.
(a)
How assigned.
In the event that more than one hearing officer is available to the Bureau for the conduct of proceedings under this part, the presiding hearing officer will be designated by the chief hearing officer, who will notify the parties of the hearing officer designated.
(b)
Interference.
Hearing officers will not be subject to the supervision or direction of, or responsible to, any officer, employee, or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the Bureau, and
all direction by the Bureau to the hearing officer concerning any adjudication proceedings must appear in and be made part of the record.
(c)
Disqualification of hearing officers.
(1) When a hearing officer deems the hearing officer disqualified to preside in a particular proceeding, the hearing officer must issue a notice stating that the hearing officer is withdrawing from the matter and setting forth the reasons therefore.
(2) Any party who has a reasonable, good faith basis to believe that a hearing officer has a personal bias, or is otherwise disqualified from hearing a case, may make a motion to the hearing officer that the hearing officer withdraw. The motion must be accompanied by an affidavit setting forth the facts alleged to constitute grounds for disqualification. Such motion must be filed at the earliest practicable time after the party learns, or could reasonably have learned, of the alleged grounds for disqualification. If the hearing officer does not disqualify the hearing officer within 14 days, the hearing officer must certify the motion to the Director pursuant to § 1081.211, together with any statement the hearing officer may wish to have considered by the Director. The Director must promptly determine the validity of the grounds alleged, either directly or on the report of another hearing officer appointed to conduct a hearing for that purpose, and will either direct the reassignment of the matter or confirm the hearing officer's continued role in the matter.
(d)
Unavailability of hearing officer.
If the hearing officer withdraws or is otherwise unable to perform the duties of the hearing officer, the chief hearing officer or the Director will designate another hearing officer to serve.
§ 1081.106
Deadlines.
The deadlines for action by the hearing officer established by §§ 1081.203, 1081.205, 1081.211, 1081.212, and 1081.400, or elsewhere in this part, confer no substantive rights on respondents.
§ 1081.107
Appearance and practice in adjudication proceedings.
(a)
Appearance before the Bureau or a hearing officer
—(1)
By attorneys.
Any member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State may represent others before the Bureau if such attorney is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Bureau or by a court of the United States or of any State.
(2)
By non-attorneys.
So long as such individual is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the Bureau:
(i) An individual may appear on the individual's own behalf;
(ii) A member of a partnership may represent the partnership;
(iii) A duly authorized officer of a corporation, trust, or association may represent the corporation, trust, or association; and
(iv) A duly authorized officer or employee of any government unit, agency, or authority may represent that unit, agency, or authority.
(3)
Notice of appearance.
Any individual acting as counsel on behalf of a party, including Enforcement counsel, must file a notice of appearance at or before the time that the individual submits papers or otherwise appears on behalf of a party in the adjudication proceeding. The notice of appearance must include a written declaration that the individual is currently qualified as provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section and is authorized to represent the particular party, and if applicable, must include the attorney's jurisdiction of admission or qualification, attorney identification number, and a statement by the appearing attorney attesting to the attorney's good standing within the legal profession. By filing a notice of appearance on behalf of a party in an adjudication proceeding, the counsel agrees and represents that counsel is authorized to accept service on behalf of the represented party and that, in the event of withdrawal from representation, counsel will, if required by the hearing officer, continue to accept service until a new counsel has filed a notice of appearance or until the represented party indicates that the party will proceed on a pro se basis. The notice of appearance must provide the representative's email address, telephone number, and business address and, if different from the representative's addresses, electronic or
other address at which the represented party may be served.
(b)
Sanctions.
Dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous, or contumacious conduct at any phase of any adjudication proceeding may be grounds for exclusion or suspension of counsel from the proceeding. An order imposing a sanction must describe the sanctioned conduct and explain the basis for the sanction.
(c)
Standards of conduct; disbarment.
(1) All attorneys practicing before the Bureau must conform to the standards of ethical conduct required by the bars of which the attorneys are members.
(2) If for good cause shown, the Director believes that any attorney is not conforming to such standards, or that an attorney or counsel to a party has otherwise engaged in conduct warranting disciplinary action, the Director may issue an order requiring such person to show cause why the attorney should not be suspended or disbarred from practice before the Bureau. The alleged offender will be granted due opportunity to be heard in the alleged offender's own defense and may be represented by counsel. Thereafter, if warranted by the facts, the Director may issue against the attorney or counsel an order of reprimand, suspension, or disbarment.
§ 1081.108
Good faith certification.
(a)
General requirement.
Every filing or submission of record following the issuance of a notice of charges must be signed by at least one counsel of record in counsel's individual name and must state counsel's address, email address, and telephone number. A party who acts as the party's own counsel must sign the party's individual name and state the party's address, email address, and telephone number on every filing or submission of record. Papers filed by electronic transmission may be signed with an “/s/” notation, which will be deemed the signature of the party or representative whose name appears below the signature line.
(b)
Effect of signature.
(1) The signature of counsel or a party constitutes a certification that: The counsel or party has read the filing or submission of record; to the best of one's knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the filing or submission of record is well-grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and the filing or submission of record is not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) If a filing or submission of record is not signed, the hearing officer must strike the filing or submission of record, unless it is signed promptly after the omission is called to the attention of the filer.
(c)
Effect of making oral motion or argument.
The act of making any oral motion or oral argument by any counsel or party constitutes a certification that to the best of one's knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, one's statements are well-grounded in fact and are warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, and are not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(d)
Sanctions.
Counsel or a party that fails to abide by the requirements of this section may be subject to sanctions pursuant to § 1081.104(b)(13).
§ 1081.109
Conflict of interest.
(a)
Conflict of interest in representation.
No person may appear as counsel for another person in an adjudication proceeding if it reasonably appears that such representation may be materially limited by that counsel's responsibilities to a third person or by the counsel's own interests. The hearing officer may take corrective measures at any stage of a proceeding to cure a conflict of interest in representation, including the issuance of an order limiting the scope of representation or disqualifying an individual from appearing in a representative capacity for the duration of the proceeding.
(b)
Certification and waiver.
If any person appearing as counsel represents two or more parties to an adjudication proceeding or also represents a non-party on a matter relevant to an issue in the proceeding, counsel must certify
in writing at the time of filing the notice of appearance required by § 1081.107(a)(3):
(1) That the counsel has personally and fully discussed the possibility of conflicts of interest with each such party and non-party; and
(2) That each such party and/or non-party waives any right it might otherwise have had to assert any known conflicts of interest or to assert any conflicts of interest during the course of the proceeding.
§ 1081.110
Ex parte communication.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) For purposes of this section,
ex parte communication
means any material oral or written communication relevant to the merits of an adjudication proceeding that was neither on the record nor on reasonable prior notice to all parties that takes place between:
(i) An interested person not employed by the Bureau (including such person's counsel); and
(ii) The hearing officer handling the proceeding, the Director, or a decisional employee.
(2) A request for status of the proceeding does not constitute an ex parte communication.
(3)
Pendency of an adjudication proceeding
means the time from when the Bureau issues a notice of charges, unless the person responsible for the communication has knowledge that a notice of charges will be issued, in which case the pendency of an adjudication will commence at the time of that person's acquisition of such knowledge, or from when an order by a court of competent jurisdiction remanding a Bureau decision and order for further proceedings becomes effective, until the time the Director enters a final decision and order in the proceeding and the time permitted to seek reconsideration of that decision and order has elapsed. For purposes of this section, an order of remand by a court of competent jurisdiction is deemed to become effective when the Bureau's right to petition for review or for a writ of certiorari has lapsed without a petition having been filed, or when such a petition has been denied. If a petition for reconsideration of a Bureau decision is filed pursuant to § 1081.406, the matter will be considered to be a pending adjudication proceeding until the time the Bureau enters an order disposing of the petition.
(b)
Prohibited ex parte communications.
During the pendency of an adjudication proceeding, except to the extent required for the disposition of ex parte matters as authorized by law or as otherwise authorized by this part:
(1) No interested person not employed by the Bureau will make or knowingly cause to be made to the Director, or to the hearing officer, or to any decisional employee, an ex parte communication; and
(2) The Director, the hearing officer, or any decisional employee will not make or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person not employed by the Bureau any ex parte communication.
(c)
Procedure upon occurrence of ex parte communication.
If an ex parte communication prohibited by paragraph (b) of this section is received by the hearing officer, the Director, or any decisional employee, that person must cause all such written communications (or, if the communication is oral, a memorandum stating the substance of the communication) to be placed on the record of the proceeding and served on all parties. All other parties to the proceeding will have an opportunity, within 14 days of receipt of service of the ex parte communication, to file responses thereto and to recommend any sanctions, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, that they believe to be appropriate under the circumstances.
(d)
Sanctions
—(1)
Adverse action on claim.
Upon receipt of an ex parte communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to be made by a party and prohibited by paragraph (b) of this section, the Director or hearing officer, as appropriate, may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policy of the underlying statutes, require the party to show cause why the party's claim or interest in the proceeding should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected on account of such violation.
(2)
Discipline of persons practicing before the Bureau.
The Director may, to
the extent not prohibited by law, censure, suspend, or revoke the privilege to practice before the Bureau of any person who makes, or solicits the making of, an unauthorized ex parte communication.
(e)
Separation of functions.
Except to the extent required for the disposition of ex parte matters as authorized by law, the hearing officer may not consult a person or party on any matter relevant to the merits of the adjudication, unless upon notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. An employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the Bureau in a case, other than the Director, may not, in that or a factually related case, participate or advise in the decision, preliminary findings and conclusions, or agency review of the preliminary findings and conclusions, except as witness or counsel in public proceedings.
§ 1081.111
Filing of papers.
(a)
Filing.
The following papers must be filed by parties in an adjudication proceeding: The notice of charges, proof of service of the notice of charges, notices of appearance, answer, the disclosure statement required under § 1081.201(e), motion, brief, request for issuance or enforcement of a subpoena, response, opposition, reply, notice of appeal, or petition for reconsideration. The hearing officer or Director (as applicable) will file all written orders, rulings, notices, or requests. Any papers required to be filed must be filed with the Office of Administrative Adjudication, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b)
Manner of filing.
Unless otherwise specified by the Director or the hearing officer, filing may be accomplished by:
(1) Electronic transmission in accordance with guidance issued by the Office of Administrative Adjudication; or
(2) Any of the following methods if respondent demonstrates, in accordance with guidance issued by the Office of Administrative Adjudication, that electronic filing is not practicable:
(i) Personal delivery;
(ii) Delivery to a reliable commercial courier service or overnight delivery service; or
(iii) Mailing the papers through the U.S. Postal Service by First Class Mail, Registered Mail, Certified Mail or Express Mail.
(c)
Papers filed in an adjudication proceeding are presumed to be public.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Director or the hearing officer, all papers filed in connection with an adjudication proceeding are presumed to be open to the public. The Bureau may provide public access to and publish any papers filed in an adjudication proceeding except if there is a pending motion for a protective order filed pursuant to § 1081.119, or if there is an order from the Director, hearing officer, or a Federal court authorizing the confidential treatment of the papers filed.
§ 1081.112
Formal requirements as to papers filed.
(a)
Form.
All papers filed by parties must:
(1) Set forth the name, address, telephone number, and email address of the counsel or party making the filing;
(2) Be double-spaced (except for single-spaced footnotes and single-spaced indented quotations) and printed or typewritten on 8
1/2
x 11 inch paper in 12-point or larger font;
(3) Include at the head of the paper, or on a title page, a caption setting forth the title of the case, the docket number of the proceeding, and a brief descriptive title indicating the purpose of the paper;
(4) Be paginated with margins at least one inch wide; and
(5) If filed by other than electronic means, be stapled, clipped, or otherwise fastened in a manner that lies flat when opened.
(b)
Signature.
All papers must be dated and signed as provided in § 1081.108.
(c)
Number of copies.
Unless otherwise specified by the Director or the hearing officer, one copy of all documents and papers must be filed if filing is by electronic transmission. If filing is accomplished by any other means, an original and one copy of all documents and papers must be filed, except that only one copy of transcripts of testimony and exhibits must be filed.
(d)
Authority to reject document for filing.
The Office of Administrative Adjudication or the hearing officer may reject a document for filing that materially fails to comply with this part.
(e)
Sensitive personal information.
Sensitive personal information means an individual's Social Security number, taxpayer identification number, financial account number, credit card or debit card number, driver's license number, State-issued identification number, passport number, date of birth (other than year), and any sensitive health information identifiable by individual, such as an individual's medical records. Sensitive personal information must not be included in, and must be redacted or omitted from, filings unless the person filing the paper determines that such information is relevant or otherwise necessary for the conduct of the proceeding. If the person filing a paper determines the sensitive personal information contained in the paper is relevant or necessary to the proceeding, the person must file the paper in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, including filing an expurgated copy of the paper with the sensitive personal information redacted.
(f)
Confidential treatment of information in certain filings.
A party seeking confidential treatment of information contained in a filing must contemporaneously file either a motion requesting such treatment in accordance with § 1081.119 or a copy of the order from the Director, hearing officer, or Federal court authorizing such confidential treatment. The filing must comply with any applicable order of the Director or hearing officer and must be accompanied by:
(1) A complete, sealed copy of the documents containing the materials as to which confidential treatment is sought, with the allegedly confidential material clearly marked as such, and with the first page of the document labeled “Under Seal.” If the movant seeks or has obtained a protective order against disclosure to other parties as well as the public, copies of the documents will not be served on other parties; and
(2) An expurgated copy of the materials as to which confidential treatment is sought, with the allegedly confidential materials redacted. The redacted version must indicate any omissions with brackets or ellipses, and its pagination and depiction of text on each page must be identical to that of the sealed version.
(g)
Certificate of service.
Any papers filed in an adjudication proceeding must contain proof of service on all other parties or their counsel in the form of a statement of the date and manner of service and of the names of the persons served, certified by the person who made service. The certificate of service must be affixed to the papers filed and signed in accordance with § 1081.108.
§ 1081.113
Service of papers.
(a)
When required.
In every adjudication proceeding, each paper required to be filed by § 1081.111 must be served upon each party in the proceeding in accordance with the provisions of this section; provided, however, that absent an order to the contrary, no service is required for motions which are to be heard ex parte.
(b)
Upon a person represented by counsel.
Whenever service is required to be made upon a person represented by counsel who has filed a notice of appearance pursuant to § 1081.107(a)(3), service shall be made pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section upon counsel, unless service upon the person represented is ordered by the Director or the hearing officer, as appropriate.
(c)
Method of service.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section or as otherwise ordered by the hearing officer or the Director, service must be made by delivering a copy of the filing by one of the following methods:
(1) Transmitting the papers by electronic transmission where the persons so serving each other have consented to service by specified electronic transmission and provided the Bureau and the parties with notice of the means for service by electronic transmission (
e.g.,
email address or facsimile number);
(2) Handing a copy to the person required to be served; or leaving a copy at the person's office with a clerk or other person in charge thereof, or, if there is no one in charge, leaving it in
a conspicuous place therein; or, if the office is closed or the person to be served has no office, leaving it at the person's dwelling or usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion then residing therein;
(3) Mailing the papers through the U.S. Postal Service by First Cass Mail, Registered Mail, Certified Mail or Express Mail delivery addressed to the person; or
(4) Sending the papers through a third-party commercial courier service or express delivery service.
(d)
Service of certain papers by the Enforcement Division or the Office of Administrative Adjudication
—(1)
Service of a notice of charges by the Enforcement Division
—(i)
To individuals.
Notice of a proceeding shall be made to an individual by delivering a copy of the notice of charges to the individual or to an agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive such notice. Delivery, for purposes of this paragraph (d)(1)(i), means handing a copy of the notice to the individual; or leaving a copy at the individual's office with a clerk or other person in charge thereof; or leaving a copy at the individual's dwelling house or usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion then residing therein; or sending a copy of the notice addressed to the individual through the U.S. Postal Service by Registered Mail, Certified Mail or Express Mail delivery, or by third-party commercial carrier, for overnight delivery and obtaining a confirmation of receipt.
(ii)
To corporations or entities.
Notice of a proceeding must be made to a person other than a natural person by delivering a copy of the notice of charges to an officer, managing or general agent, or any other agent authorized by appointment or law to receive such notice, by any method specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Upon persons registered with the Bureau.
In addition to any other method of service specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, notice may be made to a person currently registered with the Bureau by sending a copy of the notice of charges addressed to the most recent business address shown on the person's registration form by U.S. Postal Service certified, registered, or Express Mail and obtaining a confirmation of receipt or attempted delivery.
(iv)
Upon persons in a foreign country.
Notice of a proceeding to a person in a foreign country may be made by any method specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, or by any other method reasonably calculated to give notice, provided that the method of service used is not prohibited by the law of the foreign country.
(v)
Record of service.
The Enforcement Division will maintain and file a record of service of the notice of charges on parties, identifying the party given notice, the method of service, the date of service, the address to which service was made, and the person who made service. If service is made in person, the certificate of service must state, if available, the name of the individual to whom the notice of charges was given. If service is made by U.S. Postal Service Registered Mail, Certified Mail, or Express Mail, the Enforcement Division will maintain the confirmation of receipt or attempted delivery. If service is made to an agent authorized by appointment to receive service, the certificate of service must be accompanied by evidence of the appointment.
(vi)
Waiver of service.
In lieu of service as set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, the party may be provided a copy of the notice of charges by First Class Mail or other reliable means if a waiver of service is obtained from the party and placed in the record.
(2)
Service of papers by the Office of Administrative Adjudication.
Unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer or Director, the Office of Administrative Adjudication must serve papers filed by the hearing officer or Director promptly on each party pursuant to any method of service authorized under paragraph (c) or (d)(1) of this section. Unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer or Director, if a party is represented by counsel who has filed a notice of appearance pursuant to § 1081.107(a)(3), the Office of Administrative Adjudication serves that party by serving its counsel.
§ 1081.114
Construction of time limits.
(a)
General rule.
In computing any time period prescribed by this part, by order of the Director or a hearing officer, or by any applicable statute, exclude the day of the event that triggers the period, count every day, including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, and include the last day of the period unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6103(a). When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.
(b)
When papers are deemed to be filed or served.
Filing and service are deemed to be effective:
(1) In the case of personal service or same day commercial courier delivery, upon actual receipt by person served;
(2) In the case of overnight commercial delivery service, Express Mail delivery, First Class Mail, Registered Mail, or Certified Mail, upon deposit in or delivery to an appropriate point of collection; or
(3) In the case of electronic transmission, upon transmission.
(c)
Calculation of time for service and filing of responsive papers.
Whenever a time limit is measured by a prescribed period from the service of any notice or paper, the applicable time limits are calculated as follows:
(1) If service is made by First Class Mail, Registered Mail, or Certified Mail, add three calendar days to the prescribed period;
(2) If service is made by Express Mail or overnight delivery service, add one calendar day to the prescribed period; or
(3) If service is made by electronic transmission, add one calendar day to the prescribed period.
§ 1081.115
Change of time limits.
(a)
Generally.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the hearing officer may, in any proceeding before him or her, for good cause shown, extend the time limits prescribed by this part or by any notice or order issued in the proceedings. After appeal to the Director pursuant to § 1081.402, the Director may grant extensions of the time limits for good cause shown. Extensions may be granted on the motion of a party after notice and opportunity to respond is afforded all non-moving parties or on the Director's or the hearing officer's own motion, as appropriate.
(b)
Considerations in determining whether to extend time limits or grant postponements, adjournments and extensions.
Motions for extensions of time filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are generally disfavored. In determining whether to grant any motions, the Director or hearing officer, as appropriate, will consider, in addition to any other relevant factors:
(1) The length of the proceeding to date;
(2) The number of postponements, adjournments or extensions already granted;
(3) The stage of the proceedings at the time of the motion;
(4) The impact of the motion on the hearing officer's ability to complete the proceeding in the time specified by § 1081.400(a); and
(5) Any other matters as justice may require.
(c)
Time limit.
Postponements, adjournments, or extensions of time for filing papers may not exceed 21 days unless the Director or the hearing officer, as appropriate, states on the record or sets forth in a written order the reasons why a longer period of time is necessary.
(d)
No effect on deadline for preliminary findings and conclusions.
The granting of any extension of time pursuant to this section does not affect any deadlines set pursuant to § 1081.400(a).
§ 1081.116
Witness fees and expenses.
Respondents must pay to witnesses subpoenaed for testimony or depositions on their behalf the same fees for attendance and mileage as are paid in the United States district courts in proceedings in which the United States is a party, provided that, in the case of a deposition subpoena addressed to a party, no witness fees or mileage need be paid. Fees for witnesses must be tendered in advance by any respondent requesting the issuance of a subpoena, except that fees and mileage need not be tendered in advance where the Enforcement Division is the party requesting the subpoena. The Bureau
must pay to witnesses subpoenaed for testimony or depositions on behalf of the Enforcement Division the same fees for attendance and mileage as are paid in the United States district courts in proceedings in which the United States is a party, but the Bureau need not tender such fees in advance.
§ 1081.117
Bureau's right to conduct examination, collect information.
Nothing contained in this part limits in any manner the right of the Bureau to conduct any examination, inspection, or visitation of any person, to conduct or continue any form of investigation authorized by law, to collect information in order to monitor the market for risks to consumers in the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services, or to otherwise gather information in accordance with law.
§ 1081.118
Collateral attacks on adjudication proceedings.
Unless a court of competent jurisdiction, or the Director for good cause, so directs, if an interlocutory appeal or collateral attack is brought in any court concerning all or any part of an adjudication proceeding, the challenged adjudication proceeding will continue without regard to the pendency of that court proceeding. No default or other failure to act as directed in the adjudication proceeding within the times prescribed in this part will be excused based on the pendency before any court of any interlocutory appeal or collateral attack.
§ 1081.119
Confidential information; protective orders.
(a)
Rights of third parties.
Any party that intends to disclose information obtained from a third party that is subject to a claim of confidentiality must provide notice to the third party at least seven days prior to the proposed disclosure of such information. In response to such notice, the third party may consent to the disclosure of such information, which may be conditioned on the entry of an appropriate protective order, or may intervene in the proceeding for the limited purpose of moving for a protective order pursuant to this section. Any written filing by a party that contains such confidential information must be accompanied by a certification that proper notice was provided. The act of making any oral motion or oral argument by any counsel or party which contains such confidential information constitutes a certification that proper notice was provided. A third party wishing to intervene for purposes of protecting its confidential information may file a single motion, in conformity with all applicable rules, setting forth the basis of both the third party's right to intervene and the basis for the protective order, in conformity with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Procedure.
In any adjudication proceeding, a party, including a third party who has intervened pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, may file a motion requesting a protective order to limit from disclosure to other parties or to the public documents or testimony that contain confidential information. The motion should include a general summary or extract of the documents or testimony without revealing confidential details, and a copy of the proposed protective order. A motion for confidential treatment of documents should be filed in accordance with § 1081.112(f), and all other applicable rules of this chapter.
(c)
Basis for issuance.
Documents and testimony introduced in a public hearing, or filed in connection with an adjudication proceeding, are presumed to be public. A motion for a protective order will be granted:
(1) Upon a finding that public disclosure will likely result in a clearly defined, serious injury to the party or third party requesting confidential treatment;
(2) After finding that the material constitutes sensitive personal information, as defined in § 1081.112(e);
(3) If all parties, including third parties to the extent their information is at issue, stipulate to the entry of a protective order; or
(4) Where public disclosure is prohibited by law.
(d)
Requests for additional information supporting confidentiality.
The hearing officer may require a movant under paragraph (b) of this section to furnish
in writing additional information with respect to the grounds for confidentiality. Failure to supply the information so requested within seven days from the date of receipt by the movant of a notice of the information required will be deemed a waiver of the objection to public disclosure of that portion of the documents to which the additional information relates, unless the hearing officer otherwise orders for good cause shown at or before the expiration of such seven-day period.
(e)
Confidentiality of documents pending decision.
Pending a determination of a motion under this section, the documents as to which confidential treatment is sought and any other documents that would reveal the confidential information in those documents will be maintained under seal and may be disclosed only in accordance with orders of the hearing officer. Any order issued in connection with a motion under this section will be public unless the order would disclose information as to which a protective order has been granted, in which case that portion of the order that would reveal the protected information will be nonpublic.
§ 1081.120
Settlement.
(a)
Availability.
Any respondent in an adjudication proceeding instituted under this part, may, at any time, propose in writing an offer of settlement.
(b)
Procedure.
An offer of settlement must state that it is made pursuant to this section; must recite or incorporate as a part of the offer the provisions of paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section; must be signed by the person making the offer, not by counsel; and must be submitted to enforcement counsel.
(c)
Consideration of offers of settlement.
(1) Offers of settlement will be considered when time, the nature of the proceedings, and the public interest permit.
(2) Any settlement offer will be presented to the Director with a recommendation, except that, if the recommendation is unfavorable, the offer will not be presented to the Director unless the person making the offer so requests.
(3) By submitting an offer of settlement, the person making the offer waives, subject to acceptance of the offer:
(i) All hearings pursuant to the statutory provisions under which the proceeding has been instituted;
(ii) The filing of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(iii) Proceedings before, and preliminary findings and conclusions by, a hearing officer;
(iv) All post-hearing procedures;
(v) Judicial review by any court; and
(vi) Any objection to the jurisdiction of the Bureau under section 1053 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563).
(4) By submitting an offer of settlement the person further waives:
(i) Such provisions of this part or other requirements of law as may be construed to prevent any Bureau employee from participating in the preparation of, or advising the Director as to, any order, opinion, finding of fact, or conclusion of law to be entered pursuant to the offer; and
(ii) Any right to claim bias or prejudgment by the Director based on the consideration of or discussions concerning settlement of all or any part of the proceeding.
(5) If the Director rejects the offer of settlement, the person making the offer will be notified of the Director's action and the offer of settlement will be deemed withdrawn. The rejected offer will not constitute a part of the record in any proceeding against the person making the offer, provided, however, that rejection of an offer of settlement does not affect the continued validity of waivers pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section with respect to any discussions concerning the rejected offer of settlement.
(d)
Consent orders.
If the Director accepts the offer of settlement, all terms and conditions of a settlement entered into under this section will be recorded in a written stipulation signed by each settling respondent, and a consent order concluding the proceeding as to the settling respondents. The stipulation and consent order must be filed pursuant to § 1081.111, and must recite or incorporate as a part of the stipulation the provisions of paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section. The Director will then issue a consent order, which
will be a final order concluding the proceeding as to the settling respondents.
§ 1081.121
Cooperation with other agencies.
It is the policy of the Bureau to cooperate with other governmental agencies to avoid unnecessary overlap or duplication of regulatory functions.

# Subpart B—Initiation of Proceedings and Prehearing Rules
§ 1081.200
Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice of charges.
(a)
Commencement of proceeding.
A proceeding governed by subparts A through D of this part is commenced when the Bureau, through the Enforcement Division, files a notice of charges in accordance with § 1081.111. The notice of charges must be served by the Enforcement Division upon the respondent in accordance with § 1081.113(d)(1).
(b)
Contents of a notice of charges.
The notice of charges must set forth:
(1) The legal authority for the proceeding and for the Bureau's jurisdiction over the proceeding;
(2) A statement of the matters of fact and law showing that the Bureau is entitled to relief;
(3) A proposed order or request for an order granting the relief sought;
(4) The time and place of the hearing as required by law or regulation;
(5) The time within which to file an answer as required by law or regulation;
(6) That the answer must be filed and served in accordance with subpart A of this part; and
(7) The docket number for the adjudication proceeding.
(c)
Publication of notice of charges.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Director, the notice of charges will be given general circulation by release to the public, by publication on the Bureau's website and, where directed by the hearing officer or the Director, by publication in the
Federal Register.
The Bureau may publish any notice of charges after 14 days from the date of service except if there is a pending motion for a protective order filed pursuant to § 1081.119.
(d)
Commencement of proceeding through a consent order.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, where the parties agree to settlement before the filing of a notice of charges, a proceeding may be commenced by filing a stipulation and consent order. The stipulation and consent order must be filed pursuant to § 1081.111. The stipulation must contain the information required under § 1081.120(d), and the consent order must contain the information required under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. The proceeding will be concluded upon issuance of the consent order by the Director.
(e)
Voluntary dismissal
—(1)
Without an order.
The Enforcement Division may voluntarily dismiss an adjudication proceeding without an order entered by a hearing officer by filing either:
(i) A notice of dismissal before the respondent(s) serves an answer; or
(ii) A stipulation of dismissal signed by all parties who have appeared.
(2)
Effect.
Unless the notice or stipulation states otherwise, the dismissal is without prejudice, and does not operate as an adjudication on the merits.
§ 1081.201
Answer and disclosure statement and notification of financial interest.
(a)
Time to file answer.
Within 14 days of service of the notice of charges, respondent must file an answer as designated in the notice of charges.
(b)
Content of answer.
An answer must specifically respond to each paragraph or allegation of fact contained in the notice of charges and must admit, deny, or state that the party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation of fact. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation of fact denied; general denials are not permitted. When a respondent denies part of an allegation, that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation of fact in the notice of charges which is not denied in the answer is deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. A respondent is not required to respond to the portion of a
notice of charges that constitutes the request for relief or proposed order. A respondent must affirmatively state in the answer any avoidance or affirmative defense, including but not limited to res judicata and statute of limitations. Failure to do so will be deemed a waiver.
(c)
If the allegations of the notice of charges are admitted.
If the respondent elects not to contest the allegations of fact set forth in the notice of charges, the answer will consist of a statement that the respondent admits all the material allegations to be true. Such an answer constitutes a waiver of hearings as to the facts alleged in the notice of charges, and together with the notice of charges will provide a record basis on which the hearing officer will issue preliminary findings and conclusions, containing appropriate findings and conclusions and a proposed order disposing of the proceeding. In such an answer, the respondent may, however, reserve the right to submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law under § 1081.305.
(d)
Default.
(1) Failure of a respondent to file an answer within the time provided will be deemed to constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the allegations of the notice of charges and to authorize the hearing officer, without further notice to the respondent, to find the facts to be as alleged in the notice of charges and to enter preliminary findings and conclusions containing appropriate findings and conclusions. In such cases, respondent will have no right to appeal pursuant to § 1081.402, but must instead proceed pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) A motion to set aside a default must be made within a reasonable time, state the reasons for the failure to appear or defend, and specify the nature of the proposed defense in the proceeding. In order to prevent injustice and on such conditions as may be appropriate, the hearing officer, at any time prior to the filing of the preliminary findings and conclusions, or the Director, at any time, may for good cause shown set aside a default.
(e)
Disclosure statement and notification of financial interest
—(1)
Who must file; contents.
A respondent, nongovernmental intervenor, or nongovernmental amicus must file a disclosure statement and notification of financial interest that:
(i) Identifies any parent corporation, any publicly owned corporation owning ten percent or more of its stock, and any publicly owned corporation not a party to the proceeding that has a financial interest in the outcome of the proceeding and the nature of that interest; or
(ii) States that there are no such corporations.
(2)
Time for filing; supplemental filing.
A respondent, nongovernmental intervenor, or nongovernmental amicus must:
(i) File the disclosure statement with its first appearance, pleading, motion, response, or other request addressed to the hearing officer or the Bureau; and
(ii) Promptly file a supplemental statement if any required information changes.
§ 1081.202
Amended pleadings
(a)
Amendments before the hearing.
The notice of charges, answer, or any other pleading may be amended or supplemented only with the opposing party's written consent or leave of the hearing officer. The respondent must answer an amended notice of charges within the time remaining for the respondent's answer to the original notice of charges, or within 14 days after service of the amended notice of charges, whichever is later, unless the hearing officer orders otherwise for good cause.
(b)
Amendments to conform to the evidence.
When issues not raised in the notice of charges or answer are tried at the hearing by express or implied consent of the parties, they will be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the notice of charges or answer, and no formal amendments are required. If evidence is objected to at the hearing on the ground that it is not within the issues raised by the notice of charges or answer, the hearing officer may admit the evidence when admission is likely to assist in adjudicating the merits of the action and the objecting party fails to satisfy the hearing officer that the admission of such evidence would unfairly prejudice that party's action or defense upon the
merits. The hearing officer may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to meet such evidence.
§ 1081.203
Scheduling conference.
(a)
Meeting of the parties before scheduling conference.
As early as practicable before the scheduling conference described in paragraph (e) of this section, counsel for the parties must meet to discuss the nature and basis of their claims and defenses and the possibilities for a prompt settlement or resolution of the case. The parties must also discuss and agree, if possible, on the matters set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Scheduling conference disclosure.
After the meeting required in paragraph (a) of this section and at least seven days prior to the scheduling conference described in paragraph (e) of this section, the parties must exchange a scheduling conference disclosure, which must be signed by the party or by the party's attorney if one has appeared on behalf of the party. The scheduling conference disclosure must include:
(1) A factual summary of the case, a summary of all factual and legal issues in dispute, and a summary of all factual and legal bases supporting each defense; and
(2) The following information about the evidence that the party may present at the hearing other than solely for impeachment:
(i) The name, address, and telephone number of each witness, together with a summary of the witness's anticipated testimony; and
(ii) An identification of each document or other exhibit, including summaries of other evidence, along with a copy of each document or exhibit identified unless the document or exhibit has already been produced to the other party.
(c)
Duty to supplement.
A party must supplement or correct the scheduling conference disclosure in a timely manner if the party acquires other information that it intends to rely upon at a hearing.
(d)
Failure to disclose—harmless error.
In the event that information required to be disclosed in the scheduling conference disclosure is not disclosed, no rehearing or redecision of a proceeding already heard or decided will be required unless the other party establishes that the failure to disclose was not harmless error.
(e)
Scheduling conference.
Within 21 days of service of the notice of charges or such other time as the parties and hearing officer may agree, counsel for all parties must appear before the hearing officer in person at a specified time and place or by electronic means for the purpose of scheduling the course and conduct of the proceeding. This meeting is called a
scheduling conference.
At the scheduling conference, counsel for the parties must be prepared to address:
(1) Determination of the dates and location of the hearing, including, in proceedings under section 1053(b) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563(b)), whether the hearing should commence later than 60 days after service of the notice of charges, considering, among other factors, whether the respondent intends to file a dispositive motion or to seek the issuance of subpoenas;
(2) Simplification and clarification of the issues;
(3) Amendments to pleadings;
(4) Settlement of any or all issues;
(5) Production of documents as set forth in § 1081.206 and of witness statements as set forth in § 1081.207, and prehearing production of documents in response to subpoenas
duces tecum
as set forth in § 1081.208;
(6) Whether the parties intend to file dispositive motions;
(7) Whether the parties intend to seek the issuance of subpoenas, the identity of any anticipated deponents or subpoena recipients, and a schedule for completing that discovery;
(8) A schedule for the exchange of expert reports and the taking of expert depositions, if any; and
(9) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly disposition of the proceeding.
(f)
Transcript.
The hearing officer may require that a scheduling conference be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the conference and any
materials filed, including orders, becomes part of the record of the proceeding. A party may obtain a copy of the transcript at that party's expense.
(g)
Scheduling order.
At or within seven days following the conclusion of the scheduling conference, the hearing officer will serve on each party an order setting forth the date and location of the hearing and any agreements reached and any procedural determinations made.
(h)
Failure to appear, default.
Any person who is named in a notice of charges as a person against whom findings may be made or sanctions imposed and who fails to appear, in person or through counsel, at a scheduling conference of which the person has been duly notified may be deemed in default pursuant to § 1081.201(d)(1). A party may make a motion to set aside a default pursuant to § 1081.201(d)(2).
(i)
Public access.
The scheduling conference will be public unless the hearing officer determines, based on the standard set forth in § 1081.119(c), that the conference (or any part thereof) should be closed to the public.
§ 1081.204
Consolidation, severance, or bifurcation of proceedings.
(a)
Consolidation.
(1) On the motion of any party, or on the hearing officer's own motion, the hearing officer may consolidate, for some or all purposes, any two or more proceedings, if each such proceeding involves or arises out of the same transaction, occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences, or involves at least one common respondent or a material common question of law or fact, unless such consolidation would cause unreasonable delay or injustice.
(2) In the event of consolidation under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, appropriate adjustment to the prehearing schedule may be made to avoid unnecessary expense, inconvenience, or delay.
(b)
Severance.
The hearing officer may, upon the motion of any party, sever the proceeding for separate resolution of the matter as to any respondent only if the hearing officer finds that:
(1) Undue prejudice or injustice to the moving party would result from not severing the proceeding; and
(2) Such undue prejudice or injustice would outweigh the interests of judicial economy and expedition in the complete and final resolution of the proceeding.
(c)
Bifurcation.
The Director may order that the proceeding be divided into two or more stages, if the Director determines that it would promote efficiency in the proceeding or for other good cause. For example, the Director may order that the proceeding have two stages, so that at the conclusion of the first stage the Director issues a decision on whether there have been violations of law and at the conclusion of the second stage the Director issues a final decision and order, including with respect to any remedies. The Director may make an order under this paragraph (c) either on the motion of a party or on the Director's own motion after inviting submissions by the parties. The Director may include, in that order or in later orders, modifications to the procedures in this part in order to effectuate an efficient division into stages, or the Director may assign such authority to the hearing officer. Only the decision and order of the Director after the final stage, and not a decision of the Director after an earlier stage, will be a final decision and order for purposes of §§ 1081.110, 1081.405(d) and (e), 1081.407, and 1081.502 and section 1053(b) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563(b)).
§ 1081.205
Non-dispositive motions.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to all motions except motions to dismiss and motions for summary disposition. A non-dispositive motion filed pursuant to another section of this part must comply with any specific requirements of that section and this section to the extent the requirements in this section are not inconsistent.
(b)
In writing.
(1) Unless made during a hearing or conference, an application or request for an order or ruling must be made by written motion.
(2) All written motions must state with particularity the relief sought and must be accompanied by a proposed order.
(3) No oral argument may be held on written motions except as otherwise directed by the hearing officer. Written memoranda, briefs, affidavits or other relevant material or documents may be filed in support of or in opposition to a motion.
(c)
Oral motions.
The Director or the hearing officer, as appropriate, may order that an oral motion be submitted in writing.
(d)
Responses and replies.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, within 14 days after service of any written motion, or within such other period of time as may be established by the hearing officer or the Director, as appropriate, any party may file a written response to a motion. The hearing officer will not rule on any oral or written motion before each party has had an opportunity to file a response.
(2) Reply briefs, if any, may be filed within seven days after service of the response.
(3) The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record is deemed consent by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of the order accompanying the motion.
(e)
Length limitations.
No motion subject to this section (together with the brief in support of the motion) or brief in response to the motion may exceed 15 pages in length, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions or rules, and exhibits. No reply brief may exceed six pages in length, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions or rules, and exhibits. Motions for leave to file motions and briefs in excess of these limitations are disfavored.
(f)
Meet and confer requirements.
Each motion filed under this section must be accompanied by a signed statement representing that counsel for the moving party has conferred or made a good faith effort to confer with opposing counsel in a good faith effort to resolve by agreement the issues raised by the motion and has been unable to reach such an agreement. If some of the matters in controversy have been resolved by agreement, the statement must specify the matters so resolved and the matters remaining unresolved.
(g)
Ruling on non-dispositive motions.
Unless otherwise provided by a relevant section of this part, a hearing officer will rule on non-dispositive motions. Such ruling must be issued within 14 days after the expiration of the time period allowed for the filing of all motion papers authorized by this section. The Director, for good cause, may extend the time allowed for a ruling.
(h)
Proceedings not stayed.
A motion under consideration by the Director or the hearing officer does not stay proceedings before the hearing officer unless the Director or the hearing officer, as appropriate, so orders.
(i)
Dilatory motions.
Frivolous, dilatory, or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.
§ 1081.206
Availability of documents for inspection and copying.
For purposes of this section, the term
documents
includes any book, document, record, report, memorandum, paper, communication, tabulation, chart, logs, electronic files, or other data or data compilations stored in any medium.
(a)
Documents to be available for inspection and copying.
(1) Unless otherwise provided by this section, or by order of the hearing officer, the Enforcement Division will make available for inspection and copying by any respondent documents obtained by the Enforcement Division prior to the institution of proceedings, from persons not employed by the Bureau, in connection with the investigation leading to the institution of proceedings. Such documents will include:
(i) Any documents turned over in response to civil investigative demands or other written requests to provide documents or to be interviewed issued by the Enforcement Division;
(ii) All transcripts and transcript exhibits; and
(iii) Any other documents obtained from persons not employed by the Bureau.
(2) In addition, the Enforcement Division will make available for inspection and copying by any respondent:
(i) Each civil investigative demand or other written request to provide documents or to be interviewed issued by the Enforcement Division in connection with the investigation leading to the institution of proceedings; and
(ii) Any final examination or inspection reports prepared by any other Office of the Bureau if the Enforcement Division either intends to introduce any such report into evidence or to use any such report to refresh the recollection of, or impeach, any witness.
(3) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section limits the right of the Enforcement Division to make available any other document, or limits the right of a party to seek access to or production pursuant to subpoena of any other document, or limits the authority of the hearing officer to order the production of any document pursuant to subpoena.
(4) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section requires the Enforcement Division to produce a final examination or inspection report prepared by any other Office of the Bureau or any other government agency to a respondent who is not the subject of that report.
(b)
Documents that may be withheld.
(1) The Enforcement Division may withhold a document if:
(i) The document is privileged;
(ii) The document is an internal memorandum, note, or writing prepared by a person employed by the Bureau or another Government agency, other than an examination or supervision report as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, or would otherwise be subject to the work product doctrine and will not be offered in evidence;
(iii) The document was obtained from a domestic or foreign governmental entity and is either not relevant to the resolution of the proceeding or was provided on condition that the information not be disclosed;
(iv) The document would disclose the identity of a confidential source;
(v) Applicable law prohibits the disclosure of the document;
(vi) The document reflects only settlement negotiations between the Enforcement Division and a person or entity who is not a current respondent in the proceeding; or
(vii) The hearing officer grants leave to withhold a document or category of documents as not relevant to the subject matter of the proceeding or otherwise, for good cause shown.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (b)(1) of this section authorizes the Enforcement Division in connection with an adjudication proceeding to withhold material exculpatory evidence in the possession of the Office that would otherwise be required to be produced pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Withheld document list.
The hearing officer may require the Enforcement Division to produce a list of documents or categories of documents withheld pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section or to submit to the hearing officer any document withheld, except for any documents that are being withheld pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, in which case the Enforcement Division must inform the other parties of the fact that such documents are being withheld, but no further disclosures regarding those documents will be required. The hearing officer may determine whether any withheld document should be made available for inspection and copying. When similar documents are withheld pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section, those documents may be identified by category instead of by individual document. The hearing officer retains discretion to determine when an identification by category is insufficient.
(d)
Timing of inspection and copying.
Unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer, the Enforcement Division must commence making documents available to a respondent for inspection and copying pursuant to this section no later than 14 days after service of the notice of charges.
(e)
Place of inspection and copying.
Documents subject to inspection and copying pursuant to this section will be made available to the respondent for inspection and copying at the Bureau office where they are ordinarily maintained, or at such other place as the parties, in writing, may agree. A respondent will not be given custody of
the documents or leave to remove the documents from the Bureau's offices pursuant to the requirements of this section other than by written agreement of the Enforcement Division. Such agreement must specify the documents subject to the agreement, the date they must be returned, and such other terms or conditions as are appropriate to provide for the safekeeping of the documents. If the Enforcement Division determines that production of some or all the documents required to be produced under this section can be produced in an electronic format, the Enforcement Division may instead produce the documents in an electronic format.
(f)
Copying costs and procedures.
The respondent may obtain a photocopy of any documents made available for inspection or, at the discretion of the Enforcement Division, electronic copies of such documents. The respondent is responsible for the cost of photocopying. Unless otherwise ordered, charges for copies made by the Enforcement Division at the request of the respondent will be at the rate charged pursuant to part 1070 of this chapter. The respondent will be given access to the documents at the Bureau's offices or such other place as the parties may agree during normal business hours for copying of documents at the respondent's expense.
(g)
Duty to supplement.
If the Enforcement Division acquires information that it intends to rely upon at a hearing after making its disclosures under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Enforcement Division must supplement its disclosures to include such information.
(h)
Failure to make documents available—harmless error.
In the event that a document required to be made available to a respondent pursuant to this section is not made available by the Enforcement Division, no rehearing or redecision of a proceeding already heard or decided will be required unless the respondent establishes that the failure to make the document available was not harmless error.
(i)
Disclosure of privileged or protected information or communications; scope of waiver; obligations of receiving party.
(1) The disclosure of privileged or protected information or communications by any party during an adjudication proceeding does not operate as a waiver if:
(i) The disclosure was inadvertent;
(ii) The holder of the privilege or protection took reasonable steps to prevent disclosure; and
(iii) The holder promptly took reasonable steps to rectify the error, including notifying any party that received the information or communication of the claim and the basis for it.
(2) After being notified, the receiving party must promptly return, sequester, or destroy the specified information and any copies it has; must not use or disclose the information until the claim is resolved; must take reasonable steps to retrieve the information if the party disclosed it before being notified; and may promptly present the information to the hearing officer under seal for a determination of the claim. The producing party must preserve the information until the claim is resolved.
(3) The disclosure of privileged or protected information or communications by any party during an adjudication proceeding will waive the privilege or protection, with respect to other parties to the proceeding, as to undisclosed information or communications only if:
(i) The waiver is intentional;
(ii) The disclosed and undisclosed information or communications concern the same subject matter; and
(iii) They ought in fairness to be considered together.
§ 1081.207
Production of witness statements.
(a)
Availability.
Any respondent may move that the Enforcement Division produce for inspection and copying any statement of any person called or to be called as a witness by the Enforcement Division that pertains, or is expected to pertain, to the witness's direct testimony and that would be required to be produced pursuant to the Jencks Act, 18 U.S.C. 3500, if the adjudication proceeding were a criminal proceeding. For purposes of this section, the term “statement” has the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 3500(e). Such production will be made at a time and place fixed by the hearing officer and will be made
available to any party, provided, however, that the production must be made under conditions intended to preserve the items to be inspected or copied.
(b)
Failure to produce—harmless error.
In the event that a statement required to be made available to a respondent pursuant to this section is not made available by the Enforcement Division, no rehearing or redecision of a proceeding already heard or decided will be required unless the respondent establishes that the failure to make the statement available was not harmless error.
§ 1081.208
Subpoenas.
(a)
Availability.
In connection with any hearing ordered by the hearing officer or any deposition permitted under § 1081.209, a party may request the issuance of subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses at such depositions or at the designated time and place of the hearing, or the production of documentary or other tangible evidence returnable at any designated time or place.
(b)
Procedure.
Unless made on the record at a hearing, requests for issuance of a subpoena must be made in writing, and filed and served on each party pursuant to subpart A of this part. The request must contain a proposed subpoena and a brief statement showing the general relevance and reasonableness of the scope of testimony or documents sought.
(c)
Signing may be delegated.
A hearing officer may authorize issuance of a subpoena, and may delegate the manual signing of the subpoena to any other person.
(d)
Standards for issuance of subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses at the hearing or the production of documentary or other tangible evidence.
The hearing officer will promptly issue any subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses at the designated time and place of the hearing or the production of documentary or other tangible evidence. Where it appears to the hearing officer that the subpoena sought may be unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, the hearing officer may, as a condition precedent to the issuance of the subpoena, require the person seeking the subpoena to show further the general relevance and reasonable scope of the testimony or other evidence sought. If after consideration of all the circumstances, the hearing officer determines that the subpoena or any of its terms is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, the hearing officer may refuse to issue the subpoena, or issue it only upon such conditions as fairness requires. In making the foregoing determination, the hearing officer may inquire of the other parties whether they will stipulate to the facts sought to be proved.
(e)
Standards for issuance of subpoenas requiring the deposition of a witness pursuant to § 1081.209.
(1) The hearing officer will promptly issue any subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses at a deposition only if the subpoena complies with § 1081.209 and if:
(i) The proposed deponent is a witness identified in the other party's scheduling conference disclosure under § 1081.203(b);
(ii) The proposed deponent was a witness of or participant in any event, transaction, occurrence, act, or omission that forms the basis for any claim asserted by the Enforcement Division, any defense, or anything else required to be included in an answer pursuant to § 1081.201(b), by any respondent in the proceeding (this excludes a proposed deponent whose only knowledge of these matters arises from the Bureau's investigation, the Bureau's examination, or the proceeding);
(iii) The proposed deponent is designated as an “expert witness” under § 1081.210(b); provided, however, that the deposition of an expert who is required to submit a written report under § 1081.210(b) may only occur after such report is served;
(iv) The proposed deponent has custody of documents or electronic data relevant to the claims or defenses of any party (this excludes officers or personnel of the Bureau who have custody of documents or data that was produced by the Enforcement Division to the respondent); or
(v) The proposed deponent is unavailable for the hearing as set forth in § 1081.209(c).
(2) Where it appears to the hearing officer that the subpoena sought may be unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, the hearing officer may, as a condition precedent to the issuance of the subpoena, require the person seeking the subpoena to show further the general relevance and reasonable scope of the testimony or other evidence sought. If after consideration of all the circumstances, the hearing officer determines that the subpoena or any of its terms is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, the hearing officer may refuse to issue the subpoena, or issue it only upon such conditions as fairness requires. In making the foregoing determination, the hearing officer may inquire of the other parties whether they will stipulate to the facts sought to be proved.
(f)
Service.
Upon issuance by the hearing officer, the party making the request will serve the subpoena on the person named in the subpoena and on each party in accordance with § 1081.113(c). Subpoenas may be served in any State, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any State, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or as otherwise permitted by law.
(g)
Tender of fees required.
When a subpoena compelling the attendance of a person at a hearing or a deposition is issued at the request of anyone other than an officer or agency of the United States, service is valid only if the subpoena is accompanied by a tender to the subpoenaed person of the fees for one day's attendance and mileage specified by § 1081.116.
(h)
Place of compliance.
A subpoena for a deposition may command a person to attend a deposition only as follows:
(1) Within 100 miles of where the person resides, is employed, or regularly transacts business in person;
(2) Within the State where the person resides, is employed, or regularly transacts business in person, if the person is a party or a party's officer;
(3) At such other location that the parties and proposed deponent stipulate; or
(4) At such other location that the hearing officer determines is appropriate.
(i)
Production of documentary material.
Production of documentary material in response to a subpoena must be made under a sworn certificate, in such form as the subpoena designates, by the person to whom the subpoena is directed or, if not a natural person, by any person having knowledge of the facts and circumstances relating to such production, to the effect that all of the documentary material required by the subpoena and in the possession, custody, or control of the person to whom the subpoena is directed has been produced and made available to the custodian.
(j)
Motion to quash or modify
—(1)
Procedure.
Any person to whom a subpoena is directed, or who is an owner, creator, or the subject of the documents that are to be produced pursuant to a subpoena, or any party may, prior to the time specified therein for compliance, but in no event more than seven days after the date of service of such subpoena, move that the subpoena be quashed or modified. Such motion must be filed and served on all parties pursuant to subpart A of this part. Notwithstanding § 1081.205, the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued or enforcement counsel may, within seven days of service of the motion, file a response to the motion. Reply briefs are not permitted unless requested by the hearing officer. Filing a motion to modify a subpoena does not stay the movant's obligation to comply with those portions of the subpoena that the person has not sought to modify.
(2)
Standards governing motion to quash or modify.
If compliance with the subpoena would be unreasonable, oppressive, or unduly burdensome, the hearing officer must quash or modify the subpoena, or may order return of the subpoena only upon specified conditions. These conditions may include but are not limited to a requirement that the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued make reasonable compensation to the person to whom the subpoena was addressed for the
cost of copying or transporting evidence to the place for return of the subpoena.
(k)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this part or any order of the hearing officer which directs compliance with all or any portion of a subpoena, the Bureau's General Counsel may, on its own motion or at the request of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, apply to an appropriate United States district court, in the name of the Bureau but on relation of such party, for an order requiring compliance with so much of the subpoena as the hearing officer has not quashed or modified, unless, in the judgment of the General Counsel, the enforcement of such subpoena would be inconsistent with law and the policies of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010. Failure to request that the Bureau's General Counsel seek enforcement of a subpoena constitutes a waiver of any claim of prejudice predicated upon the unavailability of the testimony or evidence sought.
(l)
Relationship to scheduling of hearing.
The parties must disclose at the scheduling conference required under § 1081.203(e) whether they intend to request the issuance of subpoenas under § 1081.209. A respondent's request for issuance of a subpoena constitutes a request that the hearing not be held until after a reasonable period, determined by the hearing officer, for the completion of discovery. The hearing officer will decide whether to grant such a request. If the request is granted, the hearing officer will set a deadline for the completion of discovery and schedule the specific date of the hearing, in consultation with the parties. This paragraph (l) does not apply to a subpoena for the attendance and testimony of a witness at the hearing or a subpoena to depose a witness unavailable for the hearing.
§ 1081.209
Depositions.
(a)
Depositions by oral examination or by written questions.
Depositions by oral examination or by written questions may be taken as set forth in this section and must be taken pursuant to subpoena issued under § 1081.208. Any deposition permitted under this section may be taken and submitted on written questions upon motion of any party, for good cause shown, or as stipulated by the parties. No other depositions will be permitted except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1) If the proceeding involves a single respondent, the respondent may depose no more than three persons, and the Enforcement Division may depose no more than three persons.
(2) If the proceeding involves multiple respondents, the respondents collectively may depose no more than five persons, and the Enforcement Division may depose no more than five persons. The depositions taken under this paragraph (a)(2) cannot exceed a total of five depositions for the Enforcement Division, and five depositions for all respondents collectively.
(3) Any side may file a motion with the hearing officer seeking leave to take up to two additional depositions beyond those permitted pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(i)
Procedure.
(A) A motion for additional depositions must be filed no later than 28 days prior to the hearing date. If the moving side proposes to take the additional deposition(s) by written questions, the motion must so state and include the proposed questions. Any party opposing the motion may submit an opposition within seven days after service of the motion. No reply will be permitted. The motion and any oppositions each must not exceed seven pages in length.
(B) Upon consideration of the motion and any opposing papers, the hearing officer will issue an order either granting or denying the motion. The hearing officer will consider the motion on an expedited basis.
(ii)
Grounds and standards for motion.
A motion under paragraph (a)(3) of this section will not be granted unless the additional depositions satisfy § 1081.208(d) and the moving side demonstrates a compelling need for the additional depositions by:
(A) Identifying all witnesses the moving side plans to depose under this section;
(B) Describing the role of all witnesses;
(C) Describing the matters concerning which all witnesses are expected to be questioned, and why the deposition of all witnesses is necessary for the moving side's arguments, claims, or defenses; and
(D) Showing that the additional deposition(s) requested will not be unreasonably cumulative or duplicative.
(b)
Additional procedure for depositions by written questions.
(1) Any motion or stipulation seeking a deposition of a witness by written questions must include the written questions the party seeking the deposition will ask the witness. Within seven days after service of the motion and written questions, any party may file objections to such written questions and any party may file cross-questions. When a deposition is taken by written questions, no persons other than the witness, counsel to the witness, the deposition officer, and, if the deposition officer does not act as reporter, a reporter, may be present at the examination of the witness. No party may be present or represented unless otherwise permitted by order. The deposition officer will propound the questions and cross-questions to the witness in the order submitted.
(2) The order for deposition, filing of the deposition, form of the deposition, and use of the deposition in the record will be governed by paragraphs (d) through (l) of this section, except that no cross-examination will be made.
(c)
Depositions when witness is unavailable.
In addition to depositions permitted under paragraph (a) of this section, the hearing officer may grant a party's request for issuance of a subpoena if the requesting party shows that the prospective witness will likely give testimony material to the proceeding; that it is likely the prospective witness, who is then within the United States, will be unable to attend or testify at the hearing because of age, sickness, infirmity, imprisonment, other disability, or absence from the United States, unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party requesting the deposition; and that the taking of a deposition will serve the interests of justice.
(d)
Service and contents of notice.
Upon issuance of a subpoena for a deposition, the party taking the deposition must serve a notice on each party pursuant to § 1081.113. A notice of deposition must state that the deposition will be taken before a deposition officer authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the deposition is to be held. A notice of deposition also must state:
(1) The name and address of the witness whose deposition is to be taken;
(2) The time and place of the deposition; and
(3) The manner of recording and preserving the deposition.
(e)
Method of recording
—(1)
Method stated in the notice.
The party who notices the deposition must state in the notice the method for recording the testimony. Unless the hearing officer orders otherwise, testimony may be recorded by audio, audiovisual, or stenographic means. The noticing party bears the recording costs. Any party may arrange to transcribe a deposition, at that party's expense. Each party will bear its own costs for obtaining copies of any transcripts or audio or audiovisual recordings.
(2)
Additional method.
With prior notice to the deponent and other parties, any party may designate another method for recording the testimony in addition to that specified in the original notice. That party bears the expense of the additional record or transcript unless the hearing officer orders otherwise.
(f)
By remote means.
The parties and the deponent may stipulate—or the hearing officer may on motion order—that a deposition be taken by telephone or other electronic means. For the purpose of this section, the deposition takes place where the deponent answers the questions.
(g)
Deposition officer's duties
—(1)
Before the deposition.
The deposition officer must begin the deposition with an on-the-record statement that includes:
(i) The deposition officer's name and business address;
(ii) The date, time, and place of the deposition;
(iii) The deponent's name;
(iv) The deposition officer's administration of the oath or affirmation to the deponent; and
(v) The identity of all persons present.
(2)
Conducting the deposition; avoiding distortion.
If the deposition is recorded non-stenographically, the deposition officer must repeat the items in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section at the beginning of each unit of the recording medium. The deponent's and attorneys' appearance or demeanor must not be distorted through recording techniques.
(3)
After the deposition.
At the end of a deposition, the deposition officer must state on the record that the deposition is complete and must set out any stipulations made by the attorneys about custody of the transcript or recording and of the exhibits, or about any other pertinent matters.
(h)
Order and record of the examination
—(1)
Order of examination.
The examination and cross-examination of a deponent will proceed as they would at the hearing. After putting the deponent under oath or affirmation, the deposition officer must record the testimony by the method designated under paragraph (e) of this section. The testimony must be recorded by the deposition officer personally or by a person acting in the presence and under the direction of the deposition officer. The witness being deposed may have counsel present during the deposition.
(2)
Form of objections stated during the deposition.
An objection at the time of the examination—whether to evidence, to a party's conduct, to the deposition officer's qualifications, to the manner of taking the deposition, or to any other aspect of the deposition—must be noted on the record, but the examination may still proceed and the testimony may be taken subject to any objection. An objection must be stated concisely in a nonargumentative and nonsuggestive manner. A person may instruct a deponent not to answer only when necessary to preserve a privilege, to enforce a limitation ordered by the hearing officer, or to present a motion to the hearing officer for a limitation on the questioning in the deposition.
(i)
Waiver of objections
—(1)
To the notice.
An objection to an error or irregularity in a deposition notice is waived unless promptly served in writing on the party giving the notice.
(2)
To the deposition officer's qualification.
An objection based on disqualification of the deposition officer before whom a deposition is to be taken is waived if not made:
(i) Before the deposition begins; or
(ii) Promptly after the basis for disqualification becomes known or, with reasonable diligence, could have been known.
(3)
To the taking of the deposition
—(i)
Objection to competence, relevance, or materiality.
An objection to a deponent's competence—or to the competence, relevance, or materiality of testimony—is not waived by a failure to make the objection before or during the deposition, unless the ground for it might have been corrected at that time.
(ii)
Objection to an error or irregularity.
An objection to an error or irregularity at an oral examination is waived if:
(A) It relates to the manner of taking the deposition, the form of a question or answer, the oath or affirmation, a party's conduct, or other matters that might have been corrected at that time; and
(B) It is not timely made during the deposition.
(4)
To completing and returning the deposition.
An objection to how the deposition officer transcribed the testimony—or prepared, signed, certified, sealed, endorsed, sent, or otherwise dealt with the deposition—is waived unless a motion to suppress is made promptly after the error or irregularity becomes known or, with reasonable diligence, could have been known.
(j)
Duration; cross-examination; motion to terminate or limit
—(1)
Duration.
Unless otherwise stipulated or ordered by the hearing officer, a deposition is limited to one day of seven hours, including cross-examination as provided in this paragraph (j)(1). In a deposition conducted by or for a respondent, the Enforcement Division will be allowed a reasonable amount of time for cross-examination of the deponent. In a deposition conducted by the Office, the respondents collectively will be allowed a reasonable amount of time for cross-examination of the deponent. The hearing officer may allow additional time if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the deponent, another person, or
any other circumstance impedes or delays the examination.
(2)
Motion to terminate or limit
—(i)
Grounds.
At any time during a deposition, the deponent or a party may move to terminate or limit it on the ground that it is being conducted in bad faith or in a manner that unreasonably annoys, embarrasses, or oppresses the deponent or party. If the objecting deponent or party so demands, the deposition must be suspended for the time necessary to present the motion to the hearing officer.
(ii)
Order.
Upon a motion under paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section, the hearing officer may order that the deposition be terminated or may limit its scope. If terminated, the deposition may be resumed only by order of the hearing officer.
(k)
Review by the witness; changes
—(1)
Review; statement of changes.
On request by the deponent or a party before the deposition is completed, and unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer, the deponent must be allowed 14 days after being notified by the deposition officer that the transcript or recording is available, unless a longer time is agreed to by the parties or permitted by the hearing officer, in which:
(i) To review the transcript or recording; and
(ii) If there are changes in form or substance, to sign a statement listing the changes and the reasons for making them.
(2)
Changes indicated in the deposition officer's certificate.
The deposition officer must note in the certificate prescribed by paragraph (l)(1) of this section whether a review was requested and, if so, must attach any changes the deponent makes during the 14-day period.
(l)
Certification and delivery; exhibits; copies of the transcript or recording
—(1)
Certification and delivery.
The deposition officer must certify in writing that the witness was duly sworn and that the deposition accurately records the witness's testimony. The certificate must accompany the record of the deposition. Unless the hearing officer orders otherwise, the deposition officer must seal the deposition in an envelope or package bearing the title of the action and marked “Deposition of [witness's name]” and must promptly send it to the attorney or party who arranged for the transcript or recording. The attorney or party must store it under conditions that will protect it against loss, destruction, tampering, or deterioration.
(2)
Documents and tangible things
—(i)
Originals and copies.
Documents and tangible things produced for inspection during a deposition must, on a party's request, be marked for identification and attached to the deposition. Any party may inspect and copy them. But if the person who produced them wants to keep the originals, the person may:
(A) Offer copies to be marked, attached to the deposition, and then used as originals—after giving all parties a fair opportunity to verify the copies by comparing them with the originals; or
(B) Give all parties a fair opportunity to inspect and copy the originals after they are marked—in which event the originals may be used as if attached to the deposition.
(ii)
Order regarding the originals.
Any party may move for an order that the originals be attached to the deposition pending final disposition of the case.
(3)
Copies of the transcript or recording.
Unless otherwise stipulated or ordered by the hearing officer, the deposition officer must retain the stenographic notes of a deposition taken stenographically or a copy of the recording of a deposition taken by another method. When paid reasonable charges, the deposition officer must furnish a copy of the transcript or recording to any party or the deponent, as directed by the party or person paying such charges.
(m)
Presentation of objections or disputes.
Any party or deponent seeking relief with respect to disputes over the conduct of a deposition may file a motion with the hearing officer to obtain relief as permitted by this part.
§ 1081.210
Expert discovery.
(a) At a date set by the hearing officer at the scheduling conference, each party must serve the other with a report prepared by each of its expert witnesses. Each party must serve the other parties with a list of any rebuttal expert witnesses and a rebuttal report
prepared by each such witness not later than 28 days after the deadline for service of expert reports, unless another date is set by the hearing officer. A rebuttal report must be limited to rebuttal of matters set forth in the expert report for which it is offered in rebuttal. If material outside the scope of fair rebuttal is presented, a party may file a motion not later than seven days after the deadline for service of rebuttal reports, seeking appropriate relief with the hearing officer, including striking all or part of the report, leave to submit a surrebuttal report by the party's own experts, or leave to call a surrebuttal witness and to submit a surrebuttal report by that witness.
(b) No party may call an expert witness at the hearing unless the expert witness has been listed and has provided reports as required by this section, unless otherwise directed by the hearing officer at a scheduling conference. Each side will be limited to calling at the hearing five expert witnesses, including any rebuttal or surrebuttal expert witnesses. A party may file a motion seeking leave to call additional expert witnesses due to extraordinary circumstances.
(c) Each report must be signed by the expert and contain a complete statement of all opinions to be expressed and the basis and reasons therefore; the data, materials, or other information considered by the witness in forming the opinions; any exhibits to be used as a summary of or support for the opinions; the qualifications of the witness, including a list of all publications authored or co-authored by the witness within the preceding ten years; the compensation to be paid for the study and testimony; and a listing of any other cases in which the witness has testified or sought to testify as an expert at trial or hearing, or by deposition within the preceding four years. A rebuttal or surrebuttal report need not include any information already included in the initial report of the witness.
(d) A party may depose any person who has been identified as an expert whose opinions may be presented at trial upon subpoena issued under § 1081.208. Unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer, a deposition of any expert witness will be conducted after the disclosure of a report prepared by the witness in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and at least seven days prior to the deadline for submission of rebuttal expert reports. A deposition of an expert witness must be completed no later than 14 days before the hearing unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer. No expert deposition will exceed seven hours on the record, absent agreement of the parties or an order of the hearing officer for good cause shown. Expert depositions will be conducted pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 1081.209(d) through (l).
(e) A party may not discover facts known or opinions held by an expert who has been retained or specifically employed by another party in anticipation of litigation or preparation for the hearing and who is not listed as a witness for the hearing. A party may not discover drafts of any report required by this section, regardless of the form in which the draft is recorded, or any communications between another party's attorney and any of that other party's experts, regardless of the form of the communications, except to the extent that the communications:
(1) Relate to compensation for the testifying expert's study or testimony;
(2) Identify facts or data that the other party's attorney provided and that the testifying expert considered in forming the opinions to be expressed; or
(3) Identify assumptions that the other party's attorney provided and that the testifying expert relied on in forming the opinions to be expressed.
(f) The hearing officer has the discretion to dispense with the requirement of expert discovery in appropriate cases.
§ 1081.211
Interlocutory review.
(a)
Availability.
The Director may, at any time, direct that any matter be submitted to the Director for review. Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, the hearing officer may, upon the hearing officer's motion or upon the motion of any party, certify any matter for interlocutory review by the Director. This section is the exclusive remedy for review of a hearing officer's
ruling or order prior to the Director's consideration of the entire proceeding.
(b)
Procedure.
Any party's motion for certification of a ruling or order for interlocutory review must be filed with the hearing officer within seven days of service of the ruling or order, must specify the ruling or order or parts thereof for which interlocutory review is sought, must attach any other portions of the record on which the moving party relies, and must otherwise comply with § 1081.205. Notwithstanding § 1081.205, any response to such a motion must be filed within seven days of service of the motion. The hearing officer must issue a ruling on the motion within seven days of the deadline for filing a response.
(c)
Certification process.
Unless the Director directs otherwise, a ruling or order may not be submitted to the Director for interlocutory review unless the hearing officer, upon the hearing officer's motion or upon the motion of a party, certifies the ruling or order in writing. The hearing officer will not certify a ruling or order unless:
(1) The ruling or order would compel testimony of Bureau officers or employees, or those from another governmental agency, or the production of documentary evidence in the custody of the Bureau or another governmental agency;
(2) The ruling or order involves a motion for disqualification of the hearing officer pursuant to § 1081.105(c)(2);
(3) The ruling or order suspended or barred an individual from appearing before the Bureau pursuant to § 1081.107(c); or
(4) Upon motion by a party, the hearing officer is of the opinion that:
(i) The ruling or order involves a controlling question of law as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion; and
(ii) An immediate review of the ruling or order is likely to materially advance the completion of the proceeding or subsequent review will be an inadequate remedy.
(d)
Interlocutory review.
A party whose motion for certification has been denied by the hearing officer may petition the Director for interlocutory review.
(e)
Director review.
The Director will determine whether or not to review a ruling or order certified under this section or the subject of a petition for interlocutory review. Interlocutory review is generally disfavored. The Director may decline to review a ruling or order certified by a hearing officer pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section or the petition of a party who has been denied certification if the Director determines that interlocutory review is not warranted or appropriate under the circumstances, in which case the Director may summarily deny the petition. If the Director determines to grant the review, the Director will review the matter and issue a ruling and order in an expeditious fashion, consistent with the Bureau's other responsibilities.
(f)
Proceedings not stayed.
The filing of a motion requesting that the hearing officer certify any of the hearing officer's prior rulings or orders for interlocutory review or a petition for interlocutory review filed with the Director, and the grant of any such review, will not stay proceedings before the hearing officer unless the hearing officer, or the Director, so orders. The Director will not consider a motion for a stay unless the motion was first been made to the hearing officer.
§ 1081.212
Dispositive motions.
(a)
Dispositive motions.
This section governs the filing of motions to dismiss and motions for summary disposition. The filing of any such motion does not obviate a party's obligation to file an answer or take any other action required by this part or by an order of the hearing officer, unless expressly so provided by the hearing officer.
(b)
Motions to dismiss.
A respondent may file a motion to dismiss asserting that, even assuming the truth of the facts alleged in the notice of charges, it is entitled to dismissal as a matter of law.
(c)
Motion for summary disposition.
A party may make a motion for summary disposition asserting that the undisputed pleaded facts, admissions, affidavits, stipulations, documentary evidence, matters as to which official notice may be taken, and any other evidentiary materials properly submitted
in connection with a motion for summary disposition show that:
(1) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and
(2) The moving party is entitled to a decision in the moving party's favor as a matter of law.
(d)
Filing of motions for summary disposition and responses.
(1) After a respondent's answer has been filed and documents have been made available to the respondent for inspection and copying pursuant to § 1081.206, any party may move for summary disposition in its favor of all or any part of the proceeding.
(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, investigatory depositions, transcripts, affidavits, and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support the moving party's position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention of the moving party. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which the opposing party contends a genuine dispute exists. Such opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as may be submitted in support of a motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.
(3) Any affidavit or declaration submitted in support of or in opposition to a motion for summary disposition must set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence, must show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein, and must be signed under oath and penalty of perjury.
(e)
Page limitations for dispositive motions.
A motion to dismiss or for summary disposition, together with any brief in support of the motion (exclusive of any declarations, affidavits, or attachments) may not exceed 35 pages in length. Motions for extensions of this length limitation are disfavored.
(f)
Opposition and reply response time and page limitation.
Any party, within 21 days after service of a dispositive motion, or within such period as allowed by the hearing officer, may file a response to such motion. The length limitations set forth in paragraph (e) of this section also apply to such responses. Any reply brief filed in response to an opposition to a dispositive motion must be filed within seven days after service of the opposition. Reply briefs may not exceed ten pages.
(g)
Relationship to scheduling of hearing.
A respondent's filing of a dispositive motion constitutes a request that the hearing not be held until after the motion is resolved. The hearing officer will decide whether to grant such a request. If the request is granted, the hearing officer will schedule the specific date of the hearing, in consultation with the parties.
§ 1081.213
Rulings on dispositive motions.
(a)
Ruling by Director or hearing officer.
The Director will rule on a dispositive motion, refer the motion to the hearing officer, or rule on the motion in part and refer it in part.
(b)
Timing of ruling.
If the Director rules on the motion, the Director must do so within 42 days following the expiration of the time for filing all responses and replies, unless there is good cause to extend the deadline. If the Director refers the motion to the hearing officer, the Director may set a deadline for the hearing officer to rule.
(c)
Oral argument.
At the request of any party or on the Director or hearing officer's own motion, the Director or hearing officer (as applicable) may hear oral argument on a dispositive motion.
(d)
Types of rulings
—(1)
Granting motion as to all claims and relief.
If the Director or hearing officer (as applicable) determines that dismissal or summary disposition is warranted as to all claims and relief, then (as applicable) the Director will issue a final decision and order or the hearing officer will issue preliminary findings and conclusions.
(2)
Granting motion as to some claims or relief.
If the Director or hearing officer (as applicable) determines that dismissal or summary disposition is warranted as to some issues, but not all claims and relief, the Director or hearing officer will issue an order that directs further proceedings. Where the dispositive motion is a motion for summary disposition, the order will specify the facts that appear without substantial controversy. The facts so specified are be deemed established.
(3)
Denial of motion.
If the Director or hearing officer (as applicable) determines that dismissal or summary disposition is not warranted, the Director or hearing officer may make a ruling denying the motion. If it appears that a party, for good cause shown, cannot present by affidavit, prior to hearing, facts essential to justify opposition to a motion for summary disposition, the Director or hearing officer must deny or defer the motion, or do so in relevant part.
§ 1081.214
Prehearing conferences.
(a)
Prehearing conferences.
The hearing officer may, in addition to the scheduling conference, upon the hearing officer's motion or at the request of any party, direct counsel for the parties to meet with the hearing officer (in person or by electronic means) at a prehearing conference for further discussion of the issues outlined in § 1081.203, or for discussion of any additional matters that in the view of the hearing officer will aid in an orderly disposition of the proceeding, including but not limited to:
(1) Identification of potential witnesses and limitation on the number of witnesses;
(2) The exchange of any prehearing materials including witness lists, statements of issues, exhibits, and any other materials;
(3) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the contents, authenticity, and admissibility into evidence of documents;
(4) Matters of which official notice may be taken; and
(5) Whether the parties intend to introduce prior sworn statements of witnesses as set forth in § 1081.303(h).
(b)
Transcript.
The hearing officer has discretion to require that a prehearing conference be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the conference and any materials filed, including orders, becomes part of the record of the proceeding. A party may obtain a copy of the transcript at that party's expense.
(c)
Public access.
Any prehearing conferences will be public unless the hearing officer determines, based on the standard set forth in § 1081.119(c), that the conference (or any part thereof) should be closed to the public.
§ 1081.215
Prehearing submissions.
(a)
Generally.
Within the time set by the hearing officer, but in no case later than 14 days before the start of the hearing, each party must serve on every other party:
(1) A prehearing statement, which must include an outline or narrative summary of the party's case or defense, and the legal theories upon which the party will rely;
(2) A final list of witnesses to be called to testify at the hearing, including the name and address of each witness and a short summary of the expected testimony of each witness;
(3) Any prior sworn statements that a party intends to admit into evidence pursuant to § 1081.303(h);
(4) A list of the exhibits to be introduced at the hearing along with a copy of each exhibit; and
(5) Any stipulations of fact or liability.
(b)
Expert witnesses.
Each party who intends to call an expert witness must also serve, in addition to the information required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a statement of the expert's qualifications, a listing of other proceedings in which the expert has given or sought to give expert testimony at trial or hearing or by deposition within the preceding four years, and a list of publications authored or co-authored by the expert within the preceding ten years, to the extent such information has not already been provided pursuant to § 1081.210.
(c)
Effect of failure to comply.
No witness may testify and no exhibits may be introduced at the hearing if such witness or exhibit is not listed in the prehearing submissions pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this section, except for good cause shown.
§ 1081.216
Amicus participation.
(a)
Availability.
An amicus brief may be filed only if:
(1) A motion for leave to file the brief has been granted;
(2) The brief is accompanied by written consent of all parties;
(3) The brief is filed at the request of the Director or the hearing officer, as appropriate; or
(4) The brief is presented by the United States or an officer or agency thereof, or by a State or a political subdivision thereof.
(b)
Procedure.
An amicus brief may be filed conditionally with the motion for leave. The motion for leave must identify the interest of the movant and state the reasons why a brief of an amicus curiae is desirable. Except as all parties otherwise consent, any amicus curiae must file its brief within the time allowed the party whose position the amicus will support, unless the Director or hearing officer, as appropriate, for good cause shown, grants leave for a later filing. If a later filing is allowed, the order granting leave to file must specify when an opposing party may reply to the brief.
(c)
Motions.
A motion for leave to file an amicus brief is subject to § 1081.205.
(d)
Formal requirements as to amicus briefs.
Amicus briefs must be filed pursuant to § 1081.111, comply with the requirements of § 1081.112, and are be subject to the length limitation in § 1081.212(e).
(e)
Oral argument.
An amicus curiae may move to present oral argument at any hearing before the hearing officer, but such motions will be granted only for extraordinary reasons.

# Subpart C—Hearings
§ 1081.300
Public hearings.
All hearings in adjudication proceedings will be public unless a confidentiality order is entered by the hearing officer pursuant to § 1081.119 or unless otherwise ordered by the Director on the grounds that holding an open hearing would be contrary to the public interest.
§ 1081.301
Failure to appear.
Failure of a respondent to appear in person or by a duly authorized counsel at the hearing constitutes a waiver of respondent's right to a hearing and may be deemed an admission of the facts as alleged and consent to the relief sought in the notice of charges. Without further proceedings or notice to the respondent, the hearing officer will file preliminary findings and conclusions containing findings of fact and addressing the relief sought in the notice of charges.
§ 1081.302
Conduct of hearings.
All hearings will be conducted in a fair, impartial, expeditious, and orderly manner. Enforcement counsel will present its case-in-chief first, unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer, or unless otherwise expressly specified by law or regulation. Enforcement counsel will be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement, and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's closing statement. If there are multiple respondents, respondents may agree among themselves as to their order of presentation of their cases, but if they do not agree, the hearing officer will fix the order.
§ 1081.303
Evidence.
(a)
Burden of proof.
Enforcement counsel will have the burden of proof of the ultimate issue(s) of the Bureau's claims at the hearing.
(b)
Admissibility.
(1) Except as is otherwise set forth in this section, relevant, material, and reliable evidence that is not unduly repetitive is admissible to the fullest extent authorized by the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable law. Irrelevant, immaterial, and unreliable evidence will be excluded.
(2) Evidence, even if relevant, may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice or confusion of the issues; if the evidence would be misleading; or based on considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(3) Evidence that constitutes hearsay may be admitted if it is relevant, material, and bears satisfactory indicia of
reliability so that its use is fair. Hearsay is a statement, other than one made by the declarant while testifying at the hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted. If otherwise meeting the standards for admissibility described in this section, transcripts of depositions, investigational hearings, prior testimony in Bureau or other proceedings, and any other form of hearsay will be admissible and may not be excluded solely on the ground that they are or contain hearsay.
(4) Evidence that would be admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence is admissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this part. Evidence that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence may not be deemed or ruled to be inadmissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this part solely on that basis.
(c)
Official notice.
Official notice may be taken of any material fact that is not subject to reasonable dispute in that it is either generally known or capable of accurate and ready determination by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned. If official notice is requested or is taken of a material fact not appearing in the evidence in the record, the parties, upon timely request, will be afforded an opportunity to disprove such noticed fact.
(d)
Documents.
(1) A duplicate copy of a document is admissible to the same extent as the original, unless a genuine issue is raised as to whether the copy is in some material respect not a true and legible copy of the original.
(2) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, any document, including a report of examination, supervisory activity, inspection or visitation, prepared by the Bureau, a prudential regulator, as that term is defined in section 1002(24) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481(24)), or by a State regulatory agency, is presumptively admissible either with or without a sponsoring witness.
(3) Witnesses may use existing or newly created charts, exhibits, calendars, calculations, outlines, or other graphic material to summarize, illustrate, or simplify the presentation of testimony. Such materials may, subject to the hearing officer's discretion, be used with or without being admitted into evidence.
(4) As respondents are in the best position to determine the nature of documents generated by such respondents and which come from their own files, the burden of proof is on the respondent to introduce evidence to rebut a presumption that such documents are authentic and kept in the regular course of business.
(e)
Objections.
(1) Objections to the admissibility of evidence must be timely made and rulings on all objections must appear on the record.
(2) Whenever evidence is excluded from the record, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which will be included in the record. Rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, must be retained pursuant to § 1081.306(b) so as to be available for consideration by any reviewing authority.
(3) Failure to object to admission of evidence or to any ruling constitutes a waiver of the objection.
(f)
Stipulations.
(1) The parties may, at any stage of the proceeding, stipulate as to any relevant matters of fact or the authentication of any relevant documents. Such stipulations must be received in evidence at a hearing and are binding on the parties with respect to the matters therein stipulated.
(2) Unless the hearing officer directs otherwise, all stipulations of fact and law previously agreed upon by the parties, and all documents, the admissibility of which have been previously stipulated, will be admitted into evidence upon commencement of the hearing.
(g)
Presentation of evidence.
(1) A witness at a hearing for the purpose of taking evidence must testify under oath or affirmation.
(2) A party is entitled to present its case or defense by sworn oral testimony and documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct such cross-examination as, in the discretion of the hearing officer, may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(3) An adverse party, or an officer, agent, or employee thereof, and any
witness who appears to be hostile, unwilling, or evasive, may be interrogated by leading questions and may also be contradicted and impeached by the party calling him or her.
(4) The hearing officer will exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to:
(i) Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth;
(ii) Avoid needless consumption of time; and
(iii) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(5) The hearing officer may permit a witness to appear at a hearing via electronic means for good cause shown.
(h)
Introducing prior sworn statements of witnesses into the record.
At a hearing, any party wishing to introduce a prior, sworn statement of a witness, not a party, otherwise admissible in the proceeding, may make a motion setting forth the reasons therefore. If only part of a statement is offered in evidence, the hearing officer may require that all relevant portions of the statement be introduced. If all of a statement is offered in evidence, the hearing officer may require that portions not relevant to the proceeding be excluded. A motion to introduce a prior sworn statement may be granted if:
(1) The witness is dead;
(2) The witness is out of the United States, unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party offering the prior sworn statement;
(3) The witness is unable to attend or testify because of age, sickness, infirmity, imprisonment, or other disability;
(4) The party offering the prior sworn statement has been unable to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or
(5) In the discretion of the hearing officer, it would be desirable, in the interests of justice, to allow the prior sworn statement to be used. In making this determination, due regard will be given to the presumption that witnesses will testify orally in an open hearing. If the parties have stipulated to accept a prior sworn statement in lieu of live testimony, consideration should also be given to the convenience of the parties in avoiding unnecessary expense.
§ 1081.304
Record of the hearing.
(a)
Reporting and transcription.
Hearings will be stenographically reported and transcribed under the supervision of the hearing officer, and the original transcript will be a part of the record and the sole official transcript. The live oral testimony of each witness may be video recorded digitally, in which case the video recording and the written transcript of the testimony will be made part of the record. Copies of transcripts will be available from the reporter at prescribed rates.
(b)
Corrections.
Corrections of the official transcript may be made only when they involve errors affecting substance and then only in the manner provided in this paragraph (b). Corrections ordered by the hearing officer or agreed to in a written stipulation signed by all counsel and parties not represented by counsel, and approved by the hearing officer, will be included in the record, and such stipulations, except to the extent they are capricious or without substance, must be approved by the hearing officer. Corrections will not be ordered by the hearing officer except upon notice and opportunity for the hearing of objections. Such corrections must be made by the official reporter by furnishing substitute type pages, under the usual certificate of the reporter, for insertion in the official record. The original uncorrected pages will be retained in the files of the Bureau.
(c)
Closing of the hearing record.
Upon completion of the hearing, the hearing officer will issue an order closing the hearing record after giving the parties seven days to determine if the record is complete or needs to be supplemented. The hearing officer retains the discretion to permit or order correction of the record as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1081.305
Post-hearing filings.
(a)
Proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs.
(1) Using the same method of service for each party, the hearing officer will serve notice upon
each party that the certified transcript, together with all hearing exhibits and exhibits introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing, has been filed promptly after that filing. Any party may file with the hearing officer proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law, and a proposed order within 28 days following service of this notice by the hearing officer or within such longer period as may be ordered by the hearing officer.
(2) Proposed findings and conclusions must be supported by citation to any relevant authorities and by page references to any relevant portions of the record. A post-hearing brief may be filed in support of proposed findings and conclusions, either as part of the same document or in a separate document.
(b)
Responsive briefs.
Responsive briefs may be filed within 14 days after the date on which the parties' proposed findings, conclusions, and order are due. Responsive briefs must be strictly limited to responding to matters, issues, or arguments raised in another party's papers. A party who has not filed proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law or a post-hearing brief may not file a responsive brief. Unless directed by the hearing officer, reply briefs are not permitted.
(c)
Order of filing.
The hearing officer may not order the filing by any party of any post-hearing brief or responsive brief in advance of the other party's filing of its post-hearing brief or responsive brief.
§ 1081.306
Record in proceedings before hearing officer; retention of documents; copies.
(a)
Contents of the record.
The record of the proceeding consists of:
(1) The notice of charges, the answer, and any amendments thereto;
(2) Each motion, submission, or other paper filed in the proceedings, and any amendments and exceptions to or regarding them;
(3) Each stipulation, transcript of testimony, and any document or other item admitted into evidence;
(4) Any transcript of a conference or hearing before the hearing officer;
(5) Any amicus briefs filed pursuant to § 1081.216;
(6) With respect to a request to disqualify a hearing officer or to allow the hearing officer's withdrawal under § 1081.105(c), each affidavit or transcript of testimony taken and the decision made in connection with the request;
(7) All motions, briefs, and other papers filed on interlocutory appeal;
(8) All proposed findings and conclusions;
(9) Each written order issued by the hearing officer or Director; and
(10) Any other document or item accepted into the record by the hearing officer.
(b)
Retention of documents not admitted.
Any document offered into evidence but excluded will not be considered part of the record. The Office of Administrative Adjudication will retain any such document until the later of the date upon which an order by the Director ending the proceeding becomes final and not appealable, or upon the conclusion of any judicial review of the Director's order.
(c)
Substitution of copies.
A true copy of a document may be substituted for any document in the record or any document retained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

# Subpart D—Decision and Appeals
§ 1081.400
Preliminary findings and conclusions of the hearing officer.
(a)
Time period for filing preliminary findings and conclusions.
Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the hearing officer must file preliminary findings and conclusions no later than 90 days after the deadline for filing post-hearing responsive briefs pursuant to § 1081.305(b) and in no event later than 360 days after filing of the notice of charges.
(b)
Extension of deadlines.
In the event the hearing officer presiding over the proceeding determines that it will not be possible to issue preliminary findings and conclusions within the time periods specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the hearing officer will submit a written request to the Director for an extension of the time period for filing the preliminary findings and conclusions. This request must be filed
no later than 28 days prior to the expiration of the time for issuance of preliminary findings and conclusions. The request will be served on all parties in the proceeding, who may file with the Director briefs in support of or in opposition to the request. Any such briefs must be filed within seven days of service of the hearing officer's request and may not exceed five pages. If the Director determines that additional time is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, the Director will issue an order extending the time period for filing preliminary findings and conclusions.
(c)
Content.
(1) Preliminary findings and conclusions must be based on a consideration of the whole record relevant to the issues decided, and be supported by reliable, probative, and substantial evidence. Preliminary findings and conclusions must include a statement of findings of fact (with specific page references to principal supporting items of evidence in the record) and conclusions of law, as well as the reasons or basis therefore, as to all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record and the appropriate order, sanction, relief or denial thereof. Preliminary findings and conclusions must also state that a notice of appeal may be filed within 14 days after service of the preliminary findings and conclusions and include a statement that, unless a party timely files and perfects a notice of appeal of the preliminary findings and conclusions, the Director may adopt the preliminary findings and conclusions as the final decision and order of the Bureau without further opportunity for briefing or argument.
(2) Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, when more than one claim for relief is presented in an adjudication proceeding, or when multiple parties are involved, the hearing officer may direct the entry of preliminary findings and conclusions as to one or more but fewer than all of the claims or parties only upon an express determination that there is no just reason for delay and upon an express direction for the entry of preliminary findings and conclusions.
(d)
By whom made.
Preliminary findings and conclusions must be made and filed by the hearing officer who presided over the hearings, except when that hearing officer has become unavailable to the Bureau.
(e)
Reopening of proceeding by hearing officer; termination of jurisdiction.
(1) At any time from the close of the hearing record pursuant to § 1081.304(c) until the filing of the hearing officer's preliminary findings and conclusions, a hearing officer may reopen the proceeding for the receipt of further evidence for good cause shown.
(2) Except for the correction of clerical errors or pursuant to an order of remand from the Director, the jurisdiction of the hearing officer is terminated upon the filing of the hearing officer's preliminary findings and conclusions with respect to those issues decided pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(f)
Filing, service, and publication.
Upon filing by the hearing officer of preliminary findings and conclusions, the Office of Administrative Adjudication will promptly transmit the preliminary findings and conclusions to the Director and serve them upon the parties.
§ 1081.401
Transmission of documents to Director; record index; certification.
(a)
Filing of index.
At the same time the Office of Administrative Adjudication transmits preliminary findings and conclusions to the Director, the hearing officer will furnish to the Director a certified index of the entire record of the proceedings. The certified index must include, at a minimum, an entry for each paper, document or motion filed in the proceeding, the date of the filing, and the identity of the filer. The certified index must also include an exhibit index containing, at a minimum, an entry consisting of exhibit number and title or description for each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence and each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence.
(b)
Retention of record items by the Office of Administrative Adjudication.
After the close of the hearing, the Office of Administrative Adjudication will retain originals of any motions, exhibits or any other documents filed with, or accepted into evidence by, the hearing
officer, or any other portions of the record that have not already been filed with the Office of Administrative Adjudication.
§ 1081.402
Notice of appeal; review by the Director.
(a)
Notice of appeal
—(1)
Filing.
Any party may file exceptions to the preliminary findings and conclusions of the hearing officer by filing a notice of appeal with the Office of Administrative Adjudication within 14 days after service of the preliminary findings and conclusions. The notice must specify the party or parties against whom the appeal is taken and must designate the preliminary findings and conclusions or part thereof appealed from. If a timely notice of appeal is filed by a party, any other party may thereafter file a notice of appeal within seven days after service of the first notice, or within 14 days after service of the preliminary findings and conclusions, whichever period expires last.
(2)
Perfecting a notice of appeal.
Any party filing a notice of appeal must perfect its appeal by filing its opening appeal brief within 28 days of service of the preliminary findings and conclusions. Any party may respond to the opening appeal brief by filing an answering brief within 28 days of service of the opening brief. Any party may file a reply to an answering brief within seven days of service of the answering brief. These briefs must conform to the requirements of § 1081.403.
(b)
Director review other than pursuant to an appeal.
In the event no party perfects an appeal of the hearing officer's preliminary findings and conclusions, the Director will, within 42 days after the date of service of the preliminary findings and conclusions, either issue a final decision and order adopting the preliminary findings and conclusions, or order further briefing regarding any portion of the preliminary findings and conclusions. The Director's order for further briefing must set forth the scope of review and the issues that will be considered and will make provision for the filing of briefs in accordance with the timelines set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section (except that that opening briefs will be due within 28 days of service of the order of review) if deemed appropriate by the Director.
(c)
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 704, a perfected appeal to the Director of preliminary findings and conclusions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is a prerequisite to the seeking of judicial review of a final decision and order, or portion of the final decision and order, adopting the preliminary findings and conclusions.
§ 1081.403
Briefs filed with the Director.
(a)
Contents of briefs.
Briefs must be confined to the particular matters at issue. Each exception to the findings or conclusions being reviewed should be stated succinctly. Exceptions must be supported by citation to the relevant portions of the record, including references to the specific pages relied upon, and by concise argument including citation of such statutes, decisions, and other authorities as may be relevant. If the exception relates to the admission or exclusion of evidence, the substance of the evidence admitted or excluded must be set forth in the brief, in an appendix thereto, or by citation to the record. Reply briefs must be confined to matters in answering briefs of other parties.
(b)
Length limitation.
Except with leave of the Director, opening and answering briefs may not exceed 30 pages, and reply briefs may not exceed 15 pages, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions or rules, and exhibits. Motions to file briefs in excess of these limitations are disfavored.
§ 1081.404
Oral argument before the Director.
(a)
Availability.
The Director will consider appeals, motions, and other matters properly before the Director on the basis of the papers filed by the parties without oral argument unless the Director determines that the presentation of facts and legal arguments in the briefs and record and decisional process would be significantly aided by
oral argument, in which case the Director will issue an order setting the date on which argument will be held. A party seeking oral argument must so indicate on the first page of that party's opening or answering brief.
(b)
Public arguments; transcription.
All oral arguments will be public unless otherwise ordered by the Director. Oral arguments before the Director will be reported stenographically, unless otherwise ordered by the Director. Motions to correct the transcript of oral argument must be made according to the same procedure provided in § 1081.304(b).
§ 1081.405
Decision of the Director.
(a) Upon appeal from or upon further review of preliminary findings and conclusions, the Director will consider such parts of the record as are cited or as may be necessary to resolve the issues presented and, in addition, will, to the extent necessary or desirable, exercise all powers which could have exercised if the Director had made the preliminary findings and conclusions. In proceedings before the Director, the record will consist of all items part of the record in accordance with § 1081.306 as follows: Any notices of appeal or order directing review; all briefs, motions, submissions, and other papers filed on appeal or review; and the transcript of any oral argument held. Review by the Director of preliminary findings and conclusions may be limited to the issues specified in the notice(s) of appeal or the issues, if any, specified in the order directing further briefing. On notice to all parties, however, the Director may, at any time prior to issuance of the Director's decision, raise and determine any other matters that the Director deems material, with opportunity for oral or written argument thereon by the parties.
(b) Decisional employees may advise and assist the Director in the consideration and disposition of the case.
(c) In rendering the Director's decision, the Director will affirm, adopt, reverse, modify, set aside, or remand for further proceedings the preliminary findings and conclusions and will include in the decision a statement of the reasons or basis for the Director's actions and the findings of fact upon which the decision is predicated.
(d) At the expiration of the time permitted for the filing of reply briefs with the Director, the Office of Administrative Adjudication will notify the parties that the case has been submitted for final Bureau decision. The Director will issue and the Office of Administrative Adjudication will serve the Director's final decision and order within 90 days after such notice, unless within that time the Director orders that the adjudication proceeding or any aspect thereof be remanded to the hearing officer for further proceedings.
(e) The Office of Administrative Adjudication will serve copies of a final decision and order of the Director upon each party to the proceeding in accordance with § 1081.113(d)(2); upon other persons required by statute, if any; and, if directed by the Director or required by statute, upon any appropriate State or Federal supervisory authority. A final decision and order will also be published on the Bureau's website or as otherwise deemed appropriate by the Bureau.
§ 1081.406
Reconsideration.
Within 14 days after service of the Director's decision and order, any party may file with the Director a petition for reconsideration, briefly and specifically setting forth the relief desired and the grounds in support thereof. Any petition filed under this section must be confined to new questions raised by the decision or order and upon which the petitioner had no opportunity to argue, in writing or orally, before the Director. No response to a petition for reconsideration may be filed unless requested by the Director, who will request such response before granting any petition for reconsideration. The filing of a petition for reconsideration does not operate to stay the effective date of the decision or order or to toll the running of any statutory period affecting such decision or order unless specifically so ordered by the Director.
§ 1081.407
Effective date; stays pending judicial review.
(a) Other than consent orders, which become effective at the time specified
therein, an order to cease and desist or for other affirmative action under section 1053(b) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563(b)) becomes effective at the expiration of 30 days after the date of service pursuant to § 1081.113(d)(2), unless the Director agrees to stay the effectiveness of the order pursuant to this section.
(b) Any party subject to a final decision and order, other than a consent order, may apply to the Director for a stay of all or part of that order pending judicial review.
(c) A motion for stay must state the reasons a stay is warranted and the facts relied upon, and must include supporting affidavits or other sworn statements, and a copy of the relevant portions of the record. The motion must address the likelihood of the movant's success on appeal, whether the movant will suffer irreparable harm if a stay is not granted, the degree of injury to other parties if a stay is granted, and why the stay is in the public interest.
(d) A motion for stay must be filed within 28 days of service of the order on the party. Any party opposing the motion may file a response within seven days after receipt of the motion. The movant may file a reply brief, limited to new matters raised by the response, within seven days after receipt of the response.
(e) The commencement of proceedings for judicial review of a final decision and order of the Director does not, unless specifically ordered by the Director or a reviewing court, operate as a stay of any order issued by the Director. The Director has discretion, on such terms as the Director finds just, to stay the effectiveness of all or any part of an order pending a final decision on a petition for judicial review of that order.
§ 1081.408
Issue exhaustion.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to any argument to support a party's case or defense, including any argument that could be a basis for setting aside Bureau action under 5 U.S.C. 706 or any other source of law.
(b)
Duties to raise arguments.
A party must raise an argument before the hearing officer, or else it is not preserved for later consideration by the Director. A party must raise an argument before the Director, or else it is not preserved for later consideration by a court.
(c)
Manner of raising arguments.
An argument must be raised in a manner that complies with this part and that provides a fair opportunity to consider the argument.
(d)
Discretion to consider unpreserved arguments.
The Director has discretion to consider an unpreserved argument, including by considering it in the alternative. If the Director considers an unpreserved argument in the alternative, the argument remains unpreserved.

# Subpart E—Temporary Cease-and-Desist Proceedings
§ 1081.500
Scope.
(a) This subpart prescribes the rules of practice and procedure applicable to the issuance of a temporary cease-and-desist order authorized by section 1053(c) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563(c)).
(b) The issuance of a temporary cease-and-desist order does not stay or otherwise affect the proceedings instituted by the issuance of a notice of charges, which are governed by subparts A through D of this part.
§ 1081.501
Basis for issuance, form, and service.
(a)
In general.
The Director or the Director's designee may issue a temporary cease-and-desist order if the Director determines that one or more of the alleged violations specified in a notice of charges, or the continuation thereof, is likely to cause the respondent to be insolvent or otherwise prejudice the interests of consumers before the completion of the adjudication proceeding. A temporary cease-and-desist order may require the respondent to cease and desist from any violation or practice specified in the notice of charges and to take affirmative action to prevent or remedy such insolvency or other condition pending completion of the proceedings initiated by the issuance of a notice of charges.
(b)
Incomplete or inaccurate records.
When a notice of charges specifies, on the basis of particular facts and circumstances, that the books and records of a respondent are so incomplete or inaccurate that the Bureau is unable to determine the financial condition of the respondent or the details or purpose of any transaction or transactions that may have a material effect on the financial condition of the respondent, then the Director or the Director's designee may issue a temporary order requiring:
(1) The cessation of any activity or practice which gave rise, whether in whole or in part, to the incomplete or inaccurate state of the books or records; or
(2) Affirmative action to restore such books or records to a complete and accurate state, until the completion of the adjudication proceeding.
(c)
Content, scope, and form of order.
Every temporary cease-and-desist order accompanying a notice of charges must describe:
(1) The basis for its issuance, including the alleged violations and the harm that is likely to result without the issuance of an order; and
(2) The act or acts the respondent is to take or refrain from taking.
(d)
Effective and enforceable upon service.
A temporary cease-and-desist order is effective and enforceable upon service.
(e)
Service.
Service of a temporary cease-and-desist order will be made pursuant to § 1081.113(d).
§ 1081.502
Judicial review, duration.
(a)
Availability of judicial review.
Judicial review of a temporary cease-and-desist order is available solely as provided in section 1053(c)(2) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563(c)(2)). Any respondent seeking judicial review of a temporary cease-and-desist order issued under this subpart must, not later than ten days after service of the temporary cease-and-desist order, apply to the United States district court for the judicial district in which the residence or principal office or place of business of the respondent is located, or the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, for an injunction setting aside, limiting, or suspending the enforcement, operation, or effectiveness of such order.
(b)
Duration.
Unless set aside, limited, or suspended by the Director or the Director's designee, or by a court in proceedings authorized under section 1053(c)(2) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563(c)(2)), a temporary cease-and-desist order will remain effective and enforceable until:
(1) The effective date of a final order issued upon the conclusion of the adjudication proceeding.
(2) With respect to a temporary cease-and-desist order issued pursuant to § 1081.501(b) only, the Bureau determines by examination or otherwise that the books and records are accurate and reflect the financial condition of the respondent, and the Director or the Director's designee issues an order terminating, limiting, or suspending the temporary cease-and-desist order.
Pt. 1082

# PART 1082—STATE OFFICIAL NOTIFICATION RULES

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5481
et seq.

# Source:
77 FR 39116, June 29, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1082.1
Procedures for notifying the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection when a State Official takes an action to enforce title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010.
(a)
Notice requirement.
(1) Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5552(b) and except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, every State attorney general and State regulator (State Official) shall provide the notice described in paragraph (c) of this section to the Enforcement Division of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the Bureau), the unit of the Bureau responsible for enforcement of Federal consumer financial law pursuant to title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, as amended, Public Law 111-203 (July 21, 2010), codified at 12 U.S.C. 5481
et seq.
(the Dodd-Frank Act), and the Office of the Executive Secretary of the Bureau
at least ten calendar days prior to initiating any action against any covered person. For purposes of this section, an action requiring notification is any adjudicative proceeding before a court or an administrative or regulatory body to determine whether a violation of any provision of title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or any regulation prescribed thereunder has occurred. Initiating an action under this section would include but not be limited to the filing of a complaint, motion for relief, or other document which initiates an action or a proceeding.
(2) Notice shall be provided to the Enforcement Division and the Office of the Executive Secretary, or their successor offices, via electronic mail to
Enforcement@cfpb.gov
and
ExecSec@cfpb.gov.
In the event of technical problems preventing the delivery of notice, the Enforcement Division or its successor entity should be contacted.
(3) On the same date that notice is provided to the Enforcement Division and the Office of the Executive Secretary pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a copy of the notice shall be sent to the relevant prudential regulator, if any, or the designee thereof, by mail or electronic mail.
(4) Notice shall be deemed to have been provided as of the date of transmitting or mailing the materials described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) The Enforcement Division, or its successor entity, in consultation with a State Official, may provide, for good cause shown, an alternative deadline for the notice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Emergency actions.
(1) Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5552(b), in the event that a State Official initiates or intends to initiate an action and, in order to protect the public interest or prevent irreparable and imminent harm, is unable to provide timely notice as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the State Official shall provide the notice described in paragraph (c) of this section as soon as is practicable and not later than 48 hours after initiation of the action.
(2) Notice shall be provided in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section.
(3) The Enforcement Division, or its successor entity, in consultation with a State Official, may provide, for good cause shown, an alternative deadline for the notice described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Contents of notice.
(1) Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5552(b), the notice required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall include a written description of the anticipated action, including:
(i) The court or body in which the action is to be initiated;
(ii) The identity of the parties to the action;
(iii) The nature of the action to be initiated;
(iv) The anticipated date of initiating the action;
(v) The alleged facts underlying the action;
(vi) A contact name, electronic mail address, and phone number of an individual involved with the matter in the office of the State Official with whom the Bureau may consult;
(vii) A determination as to whether there may be a need to coordinate the prosecution of the action so as not to interfere with any action, including any rulemaking, undertaken by the Bureau, a prudential regulator, or another Federal agency; and
(viii) A statement by the State Official setting forth any limitations on the disclosure of the substance or fact of the notice to any person or entity outside of the recipient agency.
(2) The notice required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall further include a complete and unredacted copy of any complaint, motion for relief, or similar document that is the subject of the notice, in its form as of the date the notice is provided. To the extent the complaint, motion for relief, or similar document contains the information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, provision of the complaint, motion for relief, or similar document shall be deemed sufficient notice of that information.
(3) In the event that notice is provided after the initiation of an action, the written description shall also include the following, in addition to the
information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section:
(i) A brief description of any proceeding that occurred as a result of the initiation of the action, including any orders issued by a court or other body;
(ii) Any case number, matter number, or designation assigned to the action; and
(iii) Information on scheduled court or other administrative or regulatory proceedings.
(4) In the event that notice is provided after the initiation of an action, in addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the notice shall further include a complete, unredacted copy of any document filed by any party in relation to the action and any orders issued by the court or other body.
(5) If the State Official, after providing the notice described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, intends to file a complaint, motion for relief, or similar document that is materially different from the document included with the notice, the State Official shall provide a copy of that document prior to filing, in accordance with the method described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(d)
Bureau response.
In any action described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Bureau may:
(1) Intervene in the action as a party;
(2) Upon intervening,
(i) Remove the action to the appropriate United States district court, if the action was not originally brought there; and
(ii) Be heard on all matters arising in the action;
(3) Appeal any order or judgment, to the same extent as any other party in the proceeding may; and
(4) Otherwise participate in the action as appropriate.
(e)
Confidentiality and privilege.
(1) The information described in paragraph (c) of this section, including the complaint, motion for relief, or other document, as well as the fact that notice has been provided, shall be subject to any limitations on disclosure imposed by the State Official pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(viii) of this section; provided, however, that the recipient may disclose such information:
(i) As required by law;
(ii) When the information is or becomes publicly available;
(iii) With the consent of the State Official; or
(iv) To another State or Federal government entity when necessary to protect the public interest, after consultation with the State Official who provided the notice.
(2) Provision of notice by a State Official and disclosure of information pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall not be deemed a waiver of any applicable privilege.
(f)
No private right of action or defense.
The requirements set forth in this section are not intended to, do not, and may not be relied upon to create any right, benefit, or defense, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States or any State enforcing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act or any regulation prescribed thereunder.
[77 FR 39116, June 29, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 39116, June 29, 2012]
Pt. 1083

# PART 1083—CIVIL PENALTY ADJUSTMENTS

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 2609(d); 12 U.S.C. 5113(d)(2); 12 U.S.C. 5565(c); 15 U.S.C. 1639e(k); 15 U.S.C. 1717a(a); 28 U.S.C. 2461 note.
§ 1083.1
Adjustment of civil penalty amounts.
(a) The maximum amount of each civil penalty within the jurisdiction of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to impose is adjusted in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 and further amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note), as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(a)
Law
Penalty description
Adjusted
maximum civil
penalty amount
12 U.S.C. 5565(c)(2)(A)
Tier 1 penalty
$7,034
12 U.S.C. 5565(c)(2)(B)
Tier 2 penalty
35,169
12 U.S.C. 5565(c)(2)(C)
Tier 3 penalty
1,406,728
15 U.S.C. 1717a(a)(2)
Per violation
2,451
15 U.S.C. 1717a(a)(2)
Annual cap
2,449,575
12 U.S.C. 2609(d)(1)
Per failure
115
12 U.S.C. 2609(d)(1)
Annual cap
230,464
12 U.S.C. 2609(d)(2)(A)
Per failure, where intentional
230
12 U.S.C. 5113(d)(2)
Per violation
35,516
15 U.S.C. 1639e(k)(1)
First violation
14,069
15 U.S.C. 1639e(k)(2)
Subsequent violations
28,135
(b) The adjustments in paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to civil penalties assessed after January 15, 2024, whose associated violations occurred on or after November 2, 2015.
[89 FR 1789, Jan. 11, 2024]
Pt. 1090

# PART 1090—DEFINING LARGER PARTICIPANTS OF CERTAIN CONSUMER FINANCIAL PRODUCT AND SERVICE MARKETS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1090.100
Scope and purpose.
1090.101
Definitions.
1090.102
Status as larger participant subject to supervision.
1090.103
Assessing status as a larger participant.

# Subpart B—Markets
1090.104
Consumer Reporting Market.
1090.105
Consumer debt collection market.
1090.106
Student loan servicing market.
1090.107
International Money Transfer Market.
1090.108
Automobile financing market.
1090.109
General-use digital consumer payment applications market.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(B); 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2); 12 U.S.C. 5514(b)(7)(A); and 12 U.S.C. 5512(b)(1).

# Source:
77 FR 42898, July 20, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1090.100
Scope and purpose.
This part defines those nonbank covered persons that qualify as larger participants of certain markets for consumer financial products or services pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(B) and (a)(2). A larger participant of a market covered by this part is subject to the supervisory authority of the Bureau under 12 U.S.C. 5514. This part also establishes rules to facilitate the Bureau's supervision of such larger participants pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(b)(7).
§ 1090.101
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Affiliated company
means any company (other than an insured depository institution or insured credit union) that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a person.
(1) For purposes of this definition “company” means any corporation, limited liability company, business trust, general or limited partnership, proprietorship, cooperative, association, or similar organization.
(2) A person has control over another person if:
(i) The person directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities or similar ownership interest of the other person;
(ii) The person controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, members, or general partners of the other person; or
(iii) The person directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other person.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
Completed fiscal year
means a tax year including any fiscal year, calendar year, or short tax year. “Fiscal year,” “calendar year,” “tax year,” and “short tax year” have the meanings attributed to them by the IRS as set forth in IRS Publication 538, which provides that:
(1) A “fiscal year” is 12 consecutive months ending on the last day of any month except December 31.
(2) A “calendar year” is 12 consecutive months ending on December 31.
(3) A “tax year” is an annual accounting period for keeping records and reporting income and expenses, or, if appropriate, a short tax year. An annual accounting period does not include a short tax year.
(4) A “short tax year” is a tax year of less than 12 months.
Consumer
means an individual or an agent, trustee, or representative acting on behalf of an individual.
Consumer financial product or service
means any financial product or service, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5481(15), that is described in one or more categories under:
(1) 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A) and is offered or provided for use by consumers primarily for personal, family, or household purposes; or
(2) Clause (i), (iii), (ix), or (x) of 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A) and is delivered, offered, or provided in connection with a consumer financial product or service referred to in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
Larger participant
means a nonbank covered person that has met a test under subpart B of this part within the period provided in § 1090.102 of this part.
Nonbank covered person
means, except for persons described in 12 U.S.C. 5515(a) and 5516(a):
(1) Any person that engages in offering or providing a consumer financial product or service; and
(2) Any affiliate of a person that engages in offering or providing a consumer financial product or service if such affiliate acts as a service provider to such person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.
Supervision and supervisory activity
mean the Bureau's exercise, or intended exercise, of supervisory authority, including by initiating or undertaking an examination, or requiring a report of a person, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514.
Supervision Director
means the Supervision Director or any Bureau employee designated by the Director of the Bureau or the Supervision Director to act under this part. The Director of the Bureau may perform the functions of the Supervision Director under this part.
[77 FR 42898, July 20, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 37526, June 30, 2015; 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]
§ 1090.102
Status as larger participant subject to supervision.
A person qualifying as a larger participant under subpart B of this part shall not cease to be a larger participant under this part until two years from the first day of the tax year in which the person last met the applicable test under subpart B.
§ 1090.103
Assessing status as a larger participant.
(a) If a person receives a written communication from the Bureau initiating a supervisory activity pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514, such person may respond by asserting that the person does not meet the definition of a larger participant of a market covered by this part within 45 days of the date of the communication. Such response must be sent to the Supervision Director by electronic transmission at the address included in the communication and must include an affidavit setting forth an explanation of the basis for the person's assertion that it does not meet the definition of larger participant of a market covered by this part and therefore is not subject to the Bureau's supervisory authority under 12 U.S.C. 5514. In addition, a person may include with the response copies of any records, documents, or other information on which the person relied in making the assertion.
(b) A person shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity, at any time that it may dispute that it qualifies as a larger participant, to rely on any argument, records, documents, or other information that it fails to submit to the Supervision Director under paragraph (a) of this section. A person who fails to respond to the Bureau's written
communication within 45 days will be deemed to have acknowledged that it is a larger participant.
(c) The Supervision Director shall review the affidavit, any attached records, documents, or other information submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and any other information the Supervision Director deems relevant, and thereafter send by electronic transmission to the person a statement explaining whether the person meets the definition for a larger participant of a market covered by this part.
(d) At any time, including prior to issuing the written communication referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, the Supervision Director may require that a person provide to the Bureau such records, documents, and information as the Supervision Director may deem appropriate to assess whether a person qualifies as a larger participant. Persons must provide the requisite records, documents, and other information to the Bureau within the time period specified in the request.
(e) The Supervision Director, in her or his discretion, may modify any timeframe prescribed by this section on her or his own initiative or for good cause shown.
[77 FR 42898, July 20, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]

# Subpart B—Markets
§ 1090.104
Consumer Reporting Market.
(a)
Market-Related definitions.
Annual receipts
means receipts calculated as follows:
(i)
Receipts
means “total income” (or in the case of a sole proprietorship, “gross income”) plus “cost of goods sold” as these terms are defined and reported on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax return forms (such as Form 1120 for corporations; Form 1120S and Schedule K for S corporations; Form 1120, Form 1065 or Form 1040 for LLCs; Form 1065 and Schedule K for partnerships; Form 1040, Schedule C for sole proprietorships). Receipts do not include net capital gains or losses; taxes collected for and remitted to a taxing authority if included in gross or total income, such as sales or other taxes collected from customers and excluding taxes levied on the entity or its employees; and amounts collected for another (but fees earned in connection with such collections are receipts). Items such as subcontractor costs, reimbursements for purchases a contractor makes at a customer's request, and employee-based costs such as payroll taxes are included in receipts.
(ii)
Period of measurement.
(A) Annual receipts of a person that has been in business for three or more completed fiscal years means the total receipts of the person over its three most recently completed fiscal years divided by three.
(B) Annual receipts of a person that has been in business for less than three completed fiscal years means the total receipts of the person for the period the person has been in business divided by the number of weeks in business, multiplied by 52.
(C) Where a person has been in business for three or more completed fiscal years, but one of the years within its period of measurement is a short tax year, annual receipts means the total receipts for the short year and the two full fiscal or calendar years divided by the total number of weeks in the short year and the two full fiscal or calendar years, multiplied by 52.
(iii)
Annual receipts of affiliated companies.
(A) The annual receipts of a person are calculated by adding the annual receipts of the person with the annual receipts of each of its affiliated companies.
(B) If a person has acquired an affiliated company or been acquired by an affiliated company during the applicable period of measurement, the annual receipts of the person and the affiliated company are aggregated for the entire period of measurement (not just the period after the affiliation arose).
(C) Receipts are calculated separately for the person and each of its affiliated companies in accordance with paragraph (ii) of this definition even though this may result in using a different period of measurement to calculate an affiliated company's annual receipts. Thus, for example, if an affiliated company has been in business for a period of less than three years, the affiliated company's receipts are to be
annualized in accordance with paragraph (ii)(B) of this definition even if the person has been in business for three or more completed fiscal years.
(D) The annual receipts of a formerly affiliated company are not included in the annual receipts of a nonbank covered person for purposes of this section, if the affiliation ceased before the applicable period of measurement as set forth in paragraph (ii) of this definition. The annual receipts of a nonbank covered person and its formerly affiliated company are aggregated for the entire period of measurement if the affiliation ceased during the applicable period of measurement as set forth in paragraph (ii) of this definition.
Consumer reporting
means:
(i)
In general.
Consumer reporting means collecting, analyzing, maintaining, or providing consumer report information or other account information used or expected to be used in any decision by another person regarding the offering or provision of any consumer financial product or service.
(ii)
Exclusion for transaction and experience information.
Consumer reporting does not include the activities of a person to the extent that a person collects, analyzes, maintains, or provides information that relates solely to the person's transactions or experiences with consumers.
(iii)
Exclusion for furnishing affiliate information to a consumer reporting entity.
Consumer reporting does not include the activities of a person to the extent that a person provides information that solely relates to transactions or experiences between a consumer and an affiliate of such person to another person that is engaged in consumer reporting.
(iv)
Exclusion for certain authorizations or approvals.
Consumer reporting does not include any authorization or approval of a specific extension of credit directly or indirectly by the issuer of a credit card or similar device.
(v)
Exclusion for providing information to be used solely in a decision regarding employment, government licensing, or residential leasing or tenancy.
Consumer reporting does not include the activities of a person to the extent that a person provides consumer report or other account information that is used or expected to be used solely regarding a decision for employment, government licensing, or a residential lease or tenancy involving a consumer, or to be used solely in any decision regarding the offering or provision of a product or service that is not a consumer financial product or service.
(b)
Test to define larger participants.
A nonbank covered person that offers or provides consumer reporting is a larger participant of the consumer reporting market if the person's annual receipts resulting from consumer reporting are more than $7 million.
[77 FR 42898, July 20, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 37526, June 30, 2015]
§ 1090.105
Consumer debt collection market.
(a)
Market-Related definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Annual receipts
means, for the consumer debt collection market, receipts calculated as follows:
(i)
Receipts
means “total income” (or in the case of a sole proprietorship, “gross income”) plus “cost of goods sold” as these terms are defined and reported on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax return forms (such as Form 1120 for corporations; Form 1120S and Schedule K for S corporations; Form 1120, Form 1065 or Form 1040 for LLCs; Form 1065 and Schedule K for partnerships; and Form 1040, Schedule C for sole proprietorships). Receipts do not include net capital gains or losses; taxes collected for and remitted to a taxing authority if included in gross or total income, such as sales or other taxes collected from customers but excluding taxes levied on the entity or its employees; or amounts collected for another (but fees earned in connection with such collections are receipts). Items such as subcontractor costs, reimbursements for purchases a contractor makes at a customer's request, and employee-based costs such as payroll taxes are included in receipts.
(ii)
Period of measurement.
(A) Annual receipts of a person that has been in business for three or more completed fiscal years means the total receipts of the person over its three most recently completed fiscal years divided by three.
(B) Annual receipts of a person that has been in business for less than three completed fiscal years means the total receipts of the person for the period the person has been in business divided by the number of weeks in business, multiplied by 52.
(C) Where a person has been in business for three or more completed fiscal years, but one of the years within its period of measurement is a short tax year, annual receipts means the total receipts for the short year and the two full fiscal or calendar years divided by the total number of weeks in the short year and the two full fiscal or calendar years, multiplied by 52.
(iii)
Annual receipts of affiliated companies.
(A) The annual receipts of a person are calculated by adding the annual receipts of the person with the annual receipts of each of its affiliated companies.
(B) If a person has acquired an affiliated company or been acquired by an affiliated company during the applicable period of measurement, the annual receipts of the person and the affiliated company are aggregated for the entire period of measurement (not just the period after the affiliation arose).
(C) Receipts are calculated separately for the person and each of its affiliated companies in accordance with paragraph (ii) of this definition even though this may result in using a different period of measurement to calculate an affiliated company's annual receipts. Thus, for example, if an affiliated company has been in business for a period of less than three years, the affiliated company's receipts are to be annualized in accordance with paragraph (ii) of this definition even if the person has been in business for three or more completed fiscal years.
(D) The annual receipts of a formerly affiliated company are not included in the annual receipts of a nonbank covered person for purposes of this section if the affiliation ceased before the applicable period of measurement as set forth in paragraph (ii) of this definition. The annual receipts of a nonbank covered person and its formerly affiliated company are aggregated for the entire period of measurement if the affiliation ceased during the applicable period of measurement as set forth in paragraph (ii) of this definition.
(E) Annual receipts do not include receipts that result from the collection of debt that was originally owed to a medical provider.
Consumer debt collection
is a debt collector's collection of debt incurred by a consumer primarily for personal, family, or household purposes and related to a consumer financial product or service.
Creditor
means any person who offers or extends credit creating a debt or to whom a debt is owed, but such term does not include any person to the extent that the person receives an assignment or transfer of a debt in default solely for the purpose of facilitating the collection of debt for another.
Debt collector
means any person who uses any instrumentality of interstate commerce or the mails in any business the principal purpose of which is the collection of any debts, or who regularly collects or attempts to collect, directly or indirectly, debts owed or due or asserted to be owed or due to another. Notwithstanding the exclusion provided by paragraph (iii) of this definition, the term includes any creditor who, in the process of collecting his own debts, uses any name other than his own which would indicate that a third person is collecting or attempting to collect such debts. The term does not include:
(i) Any person while acting as a debt collector for another person, both of whom are related by common ownership or affiliated by corporate control, if the person acting as a debt collector does so only for persons to whom it is so related or affiliated and if the principal business of such person is not the collection of debts;
(ii) Any nonprofit organization which, at the request of consumers, performs bona fide consumer credit counseling and assists consumers in the liquidation of their debts by receiving payments from such consumers and distributing such amounts to creditors;
(iii) Any person collecting or attempting to collect any debt owed or due or asserted to be owed or due another to the extent such activity:
(A) Concerns a debt which was originated by such person; or
(B) Concerns a debt which was not in default at the time it was obtained by such person; and
(iv) Any person engaged solely in enforcing a security interest.
(b)
Test to define larger participants.
A nonbank covered person is a larger participant of the consumer debt collection market if the nonbank covered person's annual receipts resulting from consumer debt collection are more than $10 million.
[77 FR 65798, Oct. 31, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 72913, Dec. 7, 2012; 80 FR 37526, June 30, 2015]
§ 1090.106
Student loan servicing market.
(a)
Market-related definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Account volume
means the number of accounts with respect to which a nonbank covered person is considered to perform student loan servicing, calculated as follows:
(i)
Number of accounts.
A nonbank covered person has at least one account for each student or prior student with respect to whom the nonbank covered person performs student loan servicing. If a nonbank covered person is receiving separate fees for performing student loan servicing with respect to a given student or prior student, the nonbank covered person has one account for each stream of fees to which the person is entitled.
(ii)
Time of measurement.
The number of accounts is counted as of December 31 of the prior calendar year.
(iii)
Affiliated companies.
(A) The account volume of a nonbank covered person is the sum of the number of accounts of that nonbank covered person and of any affiliated companies of that person.
(B) If two persons become affiliated companies, each person's number of accounts as of the prior calendar year's December 31 is included in the total account volume.
(C) If two affiliated companies cease to be affiliated companies, the number of accounts of each continues to be included in the other's account volume until the succeeding December 31.
Post-secondary education expenses
means any of the expenses that are included as part of the cost of attendance of a student as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1087
ll.
Post-secondary education loan
means a loan that is made, insured or guaranteed under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070
et seq.
) or that is extended to a consumer with the expectation that the funds extended will be used in whole or in part to pay post-secondary education expenses. A loan that is extended in order to refinance or consolidate a consumer's existing post-secondary education loans is also a post-secondary education loan. However, no loan under an open-end credit plan (as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(20)) or loan that is secured by real property is a post-secondary education loan, regardless of the purpose for the loan.
Student loan servicing
means:
(i)(A) Receiving any scheduled periodic payments from a borrower or notification of such payments and
(B) Applying payments to the borrower's account pursuant to the terms of the post-secondary education loan or of the contract governing the servicing;
(ii) During a period when no payment is required on a post-secondary education loan,
(A) Maintaining account records for the loan and
(B) Communicating with the borrower regarding the loan, on behalf of the loan's holder; or
(iii) Interactions with a borrower, including activities to help prevent default on obligations arising from post-secondary education loans, conducted to facilitate the activities described in paragraph (i) or (ii) of this definition.
(b)
Test to define larger participants.
A nonbank covered person that offers or provides student loan servicing is a larger participant of the student loan servicing market if the nonbank covered person's account volume exceeds one million.
[78 FR 73406, Dec. 6, 2013]
§ 1090.107
International Money Transfer Market.
(a)
Market-related definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Aggregate annual international money transfers
means the sum of the annual international money transfers of a
nonbank covered person and the annual international money transfers of each of the nonbank covered person's affiliated companies.
(i)
Annual international money transfers.
Annual international money transfers of a nonbank covered person means the international money transfers provided by the nonbank covered person during the preceding calendar year.
(ii)
Agents.
(A) Annual international money transfers of a nonbank covered person include international money transfers in which another person acts as an agent on behalf of the nonbank covered person.
(B) Annual international money transfers of a nonbank covered person do not include international money transfers in which another person provided the international money transfers and the nonbank covered person performed activities as an agent on behalf of that other person.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph (ii), agent means an agent or authorized delegate, as defined under State or other applicable law, or affiliated company of a person that provides international money transfers when such agent, authorized delegate, or affiliated company acts for that person.
(iii)
Aggregating the annual international money transfers of affiliated companies.
(A) The annual international money transfers of each affiliated company of a nonbank covered person are calculated separately in accordance with paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this definition, treating the affiliated company as if it were an independent nonbank covered person for purposes of the calculation.
(B) The annual international money transfers of a nonbank covered person must be aggregated with the annual international money transfers of any person that was an affiliated company of the nonbank covered person at any time during the preceding calendar year. The annual international money transfers of the nonbank covered person and its affiliated companies are aggregated for the entire preceding calendar year, even if the affiliation did not exist for the entire calendar year.
Designated recipient
means any person specified by the sender as the authorized recipient of an international money transfer to be received at a location in a foreign country.
International money transfer
means the electronic transfer of funds requested by a sender to a designated recipient that is sent by an international money transfer provider. The term applies regardless of whether the sender holds an account with the international money transfer provider, and regardless of whether the transaction is also an electronic fund transfer, as defined in § 1005.3(b) of this chapter. The term does not include any transfer that is excluded from the definition of “electronic fund transfer” under § 1005.3(c)(4) of this chapter.
International money transfer provider
means any nonbank covered person that provides international money transfers for a consumer, regardless of whether the consumer holds an account with such person.
Sender
means a consumer in a State who primarily for personal, family, or household purposes requests an international money transfer provider to send an international money transfer to a designated recipient.
State
means any State, territory, or possession of the United States; the District of Columbia; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; or any political subdivision thereof.
(b)
Test to define larger participants.
A nonbank covered person is a larger participant of the international money transfer market if the nonbank covered person has at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers.
[79 FR 56650, Sept. 23, 2014]
§ 1090.108
Automobile financing market.
(a)
Market-related definitions.
As used in this section:
Aggregate annual originations
means the sum of the number of annual originations of a nonbank covered person and the number of annual originations of each of the nonbank covered person's affiliated companies, calculated as follows:
(i)
Annual Originations.
(A) Annual originations means the sum of the following transactions for the preceding calendar year:
(
1
) Credit granted for the purpose of purchasing an automobile;
(
2
) Automobile leases;
(
3
) Refinancings of obligations described in (i)(A)(
1
) of this definition that are secured by an automobile, and any subsequent refinancings thereof that are secured by an automobile; and
(
4
) Purchases or acquisitions of obligations described in (i)(A)(
1
), (
2
), or (
3
) of this definition.
(B) The term annual originations does not include:
(
1
) Investments in asset-backed securities; and
(
2
) Purchases or acquisitions of obligations by a special purpose entity established for the purpose of facilitating asset-backed securities transactions if the purchases or acquisitions are made for the purpose of facilitating an asset-backed securities transaction.
(ii)
Aggregating the annual originations of affiliated companies.
The annual originations of a nonbank covered person must be aggregated with the annual originations of any person (other than an entity described in paragraph (c) of this section) that was an affiliated company of the nonbank covered person at any time during the preceding calendar year. The annual originations of a nonbank covered person and its affiliated companies are aggregated for the entire preceding calendar year, even if the affiliation did not exist for the entire calendar year.
Automobile
means any self-propelled vehicle primarily used for personal, family, or household purposes for on-road transportation. The term does not include motor homes, recreational vehicles (RVs), golf carts, and motor scooters.
Automobile financing
means providing or engaging in the transactions identified under the term “Annual originations” as defined in this section.
Automobile lease
means a lease that is for the use of an automobile, as defined in this section, and that meets the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A)(ii) or 12 CFR 1001.2(a).
Refinancing
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.20(a), except that the nonbank covered person need not be the original creditor or a holder or servicer of the original obligation.
(b)
Test to define larger participants.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a nonbank covered person that engages in automobile financing is a larger participant of the automobile financing market if the person has at least 10,000 aggregate annual originations.
(c)
Exclusion for dealers.
The following entities do not qualify as larger participants under this section:
(1) Persons excluded from the Bureau's authority by 12 U.S.C. 5519; and
(2) Persons who meet the definition in 12 U.S.C. 5519(f)(2); are identified in 12 U.S.C. 5519(b)(2); and are predominantly engaged in the sale and servicing of motor vehicles (as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 5519(f)(1)), the leasing and servicing of motor vehicles, or both.
[80 FR 37526, June 30, 2015]
§ 1090.109
General-use digital consumer payment applications market.
(a)(1)
Market definition. Providing a general-use digital consumer payment application
means providing a covered payment functionality through a digital payment application for consumers' general use in making consumer payment transaction(s) as defined in this subpart.
(2)
Market-related definitions.
As used in this section:
(i)
Consumer payment transaction(s)
means, except for transactions excluded under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, the transfer of funds by or on behalf of a consumer who resides in a State to another person primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. The term applies to transfers of consumer funds and transfers made by extending consumer credit, except for the following transactions:
(A) An international money transfer as defined in § 1090.107(a);
(B) A transfer of funds by a consumer:
(
1
) That is linked to the consumer's receipt of a different form of funds, such as a transaction for foreign exchange as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5481(16); or
(
2
) That is excluded from the definition of “electronic fund transfer” under § 1005.3(c)(4) of this chapter;
(C) A payment transaction conducted by a person for the sale or lease of goods or services that a consumer selected from that person or its affiliated company's online or physical store or marketplace, or for a donation to a fundraiser that a consumer selected from that person or its affiliated company's platform; and
(D) An extension of consumer credit initiated through a digital application that is provided by a person who is extending, brokering, acquiring, or purchasing the credit or that person's affiliated company.
(ii)
Covered payment functionality
means a funds transfer functionality as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, a wallet functionality as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, or both.
(A)
Funds transfer functionality
means, in connection with a consumer payment transaction:
(
1
) Receiving funds from a consumer for the purpose of transmitting them; or
(
2
) Accepting from a consumer and transmitting payment instructions.
(B)
Payment wallet functionality
means a product or service that:
(
1
) Stores for a consumer account or payment credentials, including in encrypted or tokenized form; and
(
2
) Transmits, routes, or otherwise processes such stored account or payment credentials to facilitate a consumer payment transaction.
(iii)
Digital payment application,
for purposes of this subpart, means a software program a consumer may access through a personal computing device, including but not limited to a mobile phone, smart watch, tablet, laptop computer, or desktop computer. Examples of digital payment applications covered by this definition include an application a consumer downloads to a personal computing device, a website a consumer accesses by using an internet browser on a personal computing device, or a program the consumer activates from a personal computing device using a personal identifier such as a passkey, password, PIN, or consumer's biometric identifier, such as a fingerprint, palmprint, face, eyes, or voice. Operating a web browser is not an example of providing a digital payment application.
(iv)
General use,
for purposes of this subpart, means usable for a consumer to transfer funds in a consumer payment transaction to multiple, unaffiliated persons, subject to an exception for a payment functionality provided through a digital consumer payment application solely for the following:
(A) Using accounts described in § 1005.2(b)(3)(ii)(A), (C) or (D) of this chapter; or
(B) To pay a specific debt or type of debt including:
(
1
) Debts owed in connection with origination or repayment of an extension of consumer credit; or
(
2
) Debts in default.
(v)
State
means any State, territory, or possession of the United States; the District of Columbia; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; or any political subdivision thereof.
(b)
Test to define larger participants.
A nonbank covered person is a larger participant of the general-use digital consumer payment applications market if the nonbank covered person met both of the following criteria during the preceding calendar year:
(1) It provided annual covered consumer payment transaction volume as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section of at least 50 million consumer payment transactions; and
(2) It was not a “small business concern” as that term is defined by section 3(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 632(a) and implemented by the Small Business Administration under 13 CFR part 121, or any successor provisions.
(3)
Annual covered consumer payment transaction volume
means the sum of the number of consumer payment transactions denominated in U.S. dollars that the nonbank covered person and its affiliated companies facilitated in the preceding calendar year by providing general-use digital consumer payment applications.
(i)
Method of aggregating the annual covered consumer payment transaction
volume of affiliated companies.
The annual covered consumer payment transaction volume of each affiliated company of a nonbank covered person is first calculated separately, treating the affiliated company as if it were an independent nonbank covered person for purposes of the calculation. The annual covered consumer payment transaction volume of a nonbank covered person then must be aggregated with the separately-calculated annual covered consumer payment transaction volume of each person that was an affiliated company of the nonbank covered person at any time in the preceding calendar year. However, if any two or more of these companies facilitated a single consumer payment transaction denominated in U.S. dollars, that consumer payment transaction shall only be counted one time in the aggregated annual covered consumer payment volume calculation. The annual covered consumer payment transaction volumes of the nonbank covered person and its affiliated companies are aggregated for the entire preceding calendar year, even if the affiliation did not exist for the entire calendar year.
(ii) [Reserved]
[89 FR 99653, Dec. 10, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 99653, Dec. 10, 2024, § 1090.109 was added, effective Jan. 9, 2025.
Pt. 1091

# PART 1091—PROCEDURES FOR SUPERVISORY DESIGNATION PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1091.100
Scope and purpose.
1091.101
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Determination and Voluntary Consent Procedures
1091.201
Voluntary consent to supervisory authority.
1091.202
Notice of Reasonable Cause.
1091.203
Response.
1091.204
Reply by initiating official.
1091.205
Supplemental oral response.
1091.206
Determination by the Director.

# Subpart C—Post-Determination Procedures
1091.301
Petition for termination of order.

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous Provisions
1091.401
Methods of filing and serving documents.
1091.402
Time limits.
1091.403
Word limits.
1091.404
Changes to methods of filing and service, time limits, and word limits.
1091.405
Confidentiality of proceedings.
1091.406
Multiple respondents.
1091.407
Adjudication proceedings otherwise brought by the Bureau.
1091.408
Issue exhaustion.
1091.409
No limitation on relief sought in civil action or administrative adjudication.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5512(b)(1), 5514(a)(1)(C), 5514(b)(7).

# Source:
89 FR 30264, Apr. 23, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1091.100
Scope and purpose.
This part sets forth procedures to implement section 1024(a)(1)(C) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C)) and establishes rules to facilitate the Bureau's supervisory authority over certain nonbank covered persons pursuant to section 1024(b)(7) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 5514(b)(7)).
§ 1091.101
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Bureau, consumer, consumer financial product or service, and covered person
have the definitions in 12 U.S.C. 5481.
Decisional employee
means an employee of the Bureau who has not engaged in assisting the initiating official in either determining whether to issue a Notice of Reasonable Cause, or presenting the initiating official's position in support of a Notice of Reasonable Cause, either in writing or in a supplemental oral response, to the Director.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau or his or her designee. If there is no Director, the term means a person authorized to perform the functions of the Director under this part, or his or her designee. For purposes of when the Director receives, files, or serves documents, the Director includes an employee acting on behalf of the Director.
Initiating official
means the Supervision Director or another Bureau employee designated by the Director. For purposes of receiving, filing, and serving documents or participating in a supplemental oral response, the initiating official includes an employee acting on behalf of the initiating official.
Nonbank covered person
means a covered person, except for persons described in 12 U.S.C. 5515(a) and 5516(a).
Notice of Reasonable Cause
and
Notice
mean a Notice issued under § 1091.202.
Person
has the definition in 12 U.S.C. 5481.
Respondent
means a person who has been issued a Notice of Reasonable Cause under § 1091.202 or who has entered into a consent agreement under § 1091.201.
State
has the definition in 12 U.S.C. 5481.

# Subpart B—Determination and Voluntary Consent Procedures
§ 1091.201
Voluntary consent to supervisory authority.
(a) At any time, a person and the initiating official may enter into a consent agreement by which the person voluntarily consents to the Bureau's supervisory authority under 12 U.S.C. 5514. The consent agreement shall constitute an order authorized by 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C).
(b) A consent agreement under this section does not constitute an admission that a person is a nonbank covered person that is engaging, or has engaged, in conduct that poses risks to consumers with regard to the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services.
(c) A consent agreement may specify a period of time that the person will be subject to the Bureau's authority under 12 U.S.C. 5514. If the consent agreement specifies a period of time, it shall not be eligible for a petition for termination pursuant to § 1091.301. If the consent agreement does not specify a period of time, the consent agreement will continue until terminated pursuant to § 1091.301.
(d) A consent agreement under this section shall state that the person waives any right to judicial review of the consent agreement.
(e) The initiating official encloses a proposed consent agreement with the Notice of Reasonable Cause in accordance with § 1091.202(c)(6).
§ 1091.202
Notice of Reasonable Cause.
(a)
Generally.
The initiating official is authorized to issue a Notice of Reasonable Cause to a person stating that the Bureau may have reasonable cause to determine that the respondent is a nonbank covered person that is engaging, or has engaged, in conduct that poses risks to consumers with regard to the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services.
(b)
Basis of Notice.
A Notice of Reasonable Cause shall be based on:
(1) Complaints collected through the system under 12 U.S.C. 5493(b)(3); and/or
(2) Information from other sources.
(c)
Contents of Notice.
A Notice of Reasonable Cause is subject to the word limit in § 1091.403 and shall contain the following:
(1) A description of the basis for the assertion that the Bureau may have reasonable cause to determine that a respondent is a nonbank covered person that is engaging, or has engaged, in conduct that poses risks to consumers with regard to the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services, including a summary of the documents, records, or other items relied on by the initiating official to issue a Notice. Such summary will be consistent with the protection of sensitive information, including compliance with Federal privacy law and whistleblower protections;
(2) A statement that this proceeding is governed by 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C) and 12 CFR part 1091;
(3) A statement that failure to respond within 30 days, in the manner specified by § 1091.203, will constitute a waiver of the right to respond and may result in a default determination by the Director;
(4) Instructions for filing documents with the Director;
(5) Instructions for serving documents on the initiating official; and
(6) In an appendix, a proposed consent agreement under § 1091.201.
(d)
Service of Notice.
A Notice of Reasonable Cause shall be served on a respondent by any means that are reasonably calculated to give notice. This includes, but is not limited to, the methods available under 12 CFR 1081.113(d)(1). The initiating official shall promptly file a copy of the Notice and a record of service with the Director.
(e)
Withdrawal of Notice.
The initiating official may withdraw the Notice at any time. Such a withdrawal shall not prevent the initiation of another proceeding under this part.
§ 1091.203
Response.
(a)
Timing and word limit.
Within 30 days of service of a Notice, a respondent shall file any response with the Director and serve it on the initiating official, according to the instructions set forth in the Notice. The response is subject to the word limit in § 1091.403.
(b)
Content of the response.
(1) If the respondent disputes that it is a nonbank covered person that is engaging, or has engaged, in conduct that poses risks to consumers with regard to the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services, the response shall set forth the basis for the respondent's position.
(2) The response shall be accompanied by appendices that include (and are limited to) all documents, records, or other evidence a respondent wishes to use to support the arguments or assertions set forth in the response.
(3) If the respondent wishes to present a supplemental oral response, the response must include that request. The respondent may also include, for the Director's consideration, the respondent's preference for the supplemental oral response to be by telephone, by video conference, or in person at the Bureau's headquarters in Washington, DC. A respondent's failure to request to present a supplemental oral response shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to present a supplemental oral response.
(4) The response shall include an email address for serving documents on the respondent, which may be its attorney's email address.
(5) The response shall be accompanied, as an appendix, by an affidavit or declaration, made by the individual respondent if a natural person, or, if a corporate or other entity that is not a natural person, by an officer, managing or general member, or partner authorized to represent the respondent, affirming that the response is true and accurate and does not contain any omissions that would cause the response to be materially misleading.
(c)
Default.
If a respondent does not file a response within the time period set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, it shall constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to respond. At the initiating official's request, the Director may issue a decision and order as provided in § 1091.206(a)(1)).
(d)
No Discovery.
There shall be no discovery in connection with a response.
§ 1091.204
Reply by initiating official.
If the respondent files and serves a response, within 21 days the initiating official may file a reply with the Director and serve it on the respondent. The reply is subject to the word limit in § 1091.403.
§ 1091.205
Supplemental oral response.
(a) If the respondent makes a timely request in a response under § 1091.203 for the opportunity to present a supplemental oral response, the Director shall issue an order setting forth the date, time, and general information relating to the conduct of a supplemental oral response.
(b) There shall be no discovery permitted or witnesses called in connection with a supplemental oral response.
(c) If a respondent is a corporate or other entity, and not a natural person, the respondent shall be represented in any supplemental oral response by:
(1) An officer, managing or general member, or partner authorized to represent the respondent; or
(2) An attorney in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State.
(d) If a respondent is a natural person, the respondent shall be represented in any supplemental oral response by:
(1) The respondent personally; or
(2) An attorney in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State.
(e) The Director shall cause an audio recording of a supplemental oral response to be made by a court reporter or other designated person. A respondent may purchase a copy or transcript of the recording at the respondent's own expense.
(f) The initiating official may participate in any supplemental oral response conducted under this section.
(g) A respondent's failure to participate in a supplemental oral response scheduled by the Director shall constitute the respondent's waiver of the opportunity to present a supplemental oral response.
§ 1091.206
Determination by the Director.
(a) Within 60 days after the supplemental oral response, or, if there is no supplemental oral response, the deadline for the reply, the Director shall issue either:
(1) A decision and order subjecting the respondent to the Bureau's supervisory authority pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C); or
(2) A notification that the Director is terminating the proceeding. Such notification shall have no precedential effect and shall not prevent the initiation of another proceeding under this part.
(b) The Director may, on the Director's own motion at any time before making a determination under paragraph (a) of this section, request that the respondent, initiating official, or both provide any supplemental briefing that Director considers appropriate.
(c) Any decision and order issued by the Director pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall include the basis for the decision and an effective date for the order.
(d) Only decisional employees may advise and assist the Director in the consideration and disposition of a proceeding under this part.
(e) A decision and order issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall constitute final agency action under 5 U.S.C. 704.

# Subpart C—Post-Determination Procedures
§ 1091.301
Petition for termination of order.
(a) Any person subject to an order under 1091.206(a)(1) may, no sooner than two years after issuance of such an order and no more frequently than annually thereafter, petition for termination of the order. The same applies to an order under § 1091.201, subject to the limitations in § 1091.201(c).
(b) A petition for termination submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall set forth the reasons supporting termination of the order, including any actions taken by a respondent since issuance of the order to address the conduct that led to issuance of the order, and may include any supporting information or evidence that the petitioner believes is relevant to the Director's determination of the matter. A petition for termination must be filed with the Director and served on the initiating official and is subject to the word limit in § 1091.403.
(c) The initiating official shall, within 30 days of receipt of a petition for termination, file a recommendation with the Director and serve it on the respondent. The initiating official's recommendation shall state whether the initiating official recommends that the order be terminated, or modified, or that the petition for termination be denied and the basis for such recommendation. The recommendation is subject to the word limit in § 1091.403.
(d) Not later than 90 days after submission of a petition under paragraph (a) of this section, the Director shall issue a written decision either terminating or modifying the order, or denying the petition. If the Director modifies the order or denies the petition, the Director shall explain the basis for his or her decision with respect to the petition. At any time before issuing a decision, the Director may, on the Director's own motion, request that the respondent and initiating official provide any supplemental briefing that Director considers appropriate.
(e) The decision of the Director made pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall constitute final agency action under 5 U.S.C. 704.

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 1091.401
Methods of filing and serving documents.
(a)
By the respondent.
The respondent files documents with the Director, and serves documents on the initiating official, in accordance with the instructions in the Notice.
(b)
By the initiating official.
The initiating official serves documents on the respondent at the email address specified in the Response (except for service of the Notice, which is governed by § 1091.202(d)). The initiating official files documents with the Director by any appropriate method.
(c)
By the Director.
The Director serves documents on the respondent at the email address specified in the Response. The Director serves documents on the initiating official by any appropriate method.
(d)
Changes.
Changes to the methods of filing and serving documents are addressed in § 1091.404.
§ 1091.402
Time limits.
In computing any period of time prescribed by this part, or by order of the Director, the date of the act or event that commences the designated period of time is not included. The last day so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6103(a). When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are included in the computation of time, except when the time period within which an act is to be performed is ten days or less. Changes to time limits are addressed in § 1091.404.
§ 1091.403
Word limits.
(a)
Calculation of word limits.
A Notice, response, reply, petition for termination, or recommendation on a petition for termination must contains no more than 13,000 words. This word limit does not apply to any cover page, table of contents, table of citations, signature block, or appendices. Changes to word limits are addressed in § 1091.404.
(b)
Certification of word count.
A document referenced in paragraph (a) of this section must be accompanied by an appendix stating the number of words in the document, not including any cover page, table of contents, table of citations, signature block, or appendices. It must be signed by counsel for the party filing the document, or by another representative if that party does not have counsel.
§ 1091.404
Changes to methods of filing and service, time limits, and word limits.
(a)
Generally.
This section governs a change to a method of filing or service, to a time limit, or to a word limit, whether prescribed by this part or by the Director. Changes to time limits or word limits are disfavored.
(b)
Change upon consent.
The initiating official and respondent may agree in writing to a change, unless the Director specifies otherwise. The initiating official shall file notice of the change with the Director.
(c)
Change upon written request to Director.
The initiating official or the respondent may file a written request to the Director for a change, for good cause shown. The mere filing of a written request for a change does not alleviate the obligation to meet an applicable requirement, absent written confirmation that the request has been granted.
(c)
Change upon Director's own motion.
The Director may make a change on the Director's own motion.
(e)
No conferral of rights.
Deadlines for action by the Bureau established in this part do not confer any rights on respondents.
§ 1091.405
Confidentiality of proceedings.
(a)
General rule.
In connection with a proceeding under this part, including a petition for termination under § 1091.301, all documents, records or other items submitted by a respondent to the Bureau, all documents prepared by, or on behalf of, or for the use of the Bureau, and any communications between the Bureau and a person, shall be deemed confidential supervisory information under 12 CFR 1070.2(i)(1). However, this paragraph does not apply
to the version of a document that is released on the Bureau's website under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Publication of final decisions and orders by the Director.
The Director will make a determination regarding whether a decision or order under § 1091.206(a)(1) or § 1091.301(d) will be publicly released on the Bureau's website, in whole or in part. The respondent may file a submission regarding that issue, within ten days after service of the decision or order. The Director will not release information in a decision or order to the extent it would be exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) or (b)(6) or the Director determines there is other good cause. The Director may also decide that any determination regarding public release will itself be released on the website, in whole or in part. Section 1091.206(d) is not applicable to determinations under this paragraph.
§ 1091.406
Multiple respondents.
(a)
Notice issued to multiple respondents.
The initiating official may issue and serve a Notice with respect to multiple respondents. The respondents may elect to make either joint or separate responses to such a Notice under § 1091.203 and be jointly or separately represented at a supplemental oral response under § 1091.205.
(b)
Supplemental Notice to add respondents.
The initiating official may issue a supplemental Notice in a pending proceeding to add one or more respondents. The Director will adopt such procedural steps as may be appropriate to ensure that the added respondents have a reasonable opportunity to respond to the supplemental Notice.
§ 1091.407
Adjudication proceedings otherwise brought by the Bureau.
(a) The Bureau may, in its discretion, provide the notice and opportunity to respond required by 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C) in a notice of charges otherwise brought by the Bureau pursuant to 12 CFR 1081.200 and the adjudication proceedings pursuant to part 1081. Also, a person may agree to submit to the Bureau's supervisory authority under 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C) as part of a consent order entered into in connection with an adjudication proceeding or civil action.
(b) If the Bureau chooses to proceed in the manner described in paragraph (a) of this section, it shall so indicate in the notice of charges, and any order of the Director resulting from the notice of charges shall constitute the order referred to in 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C).
(c) If the Bureau proceeds pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the provisions of §§ 1091.201 to 1091.206 and 1091.401 to 1091.406 will be inapplicable to such proceeding.
§ 1091.408
Issue exhaustion.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to any argument to support a respondent's position, including any argument that could be a basis for setting aside Bureau action under 5 U.S.C. 706 or any other source of law.
(b)
Duties to raise arguments.
A respondent must raise an argument in its written response, or else it is not preserved for judicial review of a proceeding under subpart B. A respondent must raise an argument in its petition for termination, or else it is not preserved for judicial review of a proceeding under subpart C. If the Director requests supplemental briefing, and if a given argument is within the scope of the supplemental briefing requested, the respondent must raise the argument in the supplemental briefing or else it is not preserved for judicial review of a proceeding under subpart B or subpart C, as applicable.
(c)
Manner of raising arguments.
An argument must be raised in a manner that complies with this part and that provides a fair opportunity to consider the argument.
(d)
Discretion to consider unpreserved arguments.
The Director has discretion to consider an unpreserved argument, including by considering it in the alternative. If the Director considers an unpreserved argument in the alternative, the argument remains unpreserved.
§ 1091.409
No limitation on relief sought in civil action or administrative adjudication.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to limit the relief the Bureau
may seek in any civil action or administrative adjudication, including but not limited to, seeking an order to have a person deemed subject to the Bureau's supervisory authority under 12 U.S.C. 5514, including for the reasons set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C).
Pt. 1092

# PART 1092—NONBANK REGISTRATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1092.100
Authority and purpose.
1092.101
General definitions.
1092.102
Submission and use of registration information.
1092.103
Severability.

# Subpart B—Registry of Nonbank Covered Persons Subject to Certain Agency and Court Orders
1092.200
Scope and purpose.
1092.201
Definitions.
1092.202
Registration and submission of information regarding covered orders.
1092.203
Optional one-time registration of NMLS-published covered orders.
1092.204
Annual reporting requirements for supervised registered entities.
1092.205
Publication and correction of registration information.
1092.206
Nonbank registry implementation dates.
Subpart C—[Reserved]
Appendix A to Part 1092—List of State Covered Laws

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5512(b) and (c); 12 U.S.C. 5514(b).

# Source:
89 FR 56150, July 8, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1092.100
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
The regulation in this part is issued by the Bureau pursuant to section 1022(b) and (c) and section 1024(b) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, codified at 12 U.S.C. 5512(b) and (c), and 12 U.S.C. 5514(b).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to prescribe rules governing the registration of nonbanks, and the collection and submission of registration information by such persons, and for public release of the collected information as appropriate.
(1) This subpart contains general provisions and definitions used in this part.
(2) Subpart B of this part sets forth requirements regarding the registration of nonbanks subject to certain agency and court orders.
§ 1092.101
General definitions.
For the purposes of this part, unless the context indicates otherwise, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Affiliate, consumer, consumer financial product or service, covered person,
Federal consumer financial law, insured credit union, person, related person, service provider,
and
State
have the same meanings as in 12 U.S.C. 5481.
(b)
Bureau
means the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
(c)
Include, includes,
and
including
mean that the items named may not encompass all possible items that are covered, whether like or unlike the items named.
(d)
Nonbank registry
means the Bureau's electronic registry identified and maintained by the Bureau for the purposes of this part.
(e)
Nonbank registry implementation date
means, for a given requirement or subpart of this part, or a given person or category of persons, the date(s) determined by the Bureau to commence the operations of the nonbank registry in connection with that requirement or subpart.
§ 1092.102
Submission and use of registration information.
(a)
Filing instructions.
The Bureau shall specify the form and manner for electronic filings and submissions to the nonbank registry that are required or made voluntarily under this part. The Bureau also may provide for extensions of deadlines or time periods prescribed by this part for persons affected by declared disasters or other emergency situations.
(b)
Coordination or combination of systems.
In administering the nonbank registry, the Bureau may rely on information a person previously submitted to the nonbank registry under this part and may coordinate or combine systems in consultation with State agencies as described in 12 U.S.C. 5512(c)(7)(C) and 12 U.S.C. 5514(b)(7)(D).
(c)
Bureau use of registration information.
The Bureau may use the information submitted to the nonbank registry under this part to support its objectives and functions, including in determining when to exercise its authority under 12 U.S.C. 5514 to conduct examinations and when to exercise its enforcement powers under subtitle E of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010. However, this part does not alter any applicable process whereby a person may dispute that it qualifies as a person subject to Bureau authority.
(d)
Calculation of time periods.
In computing any date or period of time prescribed by this part, exclude the day of the event that triggers the period; count every day, including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays; and include the last day of the period. If any provision of this part would establish a deadline for an action that is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the deadline is extended to the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.
§ 1092.103
Severability.
If any provision of this part, or any application of a provision, is stayed or determined to be invalid, the remaining provisions or applications are severable and shall continue in effect.

# Subpart B—Registry of Nonbank Covered Persons Subject to Certain Agency and Court Orders
§ 1092.200
Scope and purpose.
(a)
Scope.
This subpart requires nonbank covered persons that are subject to certain public agency and court orders to register with the Bureau and to submit a copy of each such public order to the Bureau. This subpart also requires certain nonbank covered persons that are supervised by the Bureau to prepare and submit an annual written statement, signed by a designated individual, regarding compliance with each such public order. Finally, this subpart also describes the registration information the Bureau may make publicly available.
(b)
Purpose.
The purposes of the information collection requirements contained in this subpart are:
(1) To support Bureau functions by monitoring for risks to consumers in the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services, including developments in markets for such products or services, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5512(c)(1);
(2) To prescribe rules regarding registration requirements applicable to nonbank covered persons, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5512(c)(7);
(3) To facilitate the supervision of persons described in 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(b);
(4) To assess and detect risks to consumers, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(b); and
(5) To ensure that persons described in 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1) are legitimate entities and are able to perform their obligations to consumers, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(b).
§ 1092.201
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart, unless the context indicates otherwise, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Administrative information
means contact information regarding persons subject to this subpart and other information submitted or collected to facilitate the administration of the nonbank registry including information submitted under §§ 1092.202(g) and 1092.204(f).
(b)
Attesting executive
means, with respect to any covered order regarding a supervised registered entity, the individual designated by the supervised registered entity to perform the supervised registered entity's duties with respect to the covered order under § 1092.204.
(c)
Covered law
means a law listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section, to the extent that the violation of law found or alleged arises out of conduct in connection with the offering or provision of a consumer financial product or service:
(1) A Federal consumer financial law;
(2) Any other law as to which the Bureau may exercise enforcement authority;
(3) The prohibition on unfair or deceptive acts or practices under section
5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 45, or any rule or order issued for the purpose of implementing that prohibition;
(4) A State law prohibiting unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices that is identified in appendix A to this part;
(5) A State law amending or otherwise succeeding a law identified in appendix A to this part, to the extent that such law is materially similar to its predecessor; or
(6) A rule or order issued by a State agency for the purpose of implementing a prohibition on unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices contained in a State law described in paragraph (c)(4) or (5) of this section.
(d)
Covered nonbank
means a covered person that is not any of the following:
(1) An insured depository institution or insured credit union;
(2) A person who is a covered person solely due to being a related person;
(3) A State;
(4) A natural person;
(5) A motor vehicle dealer that is predominantly engaged in the sale and servicing of motor vehicles, the leasing and servicing of motor vehicles, or both, within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 5519(a), except to the extent such a person engages in functions that are excepted from the application of 12 U.S.C. 5519(a) as described in 12 U.S.C. 5519(b); or
(6) A person that qualifies as a covered person based solely on conduct that is the subject of, and that is not otherwise exempted from, an exclusion from the Bureau's rulemaking authority under 12 U.S.C. 5517.
(e)
Covered order
—(1)
In general. Covered order
means a final public order issued by an agency or court, whether or not issued upon consent, that:
(i) Identifies a covered nonbank by name as a party subject to the order;
(ii) Was issued at least in part in any action or proceeding brought by any Federal agency, State agency, or local agency;
(iii) Contains public provisions that impose obligations on the covered nonbank to take certain actions or to refrain from taking certain actions;
(iv) Imposes such obligations on the covered nonbank based on an alleged violation of a covered law; and
(v) Has an effective date on or later than January 1, 2017.
(2)
Exception.
The term “covered order” does not include an order issued to a motor vehicle dealer that is predominantly engaged in the sale and servicing of motor vehicles, the leasing and servicing of motor vehicles, or both, within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 5519(a), except to the extent such order is in connection with the functions that are excepted from the application of 12 U.S.C. 5519(a) as described in 12 U.S.C. 5519(b).
(f)
Effective date
means, in connection with a covered order, the effective date as identified in the covered order; provided that if no other effective date is specified, then the date on which the covered order was issued shall be treated as the effective date for purposes of this subpart. If the issuing agency or a court stays or otherwise suspends the effectiveness of the covered order, the effective date shall be delayed until such time as the stay or suspension of effectiveness is lifted.
(g)
Identifying information
means existing information available to the covered nonbank that uniquely identifies the covered nonbank, including the entity's legal name, State (or other jurisdiction) of incorporation or organization, principal place of business address, any doing business as or fictitious business names, and any unique identifiers issued by a government agency or standards organization.
(h)
Insured depository institution
has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 5301(18)(A).
(i)
Local agency
means a regulatory or enforcement agency or authority of a county, city (whether general law or chartered), city and county, municipal corporation, district, or other political subdivision of a State, other than a State agency.
(j)
NMLS
means the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System.
(k)
NMLS-published covered order
means a covered order that is published on the NMLS Consumer Access website,
www.NMLSConsumerAccess.org,
except that no covered order issued or obtained at least in part by the Bureau
shall be an NMLS-published covered order.
(l)
Order
includes any written order or judgment issued by an agency or court in an investigation, matter, or proceeding.
(m)
Public
means, with respect to a covered order or any portion thereof, published by the issuing agency or court, or required by any provision of Federal, State, or local law, rule, or order to be published by the issuing agency or court. The term does not include orders or portions of orders that constitute confidential supervisory information of any Federal, State, or local agency.
(n)
Registered entity
means any person registered or required to be registered under this subpart.
(o)
Remain(s) in effect
means, with respect to any covered order, that the covered nonbank remains subject to public provisions that impose obligations on the covered nonbank to take certain actions or to refrain from taking certain actions based on an alleged violation of a covered law.
(p)
State agency
means the attorney general (or the equivalent thereof) of any State and any other State regulatory or enforcement agency or authority.
(q)
Supervised registered entity
means a registered entity that is subject to supervision and examination by the Bureau pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(a) except as provided in paragraphs (q)(1) through (4) of this section. For purposes of this definition, the term “subject to supervision and examination by the Bureau pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)” includes an entity that qualifies as a larger participant of a market for consumer financial products or services under any rule issued by the Bureau pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(B) and (a)(2), or that is subject to an order issued by the Bureau pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C). The term “supervised registered entity” does not include:
(1) A service provider that is subject to Bureau examination and supervision solely in its capacity as a service provider and that is not otherwise subject to Bureau supervision and examination;
(2) A motor vehicle dealer that is predominantly engaged in the sale and servicing of motor vehicles, the leasing and servicing of motor vehicles, or both, within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 5519(a), except to the extent such a person engages in functions that are excepted from the application of 12 U.S.C. 5519(a) as described in 12 U.S.C. 5519(b);
(3) A person that qualifies as a covered person based solely on conduct that is the subject of, and that is not otherwise exempted from, an exclusion from the Bureau's supervisory authority under 12 U.S.C. 5517; or
(4) A person with less than $5 million in annual receipts resulting from offering or providing all consumer financial products and services described in 12 U.S.C. 5514(a). For purposes of this exclusion:
(i) The term “annual receipts” has the same meaning as that term has in 12 CFR 1090.104(a); and
(ii) A person's receipts from offering or providing a consumer financial product or service subject to a larger participant rule under 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(B) count as receipts for purposes of the exclusion in this paragraph (q)(4) regardless of whether the person qualifies as a larger participant.
§ 1092.202
Registration and submission of information regarding covered orders.
(a)
Scope of registration requirement.
This section shall apply only with respect to covered orders with an effective date on or after the effective date of this subpart, or that remain in effect as of the effective date of this subpart.
(b)
Requirement to register and submit information regarding covered orders.
(1) Each covered nonbank that is identified by name as a party subject to a covered order described in paragraph (a) of this section shall register as a registered entity with the nonbank registry in accordance with this section if it is not already so registered, and shall provide or update, as applicable, the information described in this subpart in the form and manner specified by the Bureau.
(2) Each covered nonbank required to register under this section shall:
(i) Submit a filing containing the information described in paragraphs (c)
and (d) of this section to the nonbank registry within the later of 90 days after the applicable nonbank registry implementation date under § 1092.206 or 90 days after the effective date of any applicable covered order; and
(ii) Submit a revised filing amending any information described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section to the nonbank registry within 90 days after any amendments are made to the covered order or any of the information described in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section changes.
(c)
Required identifying information and administrative information.
A registered entity shall provide all identifying information and administrative information required by the nonbank registry. In filing instructions issued pursuant to § 1092.102(a), the Bureau may require that covered nonbanks that are affiliates make joint or combined submissions under this section.
(d)
Information regarding covered orders.
A registered entity shall provide the following information for each covered order subject to this section:
(1) A fully executed, accurate, and complete copy of the covered order, in a format specified by the Bureau; provided that any portions of a covered order that are not public shall not be submitted, and these portions shall be clearly marked on the copy submitted;
(2) In connection with each applicable covered order, information identifying:
(i) The agency(ies) and court(s) that issued or obtained the covered order, as applicable;
(ii) The effective date of the covered order;
(iii) The date of expiration, if any, of the covered order, or a statement that there is none;
(iv) All covered laws found to have been violated or, for orders issued upon the parties' consent, alleged to have been violated; and
(v) Any docket, case, tracking, or other similar identifying number(s) assigned to the covered order by the applicable agency(ies) or court(s).
(3) If the registered entity is a supervised registered entity, the name and title of its attesting executive for purposes of § 1092.204 with respect to the covered order.
(e)
Expiration of covered order status.
A covered order shall cease to be a covered order for purposes of this subpart as of the later of:
(1) Ten years after its effective date; or
(2) If the covered order expressly provides for a termination date more than ten years after its effective date, the expressly provided termination date.
(f)
Requirement to submit revised and final filings with respect to certain covered orders.
(1) If a covered order is terminated, modified, or abrogated (whether by its own terms, by action of the applicable agency, or by a court), or if an order ceases to be a covered order for purposes of this subpart by operation of paragraph (e) of this section, the registered entity shall submit a revised filing to the nonbank registry within 90 days after the effective date of such termination, modification, or abrogation, or the date such order ceases to be a covered order.
(2) If, due to such termination, modification, or abrogation of a covered order, or due to the application of paragraph (e) of this section, the order no longer remains in effect or is no longer a covered order, then, following its final filing under paragraph (f)(1) of this section with respect to such covered order, the registered entity will have no further obligation to update its filing or to file written statements with respect to such covered order under this subpart.
(g)
Notification by certain persons of non-registration under this section.
A person may submit a notice to the nonbank registry stating that it is not registering pursuant to this section because it has a good-faith basis to believe that it is not a covered nonbank or that an order in question is not a covered order. Such person shall promptly comply with this section upon becoming aware of facts or circumstances that would not permit it to continue representing that it has a good-faith basis to believe that it is not a covered nonbank or that an order in question is not a covered order.
§ 1092.203
Optional one-time registration of NMLS-published covered orders.
(a)
One-time registration option with respect to an NMLS-published covered order.
With respect to any NMLS-published covered order, a covered nonbank that is identified by name as a party subject to the order may elect to comply with the one-time registration option described in this section in lieu of complying with the requirements of §§ 1092.202 and 1092.204.
(b)
Information to be provided.
The covered nonbank, in the form and manner specified by the Bureau, shall provide such information that the Bureau determines is appropriate for the purpose of identifying the covered nonbank and the NMLS-published covered order, and otherwise for the purpose of coordinating the nonbank registry with the NMLS.
(c)
No further obligation to provide or update information with respect to the NMLS-published covered order.
Upon providing such information, the covered nonbank shall have no further obligation under this subpart to provide information to, or update information provided to, the nonbank registry regarding the NMLS-published covered order.
§ 1092.204
Annual reporting requirements for supervised registered entities.
(a)
Scope of annual reporting requirements.
(1) This section shall apply only with respect to covered orders with an effective date on or after the applicable nonbank registry implementation date under § 1092.206 and as to which information is provided or required to be provided under § 1092.202.
(2) A supervised registered entity is not required to comply with this section with respect to any NMLS-published covered order for which it chooses to comply with the one-time registration option described in § 1092.203.
(b)
Requirement to designate attesting executive.
Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, a supervised registered entity subject to a covered order shall designate as its attesting executive for the covered order for purposes of this subpart its highest-ranking duly appointed senior executive officer (or, if the supervised registered entity does not have any duly appointed officers, the highest-ranking individual charged with managerial or oversight responsibility for the supervised registered entity) whose assigned duties include ensuring the supervised registered entity's compliance with Federal consumer financial law, who has knowledge of the entity's systems and procedures for achieving compliance with the covered order, and who has control over the entity's efforts to comply with the covered order. The supervised registered entity shall annually designate one attesting executive for each such covered order to which it is subject and for all submissions and other purposes related to that covered order under this subpart. The supervised registered entity shall authorize the attesting executive to perform the duties of an attesting executive on behalf of the supervised registered entity with respect to the covered order as required in this section, including submitting the written statement described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Requirement to provide attesting executive(s) with access to documents and information.
A supervised registered entity subject to this section shall provide its attesting executive(s) with prompt access to all documents and information related to the supervised registered entity's compliance with all applicable covered order(s) as necessary to make the written statement(s) required in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Annual requirement to submit written statement to the Bureau for each covered order.
On or before March 31 of each calendar year, the supervised registered entity shall, in the form and manner specified by the Bureau, submit to the nonbank registry a written statement with respect to each covered order described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to which it is subject. The written statement shall be signed by the attesting executive on behalf of the supervised registered entity. In the written statement, the attesting executive shall:
(1) Generally describe the steps that the attesting executive has undertaken to review and oversee the supervised registered entity's activities subject to
the applicable covered order for the preceding calendar year; and
(2) Attest whether, to the attesting executive's knowledge, the supervised registered entity during the preceding calendar year identified any violations or other instances of noncompliance with any obligations that were imposed in a public provision of the covered order by the applicable agency or court based on a violation of a covered law.
(e)
Requirement to maintain and make available related records.
A supervised registered entity shall maintain documents and other records sufficient to provide reasonable support for its written statement under paragraph (d) of this section and to otherwise demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this section with respect to any submission under this section, for five years after such submission is required. The supervised registered entity shall make such documents and other records available to the Bureau upon request.
(f)
Notification of entity's good-faith belief that requirements do not apply.
A person may submit a notice to the nonbank registry stating that it is neither designating an attesting executive nor submitting a written statement pursuant to this section because it has a good-faith basis to believe that it is not a supervised registered entity or that an order in question is not a covered order. Such person shall promptly comply with this section upon becoming aware of facts or circumstances that would not permit it to continue representing that it has a good-faith basis to believe that it is not a supervised registered entity or that an order in question is not a covered order.
§ 1092.205
Publication and correction of registration information.
(a)
Internet publication of registration information.
The Bureau may make available to the public the information submitted to the nonbank registry pursuant to §§ 1092.202 and 1092.203 by means that include publishing such information on the Bureau's publicly available internet site within a timeframe determined by the Bureau in its discretion, except that:
(1) The publication described in this paragraph (a) will not include the written statement submitted under § 1092.204, which will be treated as Bureau confidential supervisory information subject to the provisions of 12 CFR part 1070 of this chapter; and
(2) The publication described in this paragraph (a) will not include administrative information.
(b)
Other publications of information.
In addition to the publication described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Bureau may, at its discretion, compile and aggregate information submitted by persons pursuant to this subpart and make any compilations or aggregations of such information publicly available as the Bureau deems appropriate.
(c)
Correction of submissions to the nonbank registry.
If any information submitted to the nonbank registry under this subpart was inaccurate when submitted and remains inaccurate, the covered nonbank shall file a corrected report in the form and manner specified by the Bureau within 30 days after the date on which such covered nonbank becomes aware or has reason to know of the inaccuracy. In addition, the Bureau may at any time and in its discretion direct a covered nonbank to correct errors or other non-compliant submissions to the nonbank registry made under this subpart.
§ 1092.206
Nonbank registry implementation dates.
(a)
Applicable dates.
The applicable nonbank registry implementation date for purposes of this subpart shall be as follows:
(1) For a covered nonbank that is a larger participant of a market for consumer financial products or services described under 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(B) as defined by one or more rules issued by the Bureau, 30 days after this subpart takes effect with respect to that covered nonbank;
(2) For a covered nonbank described under any other provision of 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), 120 days after this subpart takes effect with respect to that covered nonbank; and
(3) For any other covered nonbank, 210 days after this subpart takes effect with respect to that covered nonbank.
(b)
Calculation of dates.
If paragraph (a) of this section would establish a
nonbank registry implementation date on a date that is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the applicable nonbank registry implementation date will be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.
Subpart C—[Reserved]

# Appendix A to Part 1092—List of State Covered Laws

# Alabama
• Ala. Code sec. 5-18A-13(j).
• Ala. Code sec. 8-19-5.

# Alaska
• Alaska Stat. sec. 06.20.200.
• Alaska Stat. sec. 06.40.090.
• Alaska Stat. sec. 06.60.320.
• Alaska Stat. sec. 06.60.340.
• Alaska Stat. sec. 45.50.471.

# Arizona
• Ariz. Rev. Stat. sec. 6-611.
• Ariz. Rev. Stat. sec. 6-710(8).
• Ariz. Rev. Stat. sec. 6-909(C).
• Ariz. Rev. Stat. sec. 6-947(D).
• Ariz. Rev. Stat. sec. 6-984(D).
• Ariz. Rev. Stat. sec. 6-1309(A).
• Ariz. Rev. Stat. sec. 44-1522(A).
• Ariz. Rev. Stat. sec. 44-1703(4).

# Arkansas
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 4-75-208(a).
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 4-88-107.
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 4-88-108(a)(1).
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 4-88-304(a).
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 4-90-705.
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 4-107-203.
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 4-112-101 to 4-112-114.
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 4-115-102.
• Ark. Code Ann. sec. 23-39-405.

# California
• Cal. Bus.
Prof. Code sec. 17200 to 17209.
• Cal. Bus.
Prof. Code sec. 17500.
• Cal. Civ. Code sec. 1770.
• Cal. Civ. Code sec. 1788.101(a), (b)(1), (7), (8), (9), (10).
• Cal. Fin. Code sec. 4995.3(b).
• Cal. Fin. Code sec. 22755(b), (i).
• Cal. Fin. Code sec. 90003.

# Colorado
• Colo. Rev. Stat. sec. 5-3.1-121.
• Colo. Rev. Stat. sec. 5-20-109(b).
• Colo. Rev. Stat. sec. 6-1-105.

# Connecticut
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 36a-267.
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 36a-498(g)(2).
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 36a-539(d)(2), (6).
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 36a-561(3), (4).
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 36a-580 to 36a-589.
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 36a-607(c)(2)(5).
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 36a-646.
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 36a-700.
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 42-110b.
• Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 42-240 to 42-253.

# Delaware
• Del. Code Ann. tit. 5, sec. 2114.
• Del. Code Ann. tit. 5, sec. 2209(a)(3).
• Del. Code Ann. tit. 5, sec. 2315(a)(3).
• Del. Code Ann. tit. 5, sec. 2418(2), (9).
• Del. Code Ann. tit. 5, sec. 2904(a)(3).
• Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, sec. 2513.
• Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, sec. 2532, 2533.

# District of Columbia
• D.C. Code sec. 26-1114(d)(2), (9).
• D.C. Code sec. 28-3814.
• D.C. Code sec. 28-3904.

# Florida
• Fla. Stat. sec. 501.97.
• Fla. Stat. sec. 501.204.
• Fla. Stat. sec. 560.114(1)(d).
• Fla. Stat. sec. 560.309(10).
• Fla. Stat. sec. 560.406(2).
• Fla. Stat. sec. 687.141(2), (3).
• Fla. Stat. sec. 817.801 to 817.806.

# Georgia
• Ga. Code Ann. sec. 7-7-2(1), (3), (4).
• Ga. Code Ann. sec. 10-1-372.
• Ga. Code Ann. sec. 10-1-393.

# Hawaii
• Haw. Rev. Stat. sec. 443B-18.
• Haw. Rev. Stat. sec. 454F-17(2), (9), (14).
• Haw. Rev. Stat. sec. 477E-1 to 477E-6.
• Haw. Rev. Stat. sec. 480-2.
• Haw. Rev. Stat. sec. 480J-45(7), (10).
• Haw. Rev. Stat. sec. 481A-3.
• Haw. Rev. Stat. sec. 489D-23(2), (4).

# Idaho
• Idaho Code sec. 26-31-317(2), (9).
• Idaho Code sec. 26-2505(2).
• Idaho Code sec. 28-46-413(8).
• Idaho Code sec. 48-603.
• Idaho Code sec. 48-603A.

# Illinois
• 815 Ill. Comp. Stat. sec. 122/4-5(3), (8).
• 815 Ill. Comp. Stat. sec. 505/2 to 505/2AAAA.
• 815 Ill. Comp. Stat. sec. 510/2.
• 815 Ill. Comp. Stat. sec. 635/7-13(2), (9).

# Indiana
• Ind. Code sec. 24-4.4-3-104.6(b), (i).
• Ind. Code sec. 24-4.5-7-410(c), (g).
• Ind. Code sec. 24-5-0.5-3.
• Ind. Code sec. 24-5-0.5-10.

# Iowa
• Iowa Code sec. 535D.17(2), (9).
• Iowa Code sec. 537.3209(1).
• Iowa Code sec. 538A.3(4).
• Iowa Code sec. 714.16(2)(a).
• Iowa Code sec. 714H.3.

# Kansas
• Kan. Stat. Ann. sec. 50-626.
• Kan. Stat. Ann. sec. 50-1017(2), (3).

# Kentucky
• Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 286.9-100(7).
• Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 286.11-039(f).
• Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 286.12-110(1)(a)(4).
• Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 365.050.
• Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 367.170.
• Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 367.381(2).
• Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 380.010 to 380.990.

# Louisiana
• La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 6:1055.
• La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 6:1092(D)(2), (9).
• La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 6:1393(A)(3)(b).
• La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 6:1412(A)(2).
• La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 9:3574.3(2), (3).
• La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 51:1405.
• La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 51:1915.

# Maine
• Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 5, sec. 207.
• Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 9-A, sec. 5-118(2), (3), (4).
• Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 9-B, sec. 242.
• Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 10, sec. 1212.
• Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 32, sec. 6155(1).
• Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 32, sec. 6198(5).

# Maryland
• Md. Code Ann., Com. Law sec. 12-1208(2).
• Md. Code Ann., Com. Law sec. 13-303.
• Md. Code Ann., Com. Law sec. 14-1302(b).
• Md. Code Ann., Com. Law sec. 14-1323.
• Md. Code Ann., Com. Law sec. 14-1914(a).
• Md. Code Ann., Com. Law sec. 14-3807.
• Md. Code Ann., Educ. sec. 26-601 to 26-604.
• Md. Code Ann., Fin. Inst. sec. 12-1001 to 12-1017.
• Md. Code Ann., Real Prop. sec. 7-501 to 7-511.

# Massachusetts
• Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 93, sec. 105(d).
• Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 93A, sec. 2.
• Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 93L, sec. 8.

# Michigan
• Mich. Comp. Laws sec. 445.903.
• Mich. Comp. Laws sec. 445.1823(e).

# Minnesota
• Minn. Stat. sec. 58B.07(2).
• Minn. Stat. sec. 325D.09.
• Minn. Stat. sec. 325D.44.
• Minn. Stat. sec. 325F.67.
• Minn. Stat. sec. 325F.69.
• Minn. Stat. sec. 332A.02-332A.19.

# Mississippi
• Miss. Code Ann. sec. 75-24-5.
• Miss. Code Ann. sec. 75-67-109.
• Miss. Code Ann. sec. 75-67-445.
• Miss. Code Ann. sec. 75-67-516.
• Miss. Code Ann. sec. 75-67-617.
• Miss. Code Ann. sec. 81-18-27(h).
• Miss. Code Ann. sec. 81-19-23(b)(i).

# Missouri
• Mo. Rev. Stat. sec. 407.020.
• Mo. Rev. Stat. sec. 443.737(2), (9).

# Montana
• Mont. Code Ann. sec. 30-14-103.
• Mont. Code Ann. sec. 30-14-2001 to 30-14-2015.
• Mont. Code Ann. sec. 30-14-2103(1)(f).
• Mont. Code Ann. sec. 31-1-723(5), (7), (18).
• Mont. Code Ann. sec. 31-1-724(2).
• Mont. Code Ann. sec. 32-5-309.

# Nebraska
• Neb. Rev. Stat. sec. 45-804(5).
• Neb. Rev. Stat. sec. 45-812.
• Neb. Rev. Stat. sec. 45-919(1)(j).
• Neb. Rev. Stat. sec. 59-1602.
• Neb. Rev. Stat. sec. 87-302.

# Nevada
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 598.746(5).
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 598.787.
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 598.0915 to 598.0925.
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 604A.5021(5), (6).
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 604A.5049(5), (6).
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 604A.5072(5), (6).
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 604A.582.
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 604A.592.
• Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 675.280.

# New Hampshire
• N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 358-A:2.
• N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 383:10-h.
• N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 397-A:14(g), (n).
• N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 399-A:14(I).
• N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 399-F:4(III).

# New Jersey
• N.J. Stat. Ann. sec. 17:11C-41(g).
• N.J. Stat. Ann. sec. 17:16F-39(b).
• N.J. Stat. Ann. sec. 17:16ZZ-9(b).
• N.J. Stat. Ann. sec. 56:8-2.

# New Mexico
• N.M. Stat. Ann. sec. 57-12-3.
• N.M. Stat. Ann. sec. 58-7-8(C).
• N.M. Stat. Ann. sec. 58-15-3(G).
• N.M. Stat. Ann. sec. 58-21-21.
• N.M. Stat. Ann. sec. 58-21A-12.
• N.M. Stat. Ann. sec. 58-21B-13(C)(2), (9).

# New York
• N.Y. Banking Law sec. 719(2), (9).
• N.Y. Exec. Law sec. 63(12).
• N.Y. Fin. Serv. sec. 702(i).
• N.Y. Gen. Bus. Law sec. 349.
• N.Y. Gen. Bus. Law sec. 458-e.
• N.Y. Gen. Bus. Law sec. 458-h.
• N.Y. Gen. Bus. Law sec. 521-d.
• N.Y. Gen. Bus. Law sec. 741.
• N.Y. Real Prop. Law sec. 280-b(2).

# North Carolina
• N.C. Gen. Stat. sec. 25A-44(4).
• N.C. Gen. Stat. sec. 53-180(g).
• N.C. Gen. Stat. sec. 53-270(4).
• N.C. Gen. Stat. sec. 66-106 to 66-112.
• N.C. Gen. Stat. sec. 75-1.1.
• N.C. Gen. Stat. sec. 75-121.
• N.C. Gen. Stat. sec. 75-122.

# North Dakota
• N.D. Cent. Code sec. 13-04.1-09(4), (10).
• N.D. Cent. Code sec. 13-08-12(9).
• N.D. Cent. Code sec. 13-10-17(2).
• N.D. Cent. Code sec. 13-11-23(1)(p).
• N.D. Cent. Code sec. 51-15-02.
• N.D. Cent. Code sec. 51-15-02.3.

# Ohio
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 1321.11.
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 1321.41(N).
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 1321.44.
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 1321.60(A).
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 1321.651(B).
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 1322.40(I).
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 1345.02.
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 1345.21 to 1345.28.
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 4165.02.
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 4710.02(F)(1).
• Ohio Rev. Code Ann. sec. 4710.04.

# Oklahoma
• Okla. Stat. Ann. tit. 15, sec. 753(21), (29).
• Okla. Stat. Ann. tit. 59, sec. 2095.18(2), (9).
• Okla. Stat. Ann. tit. 59, sec. 3111.
• Okla. Stat. Ann. tit. 78, sec. 53.

# Oregon
• Or. Rev. Stat. sec. 86A.163.
• Or. Rev. Stat. sec. 86A.236(3), (5), (13).
• Or. Rev. Stat. sec. 646.607.
• Or. Rev. Stat. sec. 646.608(1)(d), (u).
• Or. Rev. Stat. sec. 646A.720(10).
• Or. Rev. Stat. sec. 725.060.
• Or. Rev. Stat. sec. 725A.058.

# Pennsylvania
• 7 PA. Cons. Stat. sec. 6123(a)(3).
• 18 PA. Cons. Stat. sec. 7311(b.1).
• 73 PA. Cons. Stat. sec. 201-3.
• 73 PA. Cons. Stat. sec. 2183(4).
• 73 PA. Cons. Stat. sec. 2188(c)(2).
• 73 PA. Cons. Stat. sec. 2270.4.
• 73 PA. Cons. Stat. sec. 2270.5.
• 73 PA. Cons. Stat. sec. 2501 to 2511.

# Rhode Island
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 5-80-8(5).
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 6-13.1-2.
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 6-13.1-21 to 6-13.1-23.
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 6-13.1-25.
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 6-13.1-30.
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 19-14-21(a).
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 19-14.3-3.8(8), (9).
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 19-14.8-28(a)(16).
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 19-14.10-17(2), (9).
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 19-14.11-4(2).
• R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 19-33-12(2).

# South Carolina
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 34-29-120.
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 34-36-10 to 34-36-80.
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 34-39-200(3), (5).
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 34-41-80(3), (5).
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 37-2-304(1).
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 37-3-304(1).
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 37-6-118.
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 37-7-101 to 37-7-122.
• S.C. Code Ann. sec. 39-5-20.

# South Dakota
• S.D. Codified Laws sec. 37-24-6.
• S.D. Codified Laws sec. 37-25A-43.
• S.D. Codified Laws sec. 54-4-63.

# Tennessee
• Tenn. Code Ann. sec. 45-13-401(8).
• Tenn. Code Ann. sec. 45-17-112(k).
• Tenn. Code Ann. sec. 45-18-121(g).
• Tenn. Code Ann. sec. 47-16-101 to 47-16-110.
• Tenn. Code Ann. sec. 47-18-104.
• Tenn. Code Ann. sec. 47-18-120.
• Tenn. Code Ann. sec. 47-18-1003(4).
• Tenn. Code Ann. sec. 47-18-5402(a)(1).

# Texas
• Tex. Bus.
Com. Code Ann. sec. 17.46.
• Tex. Bus.
Com. Code Ann. sec. 17.50.
• Tex. Bus.
Com. Code Ann. sec. 17.501.
• Tex. Fin. Code Ann. sec. 180.153(2), (11).
• Tex. Fin. Code Ann. sec. 308.002.
• Tex. Fin. Code Ann. sec. 341.403.
• Tex. Fin. Code Ann. sec. 392.303 to 392.304.
• Tex. Fin. Code Ann. sec. 393.305.
• Tex. Fin. Code Ann. sec. 394.207.
• Tex. Fin. Code Ann. sec. 394.212(a)(9).

# Utah
• Utah Code Ann. sec. 13-11-4.
• Utah Code Ann. sec. 13-11-4.1.
• Utah Code Ann. sec. 13-11a-4.
• Utah Code Ann. sec. 13-21-3(1)(g).

# Vermont
• Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 8, sec. 2121.
• Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 8, sec. 2241(2), (9).
• Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 8, sec. 2251 to 2260.
• Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 8, sec. 2760b(b).
• Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 8, sec. 2922.
• Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 9, sec. 2453.
• Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 9, sec. 2481w(b), (c), (d).

# Virginia
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-1524(B).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-1614(8)(a).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-1629(A).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-1715(A)(1).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-1816(26).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-1819(A).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-2017.
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-2107(3), (4).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 6.2-2610(A)(2), (C).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 59.1-200(A).
• Va. Code. Ann. sec. 59.1-335.5(4).

# Washington
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 18.28.120(6).
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 18.44.301(2), (4).
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.16.110.
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.16.250.
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.16.260.
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.16.440.
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.86.020.
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.134.020(1)(e).
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.146.0201(2), (7).
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.144.080(1)(a)(ii).
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.146.100.
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.230.340(2), (4).
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 19.265.050(3).
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 31.04.027.
• Wash. Rev. Code sec. 31.45.105(1)(a), (b).

# West Virginia
• W. Va. Code sec. 31-17-10.
• W. Va. Code sec. 31-17A-16(2), (9).
• W. Va. Code sec. 32A-2-26.
• W. Va. Code sec. 46A-6-104.
• W. Va. Code sec. 46A-6C-3(4).

# Wisconsin
• Wis. Stat. sec. 100.18.
• Wis. Stat. sec. 100.20.
• Wis. Stat. sec. 100.55(3).
• Wis. Stat. sec. 138.14(12)(e).
• Wis. Stat. sec. 224.77(1)(b), (c).
• Wis. Stat. sec. 422.503(c).
• Wis. Stat. sec. 423.301.
• Wis. Stat. sec. 427.104(1)(m).

# Wyoming
• Wyo. Stat. Ann. sec. 40-12-105.
PARTS 1093-1099 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
12 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
12 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter X
1026 Policy statement
26319, 38299, 79400, 79404
1026.43 (e)(4)(iii)(B) revised
67958
1026.43 (b)(4), (e)(2)(v), (vi), (4), (5)(i)(A), (B), (f)(1)(i), and (iii) revised; eff. 3-1-21
86394
1026.43 (e)(1) and (2) introductory text revised; (e)(7) added; eff. 3-1-21
86452
1026 Appendix Q removed; eff. 3-1-21
86395
1026 Supplement I amended
50947, 67958, 79388, 79397, 83413
1026 Supplement I amended; eff. 3-1-21
86395, 86453
1041 Notification
41905
1041.1 (b) amended
44444
1041.2 (a)(14) and (19) removed
44444
1041.4—1041.6 (Subpart B) Removed
44444
1041.10—1041.15 (Subpart D) Heading revised
44444
1041.10 Removed
44444
1041.11 Removed
44444
1041.12 (b)(1) revised; (b)(2) and (3) removed
44444
1041.15 (d) removed
44445
1041 Appendix A amended
44445
1041 Supplement I amended
44445
1070.2 Revised
75216
1070.40—1070.48 (Subpart D) Revised
75217
1083.1 Revised
2014
1091.103 (a)(2)(vii) revised
75220
1091.115 (c) revised
75220
2021
12 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter X
1026 Policy statement
11623, 17693, 17697, 17698, 44267
1026 Notification
26953
1026.9 (c)(1)(ii) and (2)(v)(A) revised; eff. 4-1-22
69781
1026.35 (a)(3), (4), and (b)(2)(vi) added; (b)(2)(iii)(D)(
1
), (iv)(A), and (v) revised
9852
1026.36 (a)(4)(iii)(C) and (5)(iii)(B) amended; eff. 4-1-22
69781
1026.40 (f)(3)(ii) revised; eff. 4-1-22
69781
1026.43 Correction: (e)(1) and (2) introductory text revised; (e)(7) added
8283
1026.43 (e)(2)(vi) introductory text revised
60360
1026.52 (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) revised
60360
1026.55 (b)(7) added; eff. 4-1-22
69782
1026.59 (f)(3) and (h)(3) added; eff. 4-1-22
69782
1026 Appendix H amended; eff. 4-1-22
69782
1026 Appendix H amended; eff. 10-1-23
69786
1026 Supplement I amended
9852, 22859, 29686, 60360, 67847, 67856, 72822
1026 Supplement I amended; eff. 4-1-22
69788
1070.50 (b)(1) revised
48901
1070.53 (c) revised
48901
1074 Heading revised
9268
1074.1 Redesignated as Subpart A
9268
1074.2—1074.3 (Subpart B) Added
9268
1074 Appendix A added
9268
1083.1 Revised
3768
2022
12 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter X
1026 Notification
76551
1026 Supplement I amended
63666, 63675, 78834, 80436
1081 Revised
10034
1083.1 Revised
2316
1091.115 (a) heading and (b) heading added; (c) revised
25398
1091.115 (c)(2) revised
70707
2023
12 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter X
Heading revised
16537
1026 Determination
19214
1026.2 (a)(28) added; interim
30622
1026.40 (f)(3)(ii)(B) revised; interim
30622
1026.55 (b)(7)(ii) revised; interim
30622
1026.59 (f)(3) revised; interim
30623
1026 Appendix A through Appendix C amended
16543
1026 Supplement I amended
16543
1026 Supplement I amended; interim
30623
1026 Supplement I correctly amended
58070
1026 Supplement I amended
65115, 83315, 83327, 88224
1030 Appendix C amended
16543
1081 Policy statement
18382
1083.1 Revised
2
2024
12 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
1026 Policy statement
47068, 68086
1026 Authority citation revised; eff. 10-1-25
64577
1026.1 (c)(6) added; eff. 10-1-25
64577
1026.2 (a)(11) revised; eff. 10-1-25
64577
(a)(15) revised; eff. 10-1-25
106837
1026.3 (i) added; eff. 10-1-25
64577
1026.4 (b)(2) and (c)(3) revised; (b)(12) added; eff. 10-1-25
106837
1026.42 (a) revised; (i) added; eff. 10-1-25
64577
1026.52 (b)(1)(ii) revised; (b)(3) added
19202
1026.58 (b)(6) revised
19202
1026.60 (a)(5) revised; eff. 10-1-25
106837
1026.62 Added; eff. 10-1-25
106837
1026 Appendix G amended
19203
1026 Supplement I amended
19213, 82934, 82942, 95083, 104400
Supplement I amended; eff. 10-1-25
64578, 106838
1033 Added
49090
Revised; eff. 1-17-25
90989
1070.2 (a) revised
94601
1070.42 Nomenclature change
94601
1080.2 Amended
94601
1080.4 Amended
94601
1080.6 (a), (c) introductory text, (d), (e) introductory text, and (2) amended
94601
1080.10 (b) amended
94601
1080.11 (c) amended
94601
1081 Nomenclature change
94601
1081.103 Amended
94601
1082.1 Nomenclature change; (a)(1) amended
94601
1083.1 Revised
1789
1090.101 Amended
94601
1090.103 Nomenclature change
94601
1090.109 Added; eff. 1-9-25
99653
1091 Revised
30264
1092 Added
56150
○
