Dec. 16, 2024(fm)
Title 15
Commerce and Foreign Trade
Part 800 to End
Revised as of January 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of January 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
vi

# Title 15:

# SUBTITLE B—
Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade (Continued)
Chapter VIII—Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce
5
Chapter IX—National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
19
Chapter XI—National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce
495
Chapter XIII—East-West Foreign Trade Board
509
Chapter XIV—Minority Business Development Agency
513
Chapter XV—Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
519

# SUBTITLE C—
Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
Chapter XX—Office of the United States Trade Representative
539

# SUBTITLE D—
Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information

# [Reserved]

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
601
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
621
List of CFR Sections Affected
631
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
15 CFR 801.1
refers to title 15, part 801, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, January 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is in fact available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or call 202-741-6010.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
January 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 15—
Commerce and Foreign Trade
is composed of four volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 0-299, 300-744, 745-799, and part 800-End. The first volume containing parts 0-299 is comprised of Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce, Subtitle B, chapter I—Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce, and chapter II—National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce. The second volume containing parts 300-744, is comprised of a portion of chapter III—International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. The third volume containing parts 745-799 is comprised of the remainder of chapter III—International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce, chapter IV—Foreign-Trade Zones Board, and chapter VII—Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce. The fourth volume containing part 800-End is comprised of chapter VIII—Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce, chapter IX—National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, chapter XI—Technology Administration, Department of Commerce, chapter XIII—East-West Foreign Trade Board, chapter XIV—Minority Business Development Agency, chapter XV—Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce, Subtitle C, chapter XX—Office of the United States Trade Representative, and Subtitle D, chapter XXIII—National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of January 1, 2025.
For this volume, Cheryl E. Sirofchuck was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
15 CFR Ch. VIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Bur. of Economic Analysis, Comm.

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
(This book contains part 800-end)

# SUBTITLE B—
Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade (Continued)
Part
chapter viii
—Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce
801
chapter ix
—National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
902
chapter xi
—National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce
1180
chapter xiii
—East-West Foreign Trade Board
1300
chapter xiv
—Minority Business Development Agency
1400
chapter xv
—Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
1500

# SUBTITLE C—
Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
chapter xx
—Office of the United States Trade Representative
2001

# SUBTITLE D—
Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information

# Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade (Continued)

# CHAPTER VIII—BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Part
Page
800
[Reserved]
801
Survey of international trade in services between U.S. and foreign persons and surveys of direct investment
7
806-899
[Reserved]
PART 800 [RESERVED]
Pt. 801

# PART 801—SURVEY OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN SERVICES BETWEEN U.S. AND FOREIGN PERSONS AND SURVEYS OF DIRECT INVESTMENT
Sec.
801.1
Purpose.
801.2
Definitions.
801.3
Reporting requirements.
801.4
Recordkeeping requirements.
801.5
Confidentiality.
801.6
Penalties specified by law.
801.7
Rules and regulations for the BE-13, Survey of New Foreign Direct Investment in the United States.
801.8
Rules and regulations for the BE-10, Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad.
801.9
[Reserved]
801.10
Rules and regulations for BE-12, Benchmark Survey of Foreign Direct Investment in the United States.
801.11
Rules and regulations for the BE-120 Benchmark Survey of Transactions in Selected Services and Intellectual Property with Foreign Persons.
801.12
Rules and regulations for the BE-140 Benchmark Survey of Insurance Transactions by U.S. Insurance Companies with Foreign Persons.
801.13
Rules and regulations for the BE-180 Benchmark Survey of Financial Services Transactions between U.S. Financial Services Providers and Foreign Persons.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 15 U.S.C. 4908; 22 U.S.C. 3101-3108; E.O. 11961 (3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 86), as amended by E.O. 12318 (3 CFR, 1981 Comp. p. 173); and E.O. 12518 (3 CFR, 1985 Comp. p. 348).

# Source:
77 FR 24374, Apr. 24, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 801.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to provide general information on international trade in services and direct investment data collection programs and analyses under the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act (22 U.S.C. 3101 to 3108, as amended) (the Act). The purpose of the Act is to provide for the collection of comprehensive and reliable information pertaining to international investment, including international trade in services and direct investment, and to do so with a minimum of burden on respondents and with no unnecessary duplication of effort.
§ 801.2
Definitions.
For purposes of the Act and for reporting requirements under this part:
(a)
United States,
when used in a geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and all territories and possessions of the United States.
(b)
Foreign,
when used in a geographic sense, means that which is situated outside the United States or which belongs to or is characteristic of a country other than the United States.
(c)
Person
means any individual, branch, partnership, associated group, association, estate, trust, corporation, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State), and any government (including a foreign government, the United States Government, a State or local government, and any agency, corporation, financial institution, or other entity or instrumentality thereof, including a government-sponsored agency).
(d)
United States person
means any person resident in the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(e)
Foreign person
means any person resident outside the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of a country other than the United States.
(f)
Business enterprise
means any organization, association, branch, or venture which exists for profit-making purposes or to otherwise secure economic advantage, and any ownership of any real estate.
(g)
Services
are economic activities whose outputs are other than tangible goods. This term includes, but is not limited to, banking, other financial services, insurance, transportation, communications and data processing, retail and wholesale trade, advertising, accounting, construction, design, engineering, management consulting, real estate, professional services, entertainment, education, and health care.
(h)
International investment
means:
(1) The ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by contractual commitment or otherwise, by foreign persons
of any interest in property in the United States, or of stock, other securities, or short- and long-term debt obligations of a United States person; and
(2) The ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by contractual commitment or otherwise, by United States persons of any interest in property outside the United States, or of stock, other securities, or short- and long-term debt obligations of a foreign person.
(i)
Direct investment
means the ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by one person of 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated business enterprise or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated business enterprise.
§ 801.3
Reporting requirements.
Except for surveys subject to rulemaking in §§ 801.7, 801.8, 801.10, 801.11, 801.12, and 801.13, reporting requirements for all other surveys conducted by the Bureau of Economic Analysis shall be as follows:
(a) Notice of specific reporting requirements, including who is required to report, the information to be reported, the manner of reporting, and the time and place of filing reports, will be published by the Director of the Bureau of Economic Analysis in the
Federal Register
prior to the implementation of a survey;
(b) In accordance with section 3104(b)(2) of title 22 of the United States Code, persons notified of these surveys and subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall furnish, under oath, any report containing information which is determined to be necessary to carry out the surveys and studies provided for by the Act; and
(c) Persons not notified in writing of their filing obligation by the Bureau of Economic Analysis are not required to complete the survey.
[85 FR 31052, May 22, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 54887, Sept. 8, 2022]
§ 801.4
Recordkeeping requirements.
In accordance with section 3104(b)(1) of title 22 of the United States Code, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall maintain any information essential for carrying out the surveys and studies provided for by the Act.
[79 FR 47575, Aug. 14, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 53291, Sept. 9, 2014; 79 FR 69759, Nov. 24, 2014]
§ 801.5
Confidentiality.
Information collected pursuant to 3104(c) of title 22 of the United States Code is confidential.
(a) Access to this information shall be available only to officials and employees (including consultants and contractors and their employees) of agencies designated by the President to perform functions under the Act.
(b) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the President may authorize the exchange of information between agencies or officials designated to perform functions under the Act.
(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed to require any Federal agency to disclose information otherwise protected by law.
(d) This information shall be used solely for analytical or statistical purposes or for a proceeding under § 801.6.
(e) No official or employee (including consultants and contractors and their employees) shall publish or make available to any other person any information collected under the Act in such a manner that the person to whom the information relates can be specifically identified.
(f) Reports and copies of reports prepared pursuant to the Act are confidential and their submission or disclosure shall not be compelled by any person without the prior written permission of the person filing the report and the customer of such person where the information supplied is identifiable as being derived from the records of such customer.
§ 801.6
Penalties specified by law.
(a)
Civil penalties.
Whoever fails to furnish any information required by the Act or to comply with any rule, regulation, order or instruction promulgated under the Act shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $2,500, and not more than $25,000, and to injunctive relief commanding such person to comply, or both (see 22 U.S.C. 3105(a) and (b)). These civil penalties
are subject to inflationary adjustments (15 CFR 6.4.).
(b)
Criminal penalties.
Whoever willfully fails to submit any information required by the Act or willfully violates any rule, regulation, order or instruction promulgated under the Act, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $10,000 and, if an individual, may be imprisoned for not more than one year, or both. Any officer, director, employee, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violations, upon conviction, may be punished by a like fine, imprisonment or both (see 22 U.S.C. 3105(c)).
§ 801.7
Rules and regulations for the BE-13, Survey of New Foreign Direct Investment in the United States.
The BE-13, Survey of New Foreign Direct Investment in the United States, is conducted to collect data on the acquisition or establishment of U.S. business enterprises by foreign investors and the expansion of existing U.S. affiliates of foreign companies to establish new facilities where business is conducted. Foreign direct investment is defined as the ownership or control by one foreign person (foreign parent) of 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated U.S. business enterprise, or an equivalent interest of an unincorporated U.S. business enterprise, including a branch. BEA will describe the proposed information collection in a public notice and will solicit comments according to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520). All legal authorities, provisions, definitions, and requirements contained in §§ 801.1 and 801.2 and 801.4 through 801.6 are applicable to this survey. Specific additional rules and regulations for the BE-13 survey are given in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. More detailed instructions are given on the report forms and instructions.
(a)
Response required.
A response is required from persons subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-13, Survey of New Foreign Direct Investment in the United States, contained herein, whether or not they are contacted by BEA. Also, a person, or their agent, who is contacted by BEA about reporting in this survey, either by sending them a report form or by written inquiry, must respond in writing pursuant to this section. This may be accomplished by filing the properly completed BE-13 report (BE-13A, BE-13B, BE-13D, BE-13E, or BE-13 Claim for Exemption).
(b)
Who must report.
A BE-13 report is required of any U.S. business enterprise, except certain private funds, see exception in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, in which:
(1) A foreign direct investment in the United States relationship is created;
(2) An existing U.S. affiliate of a foreign parent establishes a new U.S. business enterprise, expands its U.S. operations, or acquires a U.S. business enterprise; or
(3) BEA requests a cost update (Form BE-13E) for a U.S. business enterprise that previously filed Form BE-13B or BE-13D.
(4) Certain private funds are exempt from reporting on the BE-13 survey. If a U.S. business enterprise is a private fund and does not own, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of another business enterprise that is not also a private fund or a holding company, it is not required to file any BE-13 report except to indicate exemption from the survey if contacted by BEA.
(c)
Forms to be filed.
Depending on the type of investment transaction, U.S. affiliates would report their information on one of five forms—BE-13A, BE-13B, BE-13D, BE-13E, or BE-13 Claim for Exemption.
(1) Form BE-13A—report for a U.S. business enterprise when a foreign entity acquires a voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in that U.S. business enterprise including segments, operating units, or real estate; and
(i) The total cost of the acquisition is greater than $3 million; and
(ii) By this acquisition, the foreign entity now owns at least 10 percent of the voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in the acquired U.S. business enterprise.
(2) Form BE-13B—report for a U.S. business enterprise when it is established by a foreign entity or by an existing U.S. affiliate of a foreign parent; and
(i) The expected total cost to establish the new U.S. business enterprise is greater than $3 million; and
(ii) The foreign entity owns at least 10 percent of the voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in the new U.S. business enterprise.
(3) Form BE-13D—report for an existing U.S. affiliate of a foreign parent when it expands its operations to include a new facility where business is conducted, and the expected total cost of the expansion is greater than $3 million.
(4) Form BE-13E—report for a U.S. business enterprise that previously filed Form BE-13B or BE-13D. Form BE-13E collects updated cost information and will be collected annually for three years after the year of the establishment or expansion of the U.S. business enterprise.
(5) Form BE-13 Claim for Exemption—report for a U.S. business enterprise that:
(i) Was contacted by BEA but does not meet the requirements for filing Forms BE-13A, BE-13B, or BE-13D; or
(ii) Whether or not contacted by BEA, met all requirements for filing Forms BE-13A, BE-13B, or BE-13D except the $3 million reporting threshold.
(d)
Due date.
The BE-13 forms are due no later than 45 calendar days after the acquisition is completed, the new U. S. business enterprise is established, the expansion is begun, the cost update is requested, or a notification letter is received from BEA by a U.S. business enterprise that does not meet the filing requirements for the survey.
[87 FR 58956, Sept. 29, 2022]
§ 801.8
Rules and regulations for the BE-10, Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad.
A BE-10, Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad, will be conducted every five years and covers years ending in 4 and 9. All legal authorities, provisions, definitions, and requirements contained in §§ 801.1 and 801.2 and 801.4 through 801.6 are applicable to this survey. Specific additional rules and regulations for the BE-10 survey are given in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. More detailed instructions are given on the report forms and instructions.
(a)
Response required.
A response is required from persons subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-10, Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad, contained in this section, whether or not they are contacted by BEA. Also, a person, or their agent, contacted in writing by BEA about reporting in this survey must respond by filing a properly completed BE-10 report (BE-10A and BE-10B, BE-10C, BE-10D, and/or BE-10 Claim for Not Filing).
(b)
Who must report.
A BE-10 report is required of any U.S. person that had a foreign affiliate—that is, that had direct or indirect ownership or control of at least 10 percent of the voting stock of an incorporated foreign business enterprise, or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated foreign business enterprise, including a branch—at the end of the U.S. person's fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey. Foreign affiliates that are private funds and meet certain criteria are exempt from the BE-10 survey. Specifically, if a foreign affiliate meets all of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(1) though (3) of this section, the U.S. reporter is not required to file a BE-10 form for that affiliate except to indicate exemption from the survey if contacted by BEA:
(1) The foreign affiliate is a private fund; and
(2) The private fund foreign affiliate does not own, directly or indirectly through another business enterprise, an “operating company”—
i.e.,
a business enterprise that is not a private fund or a holding company—in which the consolidated U.S. reporter owns at least 10 percent of the voting interest; and
(3) If the U.S. reporter owns the private fund indirectly (through one or more other business enterprises), there are no “operating companies” between the consolidated U.S. reporter and the indirectly-owned foreign private fund.
(c)
Forms to be filed.
(1) Form BE-10A must be completed by a U.S. reporter.
Form BE-10A is required to cover the fully consolidated U.S. domestic business enterprise. It must also file Form(s) BE-10B, BE-10C, and/or BE-10D for its foreign affiliates, whether held directly or indirectly.
(2) Form BE-10B must be filed for each majority-owned foreign affiliate (for purposes of this survey, a “majority-owned” foreign affiliate is one in which the combined direct and indirect ownership interest of all U.S. parents of the foreign affiliate exceeds 50 percent) for which any of the items in paragraph (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section (not just the U.S. reporter's share) was greater than $80 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey:
(i) Total assets (without netting liabilities);
(ii) Sales or gross operating revenues, excluding sales taxes; or
(iii) Net income after provision for foreign income taxes.
(3) Form BE-10C must be filed:
(i) For each majority-owned foreign affiliate for which any one of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section was greater than $25 million but for which none of these items was greater than $80 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey; and
(ii) For each minority-owned foreign affiliate (for purposes of this survey, a “minority-owned” foreign affiliate is one in which the combined direct and indirect ownership interest of all U.S. parents of the foreign affiliate is 50 percent or less) for which any one of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section was greater than $25 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey.
(4) Form BE-10D must be filed for majority- or minority-owned foreign affiliates for which none of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section was greater than $25 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey. Form BE-10D is a schedule; a U.S. reporter would submit one or more pages of the form depending on the number of affiliates that are required to be filed on this form.
(5) BE-10 Claim for Not Filing will be provided for response by:
(i) Persons that are not subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-10 survey but have been contacted by BEA concerning their reporting status; or
(ii) U.S. reporters that have been contacted by BEA concerning their reporting status for foreign affiliates that are no longer subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-10 survey.
(d)
Due date.
A fully completed and certified BE-10 report comprising Form BE-10A and Form(s) BE-10B, BE-10C, BE-10D, and/or BE-10 Claim for Not Filing (as required) is due to be filed with BEA not later than May 31 of the year after the year covered by the survey, for those U.S. reporters filing fewer than 50, and June 30, for those U.S. reporters filing 50 or more, foreign affiliate Forms BE-10B, BE-10C, and/or BE-10D.
[84 FR 60915, Nov. 12, 2019]
§ 801.9
[Reserved]
§ 801.10
Rules and regulations for BE-12, Benchmark Survey of Foreign Direct Investment in the United States.
A BE-12, Benchmark Survey of Foreign Direct Investment in the United States, will be conducted once every five years and covers years ending in 2 and 7. BEA will describe the proposed information collection in a public notice and will solicit comments accounting to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520). All legal authorities, provisions, definitions, and requirements contained in §§ 801.1 and 801.2 and 801.4 through 801.6 are applicable to this survey. Specific additional rules and regulations for the BE-12 survey are given in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. More detailed instructions are given on the report forms and instructions.
(a)
Response required.
A response is required from persons subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-12, Benchmark Survey of Foreign Direct
Investment in the United States, contained in this section, whether or not they are contacted by BEA. Also, a person, or their agent, contacted by BEA about reporting in this survey must respond in writing pursuant to this section. This may be accomplished by filing a properly completed BE-12 report (BE-12A, BE-12B, BE-12C, or BE-12 Claim for Not Filing).
(b)
Who must report.
A BE-12 report is required for each U.S. affiliate (except certain private funds as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section), that is, for each U.S. business enterprise in which a foreign person (foreign parent) owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting securities in an incorporated U.S. business enterprise, or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated U.S. business enterprise, at the end of the business enterprise's fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey. Certain private funds are exempt from reporting on the BE-12 survey. If a U.S. business meets ALL of the following 3 criteria, it is not required to file any BE-12 report except to indicate exemption from the survey if contacted by BEA:
(1) The U.S. business enterprise is a private fund;
(2) The private fund does not own, directly or indirectly through another business enterprise, an “operating company”—
i.e.,
a business enterprise that is not a private fund or a holding company—in which the foreign parent owns at least 10 percent of the voting interest; and
(3) If the foreign parent owns the private fund indirectly (through one or more other U.S. business enterprises), there are no U.S. “operating companies” between the foreign parent and the indirectly-owned private fund.
(c)
Forms to be filed.
(1) Form BE-12A must be completed by a U.S. affiliate that was majority-owned by one or more foreign parents (for purposes of this survey, a “majority-owned” U.S. affiliate is one in which the combined direct and indirect ownership interest of all foreign parents of the U.S. affiliate exceeds 50 percent) if, on a fully consolidated basis, or, in the case of real estate investment, on an aggregated basis, any one of the following three items for the U.S. affiliate (not just the foreign parent's share) was greater than $300 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey:
(i) Total assets (do not net out liabilities);
(ii) Sales or gross operating revenues, excluding sales taxes; or
(iii) Net income after provision for U.S. income taxes.
(2) Form BE-12B must be completed by:
(i) A majority-owned U.S. affiliate if, on a fully consolidated basis, or, in the case of real estate investment, on an aggregated basis, any one of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section (not just the foreign parent's share), was greater than $60 million (positive or negative) but none of these items was greater than $300 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey.
(ii) A minority-owned U.S. affiliate (for purposes of this survey, a “minority-owned” U.S. affiliate is one in which the combined direct and indirect ownership interest of all foreign parents of the U.S. affiliate is 50 percent or less) if, on a fully consolidated basis, or, in the case of real estate investment, on an aggregated basis, any one of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section (not just the foreign parent's share), was greater than $60 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey .
(3) Form BE-12C must be completed by a U.S. affiliate if, on a fully consolidated basis, or, in the case of real estate investment, on an aggregated basis, none of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for a U.S. affiliate (not just the foreign parent's share), was greater than $60 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey.
(4) Any U.S. person that is contacted by BEA concerning the BE-12 survey, but is not subject to the reporting requirements, must file a BE-12 Claim for Not Filing. The requirement in this
paragraph (c)(4) is necessary to ensure compliance with reporting requirements and efficient administration of the Act by eliminating unnecessary follow-up contact.
(d)
Aggregation of real estate investments.
All real estate investments of a foreign person must be aggregated for the purpose of applying the reporting criteria. A single report form must be filed to report the aggregate holdings, unless written permission has been received from BEA to do otherwise. Those holdings not aggregated must be reported separately on the same type of report that would have been required if the real estate holdings were aggregated.
(e)
Due date.
A fully completed and certified Form BE-12A, BE-12B, BE-12C, or BE-12 Claim for Not Filing is due to be filed with BEA not later than May 31 of the year after the year covered by the survey (or by June 30 for reporting companies that use BEA's eFile system).
[87 FR 58954, Sept. 29, 2022]
§ 801.11
Rules and regulations for the BE-120 Benchmark Survey of Transactions in Selected Services and Intellectual Property with Foreign Persons.
The BE-120 Benchmark Survey of Transactions in Selected Services and Intellectual Property with Foreign Persons will be conducted once every five years and covers years ending in 2 and 7. BEA will describe the proposed information collection in a public notice and will solicit comments according to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520).
All legal authorities, provisions, definitions, and requirements contained in §§ 801.1 through 801.2 and 801.4 through 801.6 are applicable to this survey. Specific additional rules and regulations for the BE-120 survey are given in this section. More detailed instructions are given on the report form and in instructions accompanying the report form.
(a)
Response required.
A response is required, every fifth year, from persons subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-120 Benchmark Survey of Transactions in Selected Services and Intellectual Property with Foreign Persons, contained in this section, whether or not they are contacted by BEA. Also, a person, or its agent, that is contacted by BEA about reporting on this survey, either by sending a report form or by written inquiry, must respond in writing pursuant to this section. This may be accomplished by:
(1) Completing and returning the BE-120 by the due date of the survey; or
(2) If exempt, by completing the determination of reporting status section of the BE-120 survey and returning it to BEA by the due date of the survey.
(b)
Who must report.
A BE-120 report is required of each U.S. person that had transactions with foreign persons in the categories covered by the survey during the fiscal year covered by the survey.
(c)
What must be reported.
(1) A U.S. person that had combined sales to foreign persons that exceeded $2 million, and/or combined purchases from foreign persons that exceeded $1 million in the services and intellectual property categories covered by the survey during its fiscal year, on an accrual basis, is required to provide data on total sales and/or purchases of each of the covered types of transactions and must disaggregate the totals by country and by relationship to the foreign transactor (foreign affiliate, foreign parent group, or unaffiliated). The $2 million threshold for sales and the $1 million threshold for purchases should be applied to the covered transactions categories with foreign persons by all parts of the consolidated domestic U.S. Reporter. Because the $2 million and $1 million thresholds apply separately to sales and purchases, the mandatory reporting requirement may apply to sales only, to purchases only, or to both. The determination of whether a U.S. services provider is subject to this reporting requirement can be based on the judgment of knowledgeable persons in a company who can identify reportable transactions on a recall basis, with a reasonable degree of certainty, without conducting a detailed manual records search.
(2) A U.S. person that had combined sales to foreign persons that were $2 million or less, and combined purchases from foreign persons that were
$1 million or less in the transaction categories covered by the survey during its fiscal year, on an accrual basis, is required to provide the total sales and/or purchases for each type of transaction in which they engaged. The $2 million threshold for sales and the $1 million threshold for purchases should be applied to the covered transactions categories with foreign persons by all parts of the consolidated domestic U.S. Reporter. Because the $2 million and $1 million thresholds apply separately to sales and purchases, the mandatory reporting requirement may apply to sales only, to purchases only, or to both.
(i)
Voluntary reporting of transactions.
If, during the reporter's fiscal year, combined sales were $2 million or less, and combined purchases were $1 million or less, on an accrual basis, the U.S. person may, in addition to providing the required total for each type of transaction, report sales at a country and affiliation level of detail on the applicable mandatory schedule(s). The estimates can be judgmental, that is, based on recall, without conducting a detailed records search.
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Exemption claims: Any U.S. person that receives the BE-120 survey form from BEA, but is not subject to the reporting requirements, must file an exemption claim by completing the determination of reporting status section of the BE-120 survey and returning it to BEA by the due date of the survey. This requirement is necessary to ensure compliance with reporting requirements and efficient administration of the Act by eliminating unnecessary follow-up contact.
(d)
Covered types of services and intellectual property.
Services transactions covered by this survey consist of: Advertising and related services; Architectural, engineering, scientific, and other technical services; Computer services; Construction; Financial services (for reporters who are not a financial services providers); Franchises and trademarks licensing fees; Information services; Legal, accounting, management consulting, and public relations services; Licenses for the use of outcomes of research and development; Licenses to reproduce and/or distribute computer software; Licenses to reproduce and/or distribute audiovisual products; Maintenance and repair services; Manufacturing services; Operating leasing services; Other business services; Personal, cultural, and recreational services; Research and development services; Primary insurance premiums and losses (for reporters who are not a U.S. insurance company); Space transport services; Telecommunications services; Trade-related services; Waste treatment and de-pollution, agricultural, and mining services.
(e)
Types of transactions excluded from the scope of this survey.
(1) Financial services transactions conducted by a U.S. financial services provider, all insurance services conducted by a U.S. insurance company, and all travel and transport activities that are not space transport services.
(2) Sales and purchases of goods. Trade in goods involves products that have a physical form, and includes payments or receipts for electricity.
(3) Sales and purchases of financial instruments, including stocks, bonds, financial derivatives, loans, mutual fund shares, and negotiable CDs. (However, securities brokerage is a service).
(4) Income on financial instruments (interest, dividends, capital gain distributions, etc.).
(5) Compensation paid to, or received by, employees.
(6) Penalties and fines and gifts or grants in the form of goods and cash (sometimes called “transfers”).
(f)
Due date.
A fully completed and certified BE-120 report, or qualifying exemption claim with the determination of reporting status section completed, is due to be filed with BEA by July 31 of the year after the year covered by the survey.
[87 FR 54887, Sept. 8, 2022]
§ 801.12
Rules and regulations for the BE-140 Benchmark Survey of Insurance Transactions by U.S. Insurance Companies with Foreign Persons.
The BE-140 Benchmark Survey of Insurance Transactions by U.S. Insurance Companies with Foreign Persons will be conducted once every five calendar years and covers years ending in 3 and 8. BEA will describe the proposed
information collection in a public notice and will solicit comments according to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520). All legal authorities, provisions, definitions, and requirements contained in §§ 801.1 through 801.2 and 801.4 through 801.6 are applicable to this survey. Specific additional rules and regulations for the BE-140 survey are given in this section. More detailed instructions are given on the report form and in instructions accompanying the report form.
(a)
Response required.
A response is required from U.S. insurance companies subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-140 Benchmark Survey of Insurance Transactions by U.S. Insurance Companies with Foreign Persons, contained in this section, whether or not they are contacted by BEA. Also, a U.S. insurance company, or its agent, that is contacted by BEA about reporting on this survey, either by transmission of a report form or by written inquiry, must respond in writing pursuant to this section. This may be accomplished by:
(1) Completing and returning the BE-140 by the due date of the survey; or
(2) If exempt, by completing the determination of reporting status section of the BE-140 survey and returning it to BEA by the due date of the survey.
(b)
Who must report.
A BE-140 report is required of each U.S. insurance company that had insurance transactions with foreign persons in the categories covered by the survey during the calendar year covered by the survey.
(c)
What must be reported.
(1) A U.S. insurance company that had transactions with foreign persons that exceeded $2 million in the insurance categories covered by the survey during its calendar year, on an accrual basis, is required to provide data on the total transactions of each of the covered types of insurance transactions and must disaggregate the totals by country and by relationship to the foreign counterparty (foreign affiliate, foreign parent group, or unaffiliated). The $2 million threshold should be applied to insurance services transactions with foreign persons by all parts of the consolidated domestic U.S. Reporter. The determination of whether a U.S. insurance company is subject to this reporting requirement may be based on the judgment of knowledgeable persons in a company who can identify reportable transactions on a recall basis, with a reasonable degree of certainty, without conducting a detailed manual records search.
(2) A U.S. insurance company that had transactions with foreign persons that were $2 million or less in the insurance categories covered by the survey during its calendar year, on an accrual basis, is required to provide the total for each type of transaction in which they engaged.
(i)
Voluntary reporting of insurance transactions.
If, during the calendar year covered by the survey, total transactions were $2 million or less in the insurance categories covered by the survey, on an accrual basis, the U.S. insurance company may, in addition to providing the required total for each type of transaction, voluntarily report transactions at a country and affiliation level of detail on the applicable mandatory schedule(s).
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Exemption claims: Any U.S. person that receives the BE-140 survey form from BEA but is not subject to the reporting requirements must file an exemption claim by completing the determination of reporting status section of the BE-140 survey and returning it to BEA by the due date of the survey. This requirement is necessary to ensure compliance with reporting requirements and efficient administration of the Act by eliminating unnecessary follow-up contact.
(d)
Covered types of insurance services.
Insurance services covered by the BE-140 survey consist of transactions between U.S. insurance companies and foreign persons for premiums and losses on primary insurance, premiums on reinsurance assumed and ceded, losses on reinsurance assumed and ceded, as well as receipts and payments for auxiliary insurance services.
(e)
Types of transactions excluded from the scope of this survey.
Premiums paid to, or losses received from, foreign insurance companies on direct insurance.
(f)
Due date.
A fully completed and certified BE-140 report, or qualifying
exemption claim with the determination of reporting status section completed, is due to be filed with BEA by July 31 of the year after the year covered by the survey.
[87 FR 54888, Sept. 8, 2022]
§ 801.13
Rules and regulations for the BE-180 Benchmark Survey of Financial Services Transactions between U.S. Financial Services Providers and Foreign Persons.
The BE-180 Benchmark Survey of Financial Services Transactions between U.S. Financial Services Providers and Foreign Persons will be conducted every five years and covers fiscal years ending in 4 and 9. BEA will describe the proposed information collection in a public notice and will solicit comments according to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520). All legal authorities, provisions, definitions, and requirements contained in §§ 801.1 through 801.2 and 801.4 through 801.6 are applicable to this survey. Specific additional rules and regulations for the BE-180 survey are given in this section. More detailed instructions are given on the report form and in instructions accompanying the report form.
(a)
Response required.
A response is required from persons subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-180 Benchmark Survey of Financial Services Transactions between U.S. Financial Services Providers and Foreign Persons, contained in this section, whether or not they are contacted by BEA. Also, a person, or its agent, that is contacted by BEA about reporting on this survey, either by sending a report form or by written inquiry, must respond in writing pursuant to this section. This may be accomplished by:
(1) Completing and returning the BE-180 by the due date of the survey; or
(2) If exempt, completing the determination of reporting status section of the BE-180 survey and returning it to BEA by the due date of the survey.
(b)
Who must report.
A BE-180 report is required of each U.S. person that is a financial services provider or intermediary, or whose consolidated U.S. enterprise includes a separately organized subsidiary, or part, that is a financial services provider or intermediary, and that had financial services transactions with foreign persons in the categories covered by the survey during the fiscal year covered by the survey.
(c)
BE-180 definition of financial services provider.
The definition of financial services provider used for this survey is identical to the definition of the term as used in the North American Industry Classification System, United States, Sector 52-Finance and Insurance, and holding companies that own or influence, and are principally engaged in making management decisions for, these firms (part of Sector 55—Management of Companies and Enterprises). For example, companies and/or subsidiaries and other separable parts of companies in the following industries are defined as financial services providers: Depository credit intermediation and related activities (including commercial banking, savings institutions, credit unions, and other depository credit intermediation); non-depository credit intermediation (including credit card issuing, sales financing, and other non-depository credit intermediation); activities related to credit intermediation (including mortgage and nonmortgage loan brokers, financial transactions processing, reserve, and clearinghouse activities, and other activities related to credit intermediation); securities and commodity contracts intermediation and brokerage (including investment banking and securities dealing, securities brokerage, commodity contracts and dealing, and commodity contracts brokerage); securities and commodity exchanges; other financial investment activities (including miscellaneous intermediation, portfolio management, investment advice, and all other financial investment activities); insurance carriers; insurance agencies, brokerages, and other insurance related activities; insurance and employee benefit funds (including pension funds, health and welfare funds, and other insurance funds); other investment pools and funds (including open-end investment funds, trusts, estates, and agency accounts, real estate investment trusts, and other financial vehicles); and holding companies that
own, or influence the management decisions of, firms principally engaged in the aforementioned activities.
(d)
What must be reported.
(1) A U.S. person that had combined sales to, or purchases from foreign persons that exceeded $3 million in the financial services categories covered by the survey during its fiscal year, on an accrual basis, is required to provide data on total sales and/or purchases of each of the covered types of financial services and must disaggregate the totals by country and by relationship to the foreign transactor (foreign affiliate, foreign parent group, or unaffiliated). The $3 million threshold for sales and purchases should be applied to financial services transactions with foreign persons by all parts of the consolidated domestic U.S. Reporter. Because the $3 million threshold applies separately to sales and purchases, the mandatory reporting requirement may apply to sales only, to purchases only, or to both. The determination of whether a U.S. financial services provider is subject to this reporting requirement can be based on the judgment of knowledgeable persons in a company who can identify reportable transactions on a recall basis, with a reasonable degree of certainty, without conducting a detailed manual records search.
(2) A U.S. person that had combined sales to, or purchases from foreign persons that were $3 million or less in the financial services categories covered by the survey during its fiscal year, on an accrual basis, is required to provide the total sales and/or purchases for each type of transaction in which they engaged. The $3 million threshold for sales and purchases should be applied to financial services transactions with foreign persons by all parts of the consolidated domestic U.S. Reporter. Because the $3 million threshold applies separately to sales and purchases, the mandatory reporting requirement may apply to sales only, to purchases only, or to both.
(e)
Voluntary reporting of financial services transactions.
If, during the fiscal year, combined sales and purchases were $3 million or less, on an accrual basis, the U.S. person may, in addition to providing the required total for each type of transaction, report sales at a country and affiliation level of detail on the applicable mandatory schedule(s). The estimates can be judgmental, that is, based on recall, without conducting a detailed records search.
(f)
Exemption claims.
Any U.S. person that receives the BE-180 survey form from BEA, but is not subject to the reporting requirements, must file an exemption claim by completing the determination of reporting status section of the BE-180 survey and returning it to BEA by the due date of the survey. This requirement is necessary to ensure compliance with reporting requirements and efficient administration of the Act by eliminating unnecessary follow-up contact.
(g)
Covered types of financial services.
Financial services covered by the BE-180 survey consist of transactions between U.S. financial services companies and foreign persons for brokerage, underwriting, financial management, credit-related, credit-cards, financial advisory, financial custody, securities lending, electronic funds transfers, and other financial services.
(h)
Due date.
A fully completed and certified BE-180 report, or qualifying exemption claim with the determination of reporting status section completed, is due to be filed with BEA by July 31 of the year after the year covered by the survey.
[87 FR 54889, Sept. 8, 2022]
PARTS 814-899 [RESERVED]
15 CFR Ch. IX (1-1-25 Edition)
Nat'l Oceanic and Atmos. Adm., Comm.

# CHAPTER IX—NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL REGULATIONS
Part
Page
900-901
[Reserved]
902
NOAA information collection requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act: OMB control numbers
21
903
Public information
25
904
Civil procedures
25
905
Use in enforcement proceedings of information collected by voluntary fishery data collectors
56
906
National Appeals Office rules of procedure
57
908
Maintaining records and submitting reports on weather modification activities
64
909
Marine debris
70
911
Policies and procedures concerning use of the NOAA space-based data collection systems
70
917
National sea grant program funding regulations
77
918
Sea grants
84

# SUBCHAPTER B—OCEAN AND COASTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
921
National Estuarine Research Reserve System regulations
89
922
National Marine Sanctuary Program regulations
113
923
Coastal Zone Management Program regulations
243
930
Federal consistency with approved coastal management programs
287
932-933
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER C—REGULATIONS OF THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
946
Modernization of the National Weather Service
330

# SUBCHAPTER D—GENERAL REGULATIONS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SERVICE
950
Environmental data and information
343
960
Licensing of private remote sensing space systems
347
970
Deep seabed mining regulations for exploration licenses
363
971
Deep seabed mining regulations for commercial recovery permits
394

# SUBCHAPTER E—OIL POLLUTION ACT REGULATIONS
990
Natural resource damage assessments
434

# SUBCHAPTER F—QUALITY ASSURANCE AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR NOAA HYDROGRAPHIC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
995
Certification requirements for distributors of NOAA hydrographic products
453
996
Quality assurance and certification requirements for NOAA hydrographic products and services
465

# SUBCHAPTER G—REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFICATION BY NOAA OF NON-FEDERAL ASSETS INTO THE INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION SYSTEM
997
Regional coastal observing system
474

# SUBCHAPTER H—REGULATIONS OF NOAA MARINE AND AVIATION
998
Marine and aviation operations
482

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL REGULATIONS
PARTS 900-901 [RESERVED]
Pt. 902

# PART 902—NOAA INFORMATION COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT: OMB CONTROL NUMBERS

# Authority:
44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
§ 902.1
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
(a)
Purpose.
This part collects and displays the control numbers assigned to information collection requirements of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA). NOAA intends that this part comply with the requirements of section 3507(c)(B)(i) of the PRA, which requires that agencies inventory and display a current control number assigned by the Director of OMB for each agency information collection requirement.
(b)
Display.
CFR part or section where the information collection requirement is located
Current OMB control number (all numbers begin with 0648-)
15 CFR
Part 908
-0025
Part 911
-0157
917.11
-0008, -0019, and -0034
917.22
-0008, -0019, and -0034
917.30(b)
-0008, -0019, and -0034
917.41
-0008, -0019, and -0034
917.43(c)
-0119
918.7
-0147
Part 921, subpart B
-0121
Part 923
-0119
924.6
-0141
928.3
-0119
929.10
-0141
935.9
-0141
936.8
-0141
937.8
-0141
938.8
-0141
941.11
-0141
942.8
-0141
943.10
-0141
944.9
-0141
Part 960, subpart B
-0174
Part 970
-0145
Part 971
-0170
Part 981
-0144
50 CFR
216.22
-0178
216.23
-0179
216.24(f)(2)
-0387
216.24(h)(9)(iii)
-0651
216.26
-0084
216.27
-0084
216.33
-0084
216.37
-0084
216.38
-0084
216.39
-0084
216.41
-0084
216.45
-0084
216.72
-0699
216.74
-0699
216.104
-0151
216.106
-0151
216.108
-0151
216.145
-0151
222.301(i)
-0084
222.307
-0230
222.308
-0084
223.203(b)
-0399
223.206(a)
-0230
223.206(b) and (c)
-0178
223.207(e)
-0309
223.210
-0613
224.105(c)
-0580
229.4
-0293
229.5
-0292
229.6
-0292
230.8
-0311
253.15
-0012
259.30
-0090
259.35
-0041
260.15
-0266
260.36
-0266
260.37
-0266
260.96
-0266
260.97
-0266
260.103
-0266
270.3
-0556
270.6
-0556
270.8
-0556
270.10
-0556
270.12
-0556
270.13
-0556
270.14
-0556
270.15
-0556
270.19
-0556
270.20
-0556
270.23
-0556
296.5
-0082
300.22
-0148
300.22(b)(3)
-0387
300.24
-0202
300.25
-0239
300.26
-0690
300.26(c)
-0239
300.26(d)
-0239
300.27
-0040
300.32
-0218
300.34
-0218
300.35
-0361
300.45
-0218
300.65(c)(5)
-0575, -0592, -0665
300.65(d)
-0575, -0592
300.65(h) through (l)
-0512
300.67(a) through (j)
-0592
300.67(k) and (l)
-0592 and -0665
300.103(b) and (c)
-0194
300.104
-0194
300.105
-0194
300.106
-0194
300.107(c) and (l)
-0194
300.107(k)
-0724
300.108
-0194
300.109(c)
-0194
300.110(e)
-0194
300.111
-0194
300.112
-0194
300.113(a)
-0194
300.123
-0205
300.124(b)
-0016
300.125
-0358
300.152
-0228
300.153(b)
-0228
300.154(b)
-0228
300.154(c)
-0228
300.154(d)
-0228
300.206(b)(2)
-0651
300.207(c)
-0651
300.208(c)
-0651
300.209(c)
-0651
300.212
-0595
300.213
-0595
300.215
-0649
300.217
-0595
300.218
-0649
300.219
-0596
300.225
-0649
300.322
-0732
300.323
-0732
300.324
-0739
300.333
-0304
300.336
-0304
300.337
-0304
300.338
-0304
300.339
-0304
300.341
-0304
600.205
-0314
600.215
-0314
600.235
-0192
600.501
-0089
600.502
-0075
600.503
-0354 and -0356
600.504
-0075
600.506
-0075
600.507
-0075
600.508
-0329
600.510
-0075
600.512
-0309
600.520
-0075
600.630
-0314
600.725
-0346
600.745
-0309
600.747
-0346
600.1001
-0376
600.1003
-0376
600.1005
-0376
600.1006
-0376
600.1009
-0376
600.1010
-0376 and -0413
600.1011
-0376
600.1012
-0376
600.1013
-0376
600.1014
-0376
622.4
-0013 and -0205
622.5
-0016
622.5(a)(1)(vii)
-0591
622.6
-0358
622.8
-0205 and -0593
622.9
-0205
622.15
-0013 and -0262
622.16
-0551
622.18
-0205 and -0593
622.19
-0205
622.20
-0205
622.21
-0551
622.22
-0551
622.26
-0013 and -0016
622.27
-0593
622.28
-0544
622.40(a)(2)
-0205
622.40(d)(2)
-0013
622.41
-0345
622.41(a)
-0016 and -0305
622.41(g)(3)
-0345
622.45
-0365
622.45(a)
-0013
622.50
-0205
622.51
-0016
622.51(a)(2)
-0543
622.51(a)(3)
-0542
622.51(b)
-0013
622.52
-0593
622.53
-0345
622.70
-0205
622.71
-0016
622.75
-0205
622.90(a)
-0013
622.170
-0205
622.170(c)
-0013
622.171
-0205
622.172
-0013 and -0551
622.176
-0016
622.176(a)(2)
-0593
622.176(b)(2)
-0593
622.176(c)
-0013
622.176(d)
-0593
622.177
-0359
622.178
-0603
622.192(h)
-0365
622.200
-0205
622.200(c)
-0013
622.201
-0205
622.203
-0016
622.203(a)
-0591
622.203(b)
-0013
622.204
-0593
622.205
-0544
622.207
-0345
622.220
-0205
622.221
-0016
622.225
-0205
622.240
-0205
622.240(b)
-0013
622.241
-0205
622.242
-0016
622.242(b)
-0013
622.243
-0359
622.244
-0593
622.270
-0205
622.270(d)
-0013
622.271
-0016
622.271(c)
-0013
622.300
-0593
622.370
-0205
622.371
-0205
622.372
-0205
622.373
-0205
622.374
-0016
622.374(c)
-0013
622.376
-0359
622.400
-0205
622.402
-0358 and -0359
622.430
-0359
622.450
-0359
622.470
-0205
622.473
-0013
635.2
-0327
635.4(b)
-0327
635.4(c)
-0327
635.4(d)
-0327
635.4(e)(4)
-0205
635.4(g)
-0202 and -0205
635.4(j)
-0327
635.5(a)
-0371, -0328, and -0452
635.5(a)(4)
-0328
635.5(b)
-0013 and -0239
635.5(c)
-0328
635.5(d)
-0323
635.5(f)
-0380
635.6(c)
-0373
635.7(c)
-0374
635.9(e)
-0328
635.14(d)
-0677
635.15(a)(2), (c)(2) and (k)(4)
-0677
635.21(d)
-0202
635.26
-0247
635.31(b)
-0216
635.32
-0309
635.33
-0338
635.42
-0040
635.43
-0040
635.44
-0040
635.46
-0363
635.69(a) and (e)(4)
-0372
648.4
-0202, -0212, -0529, and -0679
648.5
-0202
648.6
-0202 and -0555
648.7
-0018, -0202, -0212, -0229, -0590, and -0605
648.8
-0350
648.9
-0202, -0404, and -0529
648.10
-0202, -0529, and -0605
648.11
-0202, -0546, -0555, and -0679
648.13
-0391 and -0481
648.14
-0202, -0212, -0469, -0602, and -0605
648.15
-0202
648.15(b)
-0558
648.17
-0202
648.26
-0601
648.53
-0202 and -0491
648.54
-0202
648.56
-0321
648.58
-0202 and -0416
648.60
-0491 and -0541
648.70
-0238
648.74
-0240
648.76
-0202
648.80
-0202, -0422, and -0602
648.81
-0202, -0412, and -0605
648.82
-0202 and -0605
648.84
-0202 and -0351
648.85
-0202, -0212, and -0605
648.86
-0202, -0391, and -0605
648.87
-0202 and -0605
648.88
-0202 and -0605
648.89
-0202, -0412, and -0605
648.90
-0202 and -0605
648.91
-0202
648.92
-0202 and -0561
648.93
-0202
648.94
-0202 and -0489
648.95
-0202
648.96
-0202
648.100
-0202
648.106
-0202
648.122
-0469
648.123
-0305
648.144
-0305
648.160
-0202
648.205
-0404
648.207
-0348-0043, 0348-0044, 0348-0040, and 0348-0046
648.262
-0202
648.264
-0351
648.291
-0590
648.322
-0480 and -0489
654.6
-0358 and -0359
660.13
-0573, -0619, and -0738
660.14
-0573
660.15
-0619 and -0738
660.16
-0593
660.17
-0619 and -0738
660.20
-0355
660.25
-0203, -0620, and -0737
660.113
-0271, -0573, -0618, -0619, -0737, and -0794
660.114
-0618
660.140
-0593, -0619, -0620, and -0737
660.150
-0593 and -0620
660.160
-0593 and -0620
660.216
-0593
660.219
-0352
660.316
-0593
660.319
-0352
660.404
-0433
660.408
-0433
660.504
-0361
660.512
-0204
660.704
-0361
660.705(l), (o), and (p)
-0498
660.707
-0204
660.708
-0498
660.712(d) and (f)
-0498
660.713(f)(2) through (g)(5)
-0498
663.4
-0271
663.10
-0203
663.11
-0203
663.22
-0305
663.33
-0203
665.13
-0463, -0490, -0577, -0584, -0586, -0589, and -0664
665.14
-0214, -0462, -0577, -0584, -0586, -0589, and -0664
665.16
-0361, -0584, -0586, -0589, and -0664
665.17
-0214 and -0490
665.19
-0441, -0519, and -0584
665.20
-0612
665.105
-0214
665.124
-0463
665.126
-0462
665.128
-0360
665.142
-0490 and -0586
665.144
-0214
665.145
-0214
665.162
-0490
665.203
-0490 and -0577
665.205
-0214
665.207
-0214
665.224
-0463
665.226
-0462
665.228
-0360
665.242
-0490 and -0586
665.244
-0214
665.246
-0360
665.247
-0214
665.262
-0490
665.404
-0490 and -0584
665.407
-0214
665.424
-0463
665.426
-0462
665.428
-0360
665.442
-0490 and -0586
665.444
-0214
665.445
-0214
665.462
-0490
665.603
-0490
665.606
-0214
665.624
-0463
665.628
-0360
665.642
-0490 and -0586
665.644
-0214
665.445
-0214
665.662
-0490
665.801
-0490 and -0589
665.803
-0214
665.804
-0360
665.807
-0490
665.808
-0214
665.815
-0456
665.819
-0689
665.905
-0664
665.935
-0664
665.965
-0664
679.4
-0206, -0272, -0334, -0393, -0513, -0545, -0565, -0665, and -0811
679.5(a)
-0213, -0269, -0515, and -0272
679.5(b), (h), and (k)
-0213
679.5(c), (e), and (f)
-0213, -0272, -0330, -0513, and -0515
679.5(e) and (f)
-0401
679.5(g)
-0213, -0272, and -0330
679.5(l)(1) through (l)(5)
-0272
679.5(l)(7)
-0711
679.5(l)(8)
-0665
679.5(n)
-0269
679.5(p)
-0428
679.5(q)
-0513
679.5(r)
-0213, -0445, and -0545
679.5(s)
-0213, -0445, and -0565
679.5(t)
-0665
679.5(u)
-0206 and -0711
679.5(v)
-0272
679.5(w)
-0272
679.5(x)
-0811
679.6
-0206
679.7
-0206, -0269, -0272, -0316, -0318, -0330, -0334, -0393, -0445, -0513, -0514, -0545, -0565, and -0811
679.7(a)(7)(i)
-0206
679.7(a)(7)(vii) through (ix)
-0334
679.7(b)(6) and (7) and (c)(3) and (c)(4)
-0206 and -0334
679.7(f)(1) through (f)(7) and (f)(9) through (16)
-0269 and -0272
679.7(f)(8)
-0206 and -0334
679.7(k)
-0393 and -0330
679.7(m)
-0811
679.7(n)(1)
-0334
679.7(n)(2) and (n)(4) through (8)
-0545
679.7(n)(3)
-0445
679.20(a)(7)(viii)
-0743
679.20(a)(8)(iii)
-0206
679.21(f) and (g)
-0393 and -0401
679.22(a)
-0206
679.24
-0353
679.26
-0316
679.28(a)
-0213 and -0330
679.28(b) through (e) and (i)
-0330
679.28(f)
-0206 and -0445
679.28(g)(2)(iv)
-0330.
679.28(h)
-0213 and -0515
679.28(j) and (k)
-0515
679.28(l)
-0330
679.31(c)
-0269
679.32(c)(1) through (3)
-0269
679.32(c)(3)
-0269 and -0318
679.32(d)
-0269, -0318, and -0330
679.32(e)
-0269
679.33
-0711
679.40
-0272
679.41(a)
-0272, -0592
679.41(b), (c)(1) through (9), (d) through (f), (g)(1) through (4), (h) through (k), (m), and (n)
-0272
679.41(c)(10), (g)(5) through (8), and (l)
-0272 and -0665
679.42(a), and (c) through (j)
-0272 and -0665
679.42(b), (k)(2), and (l)
-0353
679.42(f)(1)
-0272, -0592
679.42(f)(6)
-0272, -0592, -0665
679.42(k)
-0445
679.43
-0272, -0318, -0334, -0401, -0545, -0565, -0569, and -0711
679.45
-0272, -0592, and -0711
679.50(a)
-0206, -0269, and -0272
679.51
-0206, -0269, -0272, -0318, -0401, -0513, -0545, -0565, and -0811
679.52
-0318
679.53
-0318
679.54
-0318
679.55
-0206, -0272, and -0711
679.56
-0711
679.57
-0318
679.61(a) through (f)
-0393 and -0401
679.62
-0393
679.63
-0213 and -0330
679.65
-0213, -0515, and -0633
679.66
-0711
679.67
-0711
679.80
-0545
679.81
-0545
679.82
-0545
679.83
-0545
679.84
-0213, -0330, and -0545
679.84(c)(7)
-0318
679.85
-0545
679.90
-0565
679.91
-0565
679.93
-0213, -0330, and -0565
679.93(c)(7)
-0318
679.94
-0564
679.95
-0711
679.100(a)
-0330 and -0515
679.100(b)
-0318, -0330, and -0515
679.100(c)
-0515
679.100(d)
-0330
679.114
-0818
679.115
-0818
679.117(b)(1)(xiv)
-0445
679.118(f)(2)
-0818
679.120(b)
-0330
679.120(c), (d), and (e)
-0318
679.130
-0811
679.131
-0811
679.132
-0811
679.134
-0811
679.135
-0811
680.4(a) through (q)
-0514
680.5(a) and (h) through (l)
-0514
680.5(b)
-0515
680.5(f), (g), (m)
-0711
680.6
-0518
680.20
-0516
680.21
-0514
680.22
-0334
680.23(d)(1) and (d)(2)
-0445
680.23(e), (f), and (g)
-0330
680.40(f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l), and (m)
-0514
680.41
-0514
680.42(a) and (b)
-0514
680.43
-0514
680.44
-0514
697.4(a), (d) and (e)
-0202
697.5
-0202
697.6
-0202
697.7
-0202
697.8
-0350
697.12
-0202
697.21
-0351
697.22
-0309
1
And -0305.
[60 FR 39248, Aug. 2, 1995]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 902.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 903

# PART 903—PUBLIC INFORMATION

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552 as amended by Pub. L. 93-502; 5 U.S.C. 553; Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1965, 15 U.S.C. 311 note; 32 FR 9734, 31 FR 10752.
§ 903.1
Access to information.
The rules and procedures regarding public access to the records of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration are found at 15 CFR part 4.
[57 FR 35749, Aug. 11, 1992]
Pt. 904

# PART 904—CIVIL PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
904.1
Purpose and scope.
904.2
Definitions and acronyms.
904.3
Filing and service of notices, documents, and other papers.
904.4
Computation of time periods.
904.5
Appearances.

# Subpart B—Civil Penalties
904.100
General.
904.101
Notice of violation and assessment (NOVA).
904.102
Procedures upon receipt of a NOVA.
904.103
[Reserved]
904.104
Final administrative decision.
904.105
Payment of final civil penalty.
904.106
Compromise of civil penalty.
904.107
Joint and several respondents.
904.108
Factors considered in assessing civil penalties.

# Subpart C—Hearing and Appeal Procedures

# General
904.200
Scope and applicability.
904.201
Hearing requests and case docketing.
904.202
Filing of documents.
904.203
[Reserved]
904.204
Duties and powers of Judge.
904.205
Disqualification of Judge.
904.206
Pleadings, motions, and service.
904.207
Amendment of pleading or record.
904.208
Extensions of time.
904.209
Expedited administrative proceedings.
904.210
Summary decision.
904.211
Failure to appear.
904.212
Failure to prosecute or defend.
904.213
Settlements.
904.214
Stipulations.
904.215
Consolidation.
904.216
Prehearing conferences.

# Discovery
904.240
Discovery generally.
904.241
Depositions.
904.242
Interrogatories.
904.243
Admissions.
904.244
Production of documents and inspection.
904.245
Subpoenas.

# Hearings
904.250
Notice of time and place of hearing.
904.251
Evidence.
904.252
Witnesses.
904.253
Closing of record.
904.254
Interlocutory review.
904.255
Ex parte
communications.

# Post-Hearing
904.260
Recordation of hearing.
904.261
Post-hearing briefs.

# Decision
904.270
Record of decision.
904.271
Initial decision.
904.272
Petition for reconsideration.
904.273
Administrative review of decision.

# Subpart D—Permit Sanctions and Denials

# General
904.300
Scope and applicability.
904.301
Bases for permit sanctions or denials.
904.302
Notice of permit sanction (NOPS).
904.303
Notice of intent to deny permit (NIDP).
904.304
Opportunity for hearing.
904.305
Final administrative decision.

# Permit Sanctions for Noncompliance
904.310
[Reserved]
904.311
Effect of payment on permit sanction.

# Permit Sanctions for Violations
904.320
[Reserved]
904.321
Reinstatement of permit.
904.322
Interim action.

# Subpart E—Written Warnings
904.400
Purpose and scope.
904.401
Written warning as a prior violation.
904.402
Procedures.
904.403
Review and appeal of a written warning.

# Subpart F—Seizure and Forfeiture Procedures
904.500
Purpose and scope.
904.501
Notice of seizure.
904.502
Bonded release of seized property.
904.503
Appraisement.
904.504
Administrative forfeiture proceedings.
904.505
Summary sale.
904.506
Remission of forfeiture and restoration of proceeds of sale.
904.507
Recovery of certain storage costs.
904.508
Voluntary forfeiture by abandonment.
904.509
Disposal of forfeited property.
904.510
Return of seized property.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 3371
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 773
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 951
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 5001
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 3631
et seq.,
42 U.S.C. 9101
et seq.,
30 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 971
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 781
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 2431
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 972
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 916
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1151
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1851 note; 15 U.S.C. 330
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 2461
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 5101
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1371
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1822 note, 16 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 5501
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 5601
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 973
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1827a, 16 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 7801
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1826g, 51 U.S.C. 60101
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.,
16 U.S.C. 1826k note, 1857 note, 22 U.S.C. 1980, Pub. L. 116-340, 134 Stat. 5128.

# Source:
71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 904.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part sets forth the procedures governing NOAA's administrative proceedings for assessment of civil penalties, suspension, revocation, modification, or denial of permits, issuance and use of written warnings, and release or forfeiture of seized property.
(b) This subpart defines terms appearing in this part and sets forth rules for the filing and service of documents in administrative proceedings covered by this part.
(c) The following statutes authorize NOAA to assess civil penalties, impose permit sanctions, issue written warnings, and/or seize and forfeit property in response to violations of those statutes:
(1) Anadromous Fish Products Act, 16 U.S.C. 1822 note;
(2) Antarctic Conservation Act of 1978, 16 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.;
(3) Antarctic Marine Living Resources Convention Act of 1984, 16 U.S.C. 2431
et seq.;
(4) Antarctic Mineral Resources Protection Act of 1990, 16 U.S.C. 2461
et seq.;
(5) Atlantic Coastal Fisheries Cooperative Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 5101
et seq.;
(6) Atlantic Salmon Convention Act of 1982, 16 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.;
(7) Atlantic Striped Bass Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 1851 note;
(8) Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975, 16 U.S.C. 971
et seq.;
(9) Billfish Conservation Act of 2012, 16 U.S.C. 1827a;
(10) DESCEND Act of 2020, Public Law 116-340, 134 Stat. 5128;
(11) Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act, 30 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.;
(12) Dolphin Protection Consumer Information Act, 16 U.S.C. 1371
et seq.;
(13) Driftnet Impact Monitoring, Assessment, and Control Act, 16 U.S.C. 1822 note;
(14) Eastern Pacific Tuna Licensing Act of 1984, 16 U.S.C. 972
et seq.;
(15) Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.;
(16) Ensuring Access to Pacific Fisheries Act, 16 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
(North Pacific), 16 U.S.C. 7801
et seq.
(South Pacific);
(17) Fish and Seafood Promotion Act of 1986, 16 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.;
(18) Fisherman's Protective Act of 1967, 22 U.S.C. 1980;
(19) Fur Seal Act Amendments of 1983, 16 U.S.C. 1151
et seq.;
(20) High Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act, 16 U.S.C. 1826g;
(21) High Seas Fishing Compliance Act, 16 U.S.C. 5501
et seq.;
(22) Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, 16 U.S.C. 3371
et seq.;
(23) Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, as amended, 51 U.S.C. 60101
et seq.;
(24) Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.;
(25) Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.;
(26) National Marine Sanctuaries Act, 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.;
(27) North Pacific Anadromous Stocks Convention Act of 1992, 16 U.S.C. 5001
et seq.;
(28) Northern Pacific Halibut Act of 1982, 16 U.S.C. 773
et seq.;
(29) Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Convention Act of 1995, 16 U.S.C. 5601
et seq.;
(30) Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. 9101
et seq.;
(31) Pacific Salmon Treaty Act of 1985, 16 U.S.C. 3631
et seq.;
(32) Pacific Whiting Act of 2006, 16 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.;
(33) Port State Measures Agreement Act of 2015, 16 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.;
(34) Shark Conservation Act of 2010, 16 U.S.C. 1826k note, 1857 note;
(35) South Pacific Tuna Act of 1988, 16 U.S.C. 973
et seq.;
(36) Sponge Act, 16 U.S.C. 781
et seq.;
(37) Tuna Conventions Act of 1950, 16 U.S.C. 951
et seq.;
(38) Weather Modification Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 330
et seq.;
(39) Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Convention Implementation Act, 16 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.;
and
(40) Whaling Convention Act of 1949, 16 U.S.C. 916
et seq.
(d) The procedures set forth in this part are intended to apply to administrative proceedings under these and any other statutes or authorities administered by NOAA.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38935, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.2
Definitions and acronyms.
Unless the context otherwise requires, or as otherwise noted, terms in this Part have the meanings prescribed in the applicable statute or regulation. In addition, the following definitions apply:
Administrator
means the Administrator of NOAA or a designee.
Agency
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
Applicable statute
means a statute cited in § 904.1(c), and any regulations issued by NOAA to implement it.
Authorized officer
means:
(1) Any commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG);
(2) Any special agent or fishery enforcement officer of NMFS;
(3) Any officer designated by the head of any Federal or state agency that has entered into an agreement with the Secretary of Commerce to enforce the provisions of any statute administered by NOAA; or
(4) Any USCG personnel accompanying and/or acting under the direction of any person described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
Citation
means a written warning (see section 311(c) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1861(c), and section 11(c) of the Northern Pacific Halibut Act of 1982, 16 U.S.C. 773i(c)).
Civil penalty
means a civil administrative monetary penalty assessed under the civil administrative process described in this part.
Decision
means an initial or final administrative decision of the Judge.
Ex parte communication
means an oral or written communication not on the public record with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, but does not include inquiries regarding procedures, scheduling, and status.
Final administrative decision
means an order or decision of NOAA assessing a civil penalty, permit sanction, or written warning, which is not subject to further Agency review under this part, and which is subject to collection proceedings or judicial review in an appropriate Federal district court as authorized by law.
Forfeiture
includes, but is not limited to, surrender or relinquishment of any claim to an item by written agreement, or otherwise; or extinguishment of any claim to, and transfer of title to an item to the U.S. Government by court order or by order of the Administrator under a statute.
Hearing
means a civil administrative hearing on a NOVA, NOPS and/or NIDP.
Initial decision
means a decision of the Judge that, under applicable statute and regulation, is subject to review by the Administrator.
Judge
means Administrative Law Judge.
NIDP
means Notice of Intent to Deny Permit.
NMFS
means the National Marine Fisheries Service.
NOAA
(see
Agency
) means either the Administrator or a designee acting on behalf of the Administrator.
NOPS
means Notice of Permit Sanction.
NOVA
means Notice of Violation and Assessment of civil penalty.
Party
means the respondent and the Agency; a joint and several respondent, vessel owner, or permit holder, if they enter an appearance; and any other person allowed to participate under § 904.204(b).
Permit
means any license, permit, certificate, or other approval issued by NOAA under an applicable statute.
Permit holder
means the holder of a permit or any agent or employee of the holder, and includes the owner and operator of a vessel for which the permit was issued.
Permit sanction
means suspension, revocation, or modification of a permit (see § 904.320).
Respondent
means a person issued a written warning, NOVA, NOPS, NIDP or other notice.
Settlement agreement
means any agreement resolving all or part of an administrative or judicial action. The terms of such an agreement may include, but are not limited to, payment of a civil penalty, and/or imposition of a permit sanction.
USCG
means the U.S. Coast Guard.
Vessel owner
means the owner of any vessel that may be liable in rem for any civil penalty, or whose permit may be subject to sanction in proceedings under this part.
Written warning
means a notice in writing to a person that a violation has been documented against the person or against the vessel which is owned or operated by the person, where no civil penalty or permit sanction is imposed or assessed.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38936, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.3
Filing and service.
(a) Service of a NOVA (§ 904.101), NOPS (§ 904.302), NIDP (§ 904.303), Notice of Proposed Forfeiture (§ 904.504), Notice of Seizure (§ 904.501), Notice of Summary Sale (§ 904.505), Written Warning (§ 904.402), or Initial Decision (§ 904.271) may be made by certified mail (return receipt requested), electronic transmission, or third party commercial carrier to an addressee's last known address or by personal delivery. Service of a notice under this subpart will be considered effective upon receipt.
(b) Service of documents and papers, other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section, may be made by first class mail (postage prepaid), electronic transmission, or third party commercial carrier, to an addressee's last known address or by personal delivery. Service of documents and papers will be considered effective upon the date of postmark (or as otherwise shown for government-franked mail),
delivery to third party commercial carrier, electronic transmission, or upon personal delivery.
(c) Whenever this part requires service of a document or other paper referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, such service may effectively be made on the agent for service of process, on the attorney for the person to be served, or other representative. Refusal by the person to be served (including an agent, attorney, or representative) of service of a document or other paper will be considered effective service of the document or other paper as of the date of such refusal. In cases where a document or paper described in paragraph (a) of this section is returned unclaimed, service will be considered effective if the U.S. Postal Service provides an affidavit stating that the party was receiving mail at the same address during the period when certified service was attempted.
(d) Any documents and other papers filed or served must be signed:
(1) By the person or persons filing the same;
(2) By an officer thereof if a corporation;
(3) By an officer or authorized employee if a government instrumentality; or
(4) By an attorney or other person having authority to sign.
[87 FR 38936, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.4
Computation of time periods.
For a NOVA, NOPS or NIDP, the 30-day response period begins to run on the date the notice is received. All other time periods begin to run on the day following the service date of the document, paper, or event that begins the time period. Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays will be included in computing such time, except that when such time expires on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, in which event such period will be extended to include the next business day. This method of computing time periods also applies to any act, such as paying a civil penalty, required by this part to take place within a specified period of time. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than 11 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays will be excluded in the computation.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38936, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.5
Appearances.
(a) A party may appear in person or by or with counsel or other representative.
(b) Whenever an attorney or other representative contacts the Agency on behalf of another person with regard to any matter that has resulted in, or may result in, a written warning, a NOVA, NOPS, NIDP, or a forfeiture proceeding, that attorney or other representative shall file a Notice of Appearance with the Agency. Such notice shall indicate the name of the person on whose behalf the appearance is made.
(c) Each attorney or other representative who represents a party in any hearing shall file a written Notice of Appearance with the Judge. Such notice shall indicate the name of the case, the docket number, and the party on whose behalf the appearance is made.

# Subpart B—Civil Penalties
§ 904.100
General.
This subpart sets forth the procedures governing NOAA administrative proceedings for the assessment of civil penalties under the statutes cited in § 904.1(c).
§ 904.101
Notice of violation and assessment (NOVA).
(a) A NOVA will be issued by NOAA and served on the respondent(s). The NOVA will contain:
(1) A concise statement of the facts believed to show a violation;
(2) A specific reference to the provisions of the Act, regulation, license, permit, agreement, or order allegedly violated;
(3) The findings and conclusions upon which NOAA bases the assessment;
(4) The amount of the civil penalty assessed; and
(5) Information concerning the respondent's rights upon receipt of the NOVA, and will be accompanied by a
copy of the regulations in this part governing the proceedings.
(b) In assessing a civil penalty, NOAA will take into account information available to the Agency concerning any factor to be considered under the applicable statute, and any other information that justice or the purposes of the statute require.
(c) The NOVA may also contain a proposal for compromise or settlement of the case. NOAA may also attach documents that illuminate the facts believed to show a violation.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38937, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.102
Procedures upon receipt of a NOVA.
(a) The respondent has 30 days from receipt of the NOVA in which to respond. During this time the respondent may:
(1) Accept the penalty or compromise penalty, if any, by taking the actions specified in the NOVA;
(2) Seek to have the NOVA amended, modified, or rescinded under paragraph (b) of this section;
(3) Request a hearing under § 904.201(a);
(4) Request an extension of time to respond under paragraph (c) of this section; or
(5) Take no action, in which case the NOVA becomes a final administrative decision in accordance with § 904.104.
(b) The respondent may seek amendment or modification of the NOVA to conform to the facts or law as that person sees them by notifying Agency counsel at the telephone number or address specified in the NOVA. If amendment or modification is sought, Agency counsel will either amend the NOVA or decline to amend it, and so notify the respondent.
(c) The respondent may, within the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section, request an extension of time to respond. Agency counsel may grant an extension of up to 30 days unless he or she determines that the requester could, exercising reasonable diligence, respond within the 30-day period. If Agency counsel does not respond to the request within 48 hours of its receipt, the request is granted automatically for the extension requested, up to a maximum of 30 days. A telephonic response to the request within the 48-hour period is considered an effective response, and will be followed by written confirmation.
(d) Agency counsel may, for good cause, grant an additional extension beyond the 30-day period specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38937, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.103
[Reserved]
§ 904.104
Final administrative decision.
(a) If no request for hearing is timely filed as provided in § 904.201(a), the NOVA becomes effective as the final administrative decision and order of NOAA 30 days after service of the NOVA or on the last day of any delay period granted.
(b) If a request for hearing is timely filed in accordance with § 904.201(a), the date of the final administrative decision is as provided in subpart C of this part.
§ 904.105
Payment of final civil penalty.
(a) Respondent must make full payment of the civil penalty within 30 days of the date upon which the NOVA becomes effective as the final administrative decision and order of NOAA under § 904.104 or the date of the final administrative decision as provided in subpart C of this part, as directed by NOAA. Payment must be made in accordance with the bill and instructions provided by NOAA.
(b) Upon any failure to pay the civil penalty assessed, NOAA may request the U.S. Department of Justice to recover the amount assessed in any appropriate district court of the United States, may act under § 904.106, or may commence any other lawful action.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38937, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.106
Compromise of civil penalty.
(a) NOAA, in its sole discretion, may compromise, modify, remit, or mitigate, with or without conditions, any civil penalty assessed, or which is subject to assessment, except as stated in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) The compromise authority of NOAA under this section may be exercised either upon the initiative of NOAA or in response to a request by the respondent or a representative subject to the requirements of § 904.5. Any such request should be sent to Agency counsel at the address specified in the NOVA.
(c) Neither the existence of the compromise authority of NOAA under this section nor NOAA's exercise thereof at any time changes the date upon which a NOVA becomes final.
(d) NOAA will not compromise, modify, or remit a civil penalty assessed, or subject to assessment, under the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act while an action to review or recover the civil penalty is pending in a court of the United States.
§ 904.107
Joint and several respondents.
(a) A NOVA may assess a civil penalty against two or more respondents jointly and severally. Each joint and several respondent is liable for the entire penalty but, in total, no more than the amount finally assessed may be collected from the respondents.
(b) A hearing request by one joint and several respondent is considered a request by the other joint and several respondent(s). Agency counsel, having received a hearing request from one joint and several respondent, will send a copy of it to the other joint and several respondent(s) in the case. However, if the requesting joint and several respondent settles with the Agency prior to the hearing, upon notification by the Agency, any remaining joint and several respondent(s) must affirmatively request a hearing within the time period specified or the case will be removed from the hearing docket as provided in § 904.213.
(c) A final administrative decision by the Judge or the Administrator after a hearing requested by one joint and several respondent is binding on all parties including all other joint and several respondent(s), whether or not they entered an appearance unless they have otherwise resolved the matter through settlement with the Agency.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38937, June 30, 20222]
§ 904.108
Factors considered in assessing civil penalties.
(a) Factors to be taken into account in assessing a civil penalty, depending upon the statute in question, may include the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the alleged violation; the respondent's degree of culpability, any history of prior violations, and ability to pay; and such other matters as justice may require.
(b) NOAA may, in consideration of a respondent's ability to pay, increase or decrease a civil penalty from an amount that would otherwise be warranted by the other relevant factors. A civil penalty may be increased if a respondent's ability to pay is such that a higher civil penalty is necessary to deter future violations, or for commercial violators, to make a civil penalty more than a cost of doing business. A civil penalty may be decreased if the respondent establishes that he or she is unable to pay an otherwise appropriate civil penalty amount.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, if a respondent asserts that a civil penalty should be reduced because of an inability to pay, the respondent has the burden of proving such inability by providing verifiable, complete, and accurate financial information to NOAA. NOAA will not consider a respondent's inability to pay unless the respondent, upon request, submits such financial information as Agency counsel determines is adequate to evaluate the respondent's financial condition. Depending on the circumstances of the case, Agency counsel may require the respondent to complete a financial information request form, answer written interrogatories, or submit independent verification of his or her financial information. If the respondent does not submit the requested financial information, he or she will be presumed to have the ability to pay the civil penalty.
(d) Financial information relevant to a respondent's ability to pay includes but is not limited to, the value of respondent's cash and liquid assets; ability to borrow; net worth; liabilities; income tax returns; past, present, and future income; prior and anticipated
profits; expected cash flow; and the respondent's ability to pay in installments over time. A respondent will be considered able to pay a civil penalty even if he or she must take such actions as pay in installments over time, borrow money, liquidate assets, or reorganize his or her business. NOAA's consideration of a respondent's ability to pay does not preclude an assessment of a civil penalty in an amount that would cause or contribute to the bankruptcy or other discontinuation of the respondent's business.
(e) Financial information regarding respondent's ability to pay should be submitted to Agency counsel as soon as possible after the receipt of the NOVA. If a respondent has requested a hearing on the violation alleged in the NOVA and wants the Initial Decision of the Judge to consider his or her inability to pay, verifiable, complete, and accurate financial information must be submitted to Agency counsel at least 30 days in advance of the hearing, except where the applicable statute expressly provides for a different time period. No information regarding the respondent's ability to pay submitted by the respondent less than 30 days in advance of the hearing will be admitted at the hearing or considered in the Initial Decision of the Judge, unless the Judge rules otherwise. If the Judge decides to admit any information related to the respondent's ability to pay submitted less than 30 days in advance of the hearing, Agency counsel will have 30 days to respond to the submission from the date of admission. In deciding whether to submit such information, the respondent should keep in mind that the Judge may assess a civil penalty either greater or smaller than that assessed in the NOVA.
(f) Issues regarding ability to pay will not be considered in an administrative review of an Initial Decision if the financial information was not previously presented by the respondent to the Judge prior to or at the hearing.
(g) Whenever a statute requires NOAA to take into consideration a respondent's ability to pay when assessing a civil penalty, NOAA will take into consideration information available to it concerning a respondent's ability to pay. In all cases, the NOVA will advise, in accordance with § 904.102, that the respondent may seek to have the civil penalty amount modified by Agency counsel on the basis that he or she does not have the ability to pay the civil penalty assessed. A request to have the civil penalty amount modified on this basis must be made in accordance with § 904.102 and should be accompanied by supporting financial information. Agency counsel may request that the respondent submit such additional verifiable, complete and accurate financial information as Agency counsel determines is necessary to evaluate the respondent's financial condition (such as by responding to a financial information request form or written interrogatories, or by authorizing independent verification of respondent's financial condition). A respondent's failure to provide the requested information may serve as the basis for inferring that such information would not have supported the respondent's assertion of inability to pay the civil penalty assessed in the NOVA.
(h) Whenever a statute requires NOAA to take into consideration a respondent's ability to pay when assessing a civil penalty and the respondent has requested a hearing on the violation alleged in the NOVA, the Agency must submit information on the respondent's financial condition so that the Judge may consider that information, along with any other factors required to be considered, in the Judge's assessment of a civil penalty. Agency counsel may obtain such financial information through discovery procedures under § 904.240, or otherwise. A respondent's refusal or failure to respond to such discovery requests may serve as the basis for inferring that such information would have been adverse to any claim by respondent of inability to pay the assessed civil penalty, or result in respondent being barred from asserting financial hardship.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38937, June 30, 2022]

# Subpart C—Hearing and Appeal Procedures

# General
§ 904.200
Scope and applicability.
(a) This subpart sets forth the procedures governing the conduct of hearings and the issuance of initial and final administrative decisions of NOAA involving alleged violations of the laws cited in § 904.1(c) and any other laws or authorities administered by NOAA and regulations implementing these laws, including civil penalty assessments and permit sanctions and denials. By separate regulation, these rules may be applied to other proceedings.
(b) The Judge is delegated authority to make the initial or final administrative decision of the Agency in proceedings subject to the provisions of this subpart, and to take actions to promote the efficient and fair conduct of hearings as set out in this subpart. The Judge has no authority to rule on constitutional issues or challenges to the validity of regulations promulgated by the Agency or statutes administered by NOAA.
(c) This subpart is not an independent basis for claiming the right to a hearing but, instead, prescribes procedures for the conduct of hearings, the right to which is provided by other authority.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38937, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.201
Hearing requests and case docketing.
(a) If the respondent wishes a hearing on a NOVA, NOPS or NIDP, the request must be dated and in writing, and must be served in conformance with § 904.3 on the Agency counsel specified in the notice. The respondent must either attach a copy of the NOVA, NOPS or NIDP or refer to the relevant NOAA case number. Agency counsel will promptly forward the request for hearing to the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
(b) Any party requesting a hearing under § 904.102(a)(3) must provide current contact information, including a working telephone number and email address (if one is available). The Agency and the Office of Administrative Law Judges must be promptly notified of any changes to this information.
(c) If a written application is made to NOAA after the expiration of the time period established in this part for the required filing of hearing requests, Agency counsel will promptly forward the request for hearing along with documentation of service and any other relevant materials to the Office of Administrative Law Judges for a determination on whether such request shall be considered timely filed. Determinations by the Judge regarding untimely hearing requests under this section shall be in writing.
(d) Upon its receipt for filing in the Office of Administrative Law Judges, each request for hearing will be promptly assigned a docket number and thereafter the proceeding will be referred to by such number. Written notice of the assignment of hearing to a Judge will promptly be given to the parties.
[87 FR 38937, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.202
Filing of documents.
(a) Pleadings, papers, and other documents in the proceeding must be filed directly with the Office of Administrative Law Judges, be served on all other parties, and conform with all applicable requirements of § 904.3.
(b) Unless otherwise ordered by the Judge, discovery requests and answers will be served on the opposing party and need not be filed with the Judge.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.203
[Reserved]
§ 904.204
Duties and powers of Judge.
The Judge has all powers and responsibilities necessary to preside over the parties and the hearing, to hold prehearing conferences, to conduct the hearing, and to render decisions in accordance with these regulations and 5 U.S.C. 554 through 557, including, but not limited to, the authority and duty to do the following:
(a) Rule on timeliness of hearing requests pursuant to § 904.201(c);
(b) Rule on a request to participate as a party in the hearing by allowing, denying, or limiting such participation
(such ruling will consider views of the parties and be based on whether the requester could be directly and adversely affected by the determination and whether the requester can be expected to contribute materially to the disposition of the proceedings);
(c) Schedule the time, place, and manner of conducting the pre-hearing conference or hearing, continue the hearing from day to day, adjourn the hearing to a later date or a different place, and reopen the hearing at any time before issuance of the decision, all in the Judge's discretion, having due regard for the convenience and necessity of the parties and witnesses;
(d) Schedule and regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the participants and the media, including the power to rule on motions to close the hearing in the interests of justice; seal the record from public scrutiny to protect privileged information, trade secrets, and confidential commercial or financial information; and strike testimony of a witness who refuses to answer a question ruled to be proper;
(e) Administer oaths and affirmations to witnesses;
(f) Rule on contested discovery requests, establish discovery schedules, and, whenever the ends of justice would thereby be served, take or cause depositions or interrogatories to be taken and issue protective orders under § 904.251(h);
(g) Rule on motions, procedural requests, and similar matters;
(h) Receive, exclude, limit, and otherwise rule on offers of proof and evidence;
(i) Examine and cross-examine witnesses and introduce into the record on the Judge's own initiative documentary or other evidence;
(j) Rule on requests for appearance of witnesses or production of documents and take appropriate action upon failure of a party to effect the appearance or production of a witness or document ruled relevant and necessary to the proceeding; as authorized by law, issue subpoenas for the appearance of witnesses or production of documents;
(k) Require a party or witness at any time during the proceeding to state his or her position concerning any issue or his or her theory in support of such position;
(l) Take official notice of any matter not appearing in evidence that is among traditional matters of judicial notice; or of a non-privileged document required by law or regulation to be filed with or published by a duly constituted government body; or of any reasonably available public document; provided that the parties will be advised of the matter noticed and given reasonable opportunity to show the contrary;
(m) Assess a civil penalty or impose a permit sanction, condition, revocation, or denial of permit application, taking into account all of the factors required by applicable law;
(n) Prepare and submit a decision or other appropriate disposition document and certify the record;
(o) Award attorney fees and expenses as provided by applicable statute or regulation;
(p) Grant preliminary or interim relief; or
(q) Impose, upon the motion of any party, or
sua sponte
, appropriate sanctions.
(1) Sanctions may be imposed when any party, or any person representing a party, in an administrative proceeding under this part has failed to comply with this part, or any order issued under this part, and such failure to comply:
(i) Materially injures or prejudices another party by causing additional expenses; prejudicial delay; or other injury or prejudice;
(ii) Is a clear and unexcused violation of this part, or any order issued under this part; or
(iii) Unduly delays the administrative proceeding.
(2) Sanctions that may be imposed include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following:
(i) Issuing an order against the party;
(ii) Rejecting or striking any testimony or documentary evidence offered, or other papers filed, by the party;
(iii) Expelling the party from the administrative proceedings;
(iv) Precluding the party from contesting specific issues or findings;
(v) Precluding the party from making a late filing or conditioning a late filing on any terms that are just;
(vi) Assessing reasonable expenses, incurred by any other party as a result of the improper action or failure to act; and
(vii) Taking any other action, or imposing any restriction or sanction, authorized by applicable statute or regulation, deemed appropriate by the Judge.
(3) No sanction authorized by this section, other than refusal to accept late filings, shall be imposed without prior notice to all parties and an opportunity for any party against whom sanctions would be imposed to be heard. Such opportunity to be heard may be on such notice, and the response may be in such form as the Judge directs and may be limited to an opportunity for a party or a party's representative to respond orally immediately after the act or inaction is noted by the Judge.
(4) The imposition of sanctions is subject to interlocutory review pursuant to § 904.254 in the same manner as any other ruling.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be read as precluding the Judge from taking any other action, or imposing any restriction or sanction, authorized by applicable statute or regulation.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 35632, June 23, 2010; 87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.205
Disqualification of Judge.
(a) The Judge may withdraw voluntarily from an administrative proceeding when the Judge deems himself/herself disqualified.
(b) A party may in good faith request the Judge to withdraw on the grounds of personal bias or other disqualification. The party seeking the disqualification must file with the Judge a timely affidavit or statement setting forth in detail the facts alleged to constitute the grounds for disqualification, and the Judge will rule on the matter. If the Judge rules against disqualification, the Judge will place all matters relating to such claims of disqualification in the record.
§ 904.206
Pleadings, motions, and service.
(a) The original of all pleadings and documents must be filed with the Judge and a copy served on the Office of Administrative Law Judges and each party. All pleadings or documents when submitted for filing must show that service has been made upon all parties. Such service must be made in accordance with § 904.3(b).
(b) Pleadings and documents to be filed may be reproduced by printing or any other process, provided the copies are clear and legible; must be dated, signed; and must show the docket description and title of the proceeding, and the title, if any, address, and telephone number of the signatory. If typewritten, the impression may be on only one side of the paper and must be double spaced, if possible, except that quotations may be single spaced and indented.
(c) Motions must normally be made in writing and must state clearly and concisely the purpose of and relief sought by the motion, the statutory or principal authority relied upon, and the facts claimed to constitute the grounds requiring the relief requested.
(d) Unless otherwise provided, the answer to any written motion, pleading, or petition must be served within 20 days after service of the motion. If a motion states that opposing counsel has no objection, it may be acted upon as soon as practicable, without awaiting the expiration of the 20-day period. Answers must be in writing, unless made in response to an oral motion made at a hearing; must fully and completely advise the parties and the Judge concerning the nature of the opposition; must admit or deny specifically and in detail each material allegation of the pleading answered; and must state clearly and concisely the facts and matters of law relied upon. Any new matter raised in an answer will be deemed controverted.
(e) A response to an answer will be called a reply. A short reply restricted to new matters raised in the answer may be served within 15 days after service of an answer. The Judge has
discretion to dispense with the reply. No further responses are permitted.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.207
Amendment of pleading or record.
(a) A party may amend its pleading as a matter of course at least 20 days prior to a hearing. Within 20 days prior to a hearing a party may amend its pleading only by leave of the Judge or by written consent of the adverse party; leave shall be freely given when justice so requires. A party shall plead in response to an amended pleading within the time remaining for response to the original pleading or within 10 days after service of the amended pleading, whichever period is longer, unless the Judge otherwise orders.
(b) The Judge, upon his or her own initiative or upon application by a party, may order a party to make a more definite statement of any pleading.
(c) Harmless errors in pleadings or elsewhere in the record may be corrected (by deletion or substitution of words or figures), and broad discretion will be exercised by the Judge in permitting such corrections.
§ 904.208
Extensions of time.
If appropriate and justified, the Judge may grant any request for an extension of time. Requests for extensions of time must, except in extraordinary circumstances, be made in writing.
§ 904.209
Expedited administrative proceedings.
In the interests of justice and administrative efficiency, the Judge, on his or her own initiative or upon the application of any party, may expedite the administrative proceeding. A motion by a party to expedite the administrative proceeding may, at the discretion of the Judge, be made orally or in writing with concurrent actual notice to all parties. Upon granting a motion to expedite the scheduling of an administrative proceeding, the Judge may expedite pleading schedules, prehearing conferences and the hearing, as appropriate. If a motion for an expedited administrative proceeding is granted, a hearing on the merits may not be scheduled with less than 5 business days' notice, unless all parties consent to an earlier hearing.
[87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.210
Summary decision.
The Judge may render a summary decision disposing of all or part of the administrative proceeding if:
(a) Jointly requested by every party to the administrative proceeding; and
(b) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact and a party is entitled to summary decision as a matter of law.
§ 904.211
Failure to appear.
(a) If, after proper service of notice, any party appears at the hearing and an opposing party fails to appear, the Judge is authorized to:
(1) Dismiss the case with prejudice, where the Agency is a non-appearing party; or
(2) Where the respondents have failed to appear, find the facts as alleged in the NOVA, NOPS and/or NIDP and enter a default judgment against the respondents.
(b) Following an order of default judgment, a non-appearing party may file a petition for reconsideration, in accordance with § 904.272. Only petitions citing reasons for non-appearance, as opposed to arguing the merits of the case, will be considered.
(c) The Judge will place in the record all the facts concerning the issuance and service of the notice of time and place of hearing.
(d) The Judge may deem a failure of a party to appear after proper notice a waiver of any right to a hearing and consent to the making of a decision on the record.
(e) Failure to appear at a hearing shall not be deemed to be a waiver of the right to be served with a copy of the Judge's decision.
§ 904.212
Failure to prosecute or defend.
(a) Whenever the record discloses the failure of any party to file documents, respond to orders or notices from the Judge, or otherwise indicates an intention on the part of any party not to
participate further in the administrative proceeding, the Judge may issue:
(1) An order requiring any party to show why the matter that is the subject of the failure to respond should not be disposed of adversely to that party's interest;
(2) An order requiring any party to certify intent to appear at any scheduled hearing; or
(3) Any order, except dismissal, as is necessary for the just and expeditious resolution of the case.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 904.213
Settlements.
If settlement is reached before the Judge has certified the record, the Judge shall remove the case from the docket upon notification by the Agency.
§ 904.214
Stipulations.
The parties may, by stipulation, agree upon any matters involved in the administrative proceeding and include such stipulations in the record with the consent of the Judge. Written stipulations must be signed and served on all parties.
[87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.215
Consolidation.
The Chief Administrative Law Judge may order that two or more administrative proceedings that involve substantially the same parties or the same issues be consolidated and/or heard together, either upon request of a party or
sua sponte.
§ 904.216
Prehearing conferences.
(a) Prior to any hearing or at any other time deemed appropriate, the Judge may, upon his or her own initiative, or upon the application of any party, direct the parties to appear for a conference or arrange a telephone conference. The Judge shall provide at least 24 hours' notice of the conference to the parties, and shall record such conference by audio recording or court reporter, to consider:
(1) Simplification or clarification of the issues or settlement of the case by consent;
(2) The possibility of obtaining stipulations, admissions, agreements, and rulings on admissibility of documents, understandings on matters already of record, or similar agreements that will avoid unnecessary proof;
(3) Agreements and rulings to facilitate the discovery process;
(4) Limitation of the number of expert witnesses or other avoidance of cumulative evidence;
(5) The procedure, course, and conduct of the administrative proceeding;
(6) The distribution to the parties and the Judge prior to the hearing of written testimony and exhibits in order to expedite the hearing; or
(7) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the administrative proceeding, including the status of settlement discussions.
(b) The Judge in his or her discretion may issue an order showing the matters disposed of in such conference, and shall provide a transcript of the conference upon the request of a party.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]

# Discovery
§ 904.240
Discovery generally.
(a)
Initial Disclosures.
Prior to hearing, the Judge shall require the parties to submit Initial Disclosures and set a deadline for their submission. Except for information regarding a respondent's ability to pay an assessed civil penalty, these Initial Disclosures will normally obviate the need for further discovery.
(1) The Initial Disclosures shall include the following information: A factual summary of the case; a summary of all factual and legal issues in dispute; a list of all defenses that will be asserted, together with a summary of all factual and legal bases supporting each defense; a list of all potential witnesses, together with a summary of their anticipated testimony; and a list of all potential exhibits.
(2) The Initial Disclosures must be signed by the parties or their attorneys and must be served on all parties in conformance with § 904.3, along with a copy of each potential exhibit listed therein.
(3) A party has the affirmative obligation to supplement their Initial Disclosures as available information or
documentation relevant to the stated charges or defenses becomes known to the party.
(b)
Additional discovery.
Upon written motion by a party, the Judge may allow additional discovery only upon a showing of relevance, need, and reasonable scope of the evidence sought, by one or more of the following methods: Deposition upon oral examination or written questions, written interrogatories, production of documents or things for inspection and other purposes, and requests for admission. With respect to information regarding a respondent's ability to pay an assessed civil penalty, the Agency may serve any discovery request (
i.e.,
deposition, interrogatories, admissions, production of documents) directly upon the respondent in conformance with § 904.3 of this part without first seeking an order from the Judge.
(c)
Time limits.
Motions for depositions, interrogatories, admissions, or production of documents or things may not be filed within 20 days of the hearing except on order of the Judge for good cause shown. Oppositions to a discovery motion must be filed within 10 days of service unless otherwise provided in these rules or by the Judge.
(d)
Oppositions.
Oppositions to any discovery motion or portion thereof must state with particularity the grounds relied upon. Failure to object in a timely fashion constitutes waiver of the objection.
(e)
Scope of discovery.
The Judge may limit the scope, subject matter, method, time, or place of discovery. Unless otherwise limited by order of the Judge, the scope of discovery is as follows:
(1)
In general.
As allowed under paragraph (b) of this section, parties may obtain discovery of any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the allegations of the charging document, to the proposed relief, or to the defenses of any respondent, or that appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(2)
Hearing preparation: Materials.
A party may not obtain discovery of materials prepared in anticipation of litigation except upon a showing that the party seeking discovery has a substantial need for the materials in preparation of his or her case and is unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial equivalent of the materials by other means. Mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney or other representative of a party are not discoverable under this section.
(3)
Hearing preparation: Experts.
A party may discover the substance of the facts and opinions to which an expert witness is expected to testify and a summary of the grounds for each opinion. A party may also discover facts known or opinions held by an expert consulted by another party in anticipation of litigation but not expected to be called as a witness upon a showing of exceptional circumstances making it impracticable for the party seeking discovery to obtain such facts or opinions by other means.
(f)
Failure to comply.
If a party fails to comply with any provision of this section, including with respect to their Initial Disclosures, a subpoena, or an order concerning discovery, the Judge may, in the interest of justice:
(1) Infer that the admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have been adverse to the party;
(2) Rule that the matter or matters covered by the order or subpoena are established adversely to the party;
(3) Rule that the party may not introduce into evidence or otherwise rely upon, in support of any claim or defense, testimony by such party, officer, or agent, or the documents or other evidence;
(4) Rule that the party may not be heard to object to introduction and use of secondary evidence to show what the withheld admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have shown; or
(5) Strike part or all of a pleading (except a request for hearing), a motion or other submission by the party, concerning the matter or matters covered by the order or subpoena.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.241
Depositions.
(a)
Notice.
If a motion for deposition is granted, and unless otherwise ordered by the Judge, the party taking the deposition of any person must
serve on that person and on any other party written notice at least 15 days before the deposition would be taken (or 25 days if the deposition is to be taken outside the United States). The notice must state the name and address of each person to be examined, the time and place where the examination would be held, the name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address (if one is available) of the person before whom the deposition would be taken, and the subject matter about which each person would be examined.
(b)
Taking the deposition.
Depositions may be taken before any officer authorized to administer oaths by the law of the United States or of the place where the examination is to be held, or before a person appointed by the Judge. Each deponent will be sworn, and any party has the right to cross-examine. Objections are not waived by failure to make them during the deposition unless the ground of the objection is one that might have been removed if presented at that time. The deposition will be recorded, transcribed, signed by the deponent, unless waived, and certified by the officer before whom the deposition was taken. All transcription costs associated with the testimony of a deponent will be borne by the party seeking the deposition. Each party will bear its own expense for any copies of the transcript. See also § 904.252(a).
(c)
Alternative deposition methods.
By order of the Judge, the parties may use other methods of deposing parties or witnesses, such as telephonic depositions, depositions through videoconference, or depositions upon written questions. Objections to the form of written questions are waived unless made within 5 days of service of the questions.
(d)
Use of depositions at hearing.
(1) At hearing, part or all of any deposition, so far as admissible under this Part as though the witness were then testifying, may be used against any party who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or had reasonable notice.
(2) The deposition of a witness may be used by any party for any purpose if the Judge finds:
(i) That the witness is unable to attend due to death, age, health, imprisonment, disappearance or distance from the hearing site; or
(ii) That exceptional circumstances make it desirable, in the interest of justice, to allow the deposition to be used.
(3) If only part of a deposition is offered in evidence by a party, any party may introduce any other part.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.242
Interrogatories.
(a)
Service and use.
If ordered by the Judge, any party may serve upon any other party written interrogatories in conformance with § 904.3.
(b)
Answers and objections.
Answers and objections must be made in writing under oath, and reasons for the objections must be stated. Answers must be signed by the person making them and objections must be signed by the party or attorney making them. Unless otherwise ordered, answers and objections must be served on all parties within 20 days after service of the interrogatories in conformance with § 904.3.
(c)
Option to produce records.
Where the answer to an interrogatory may be ascertained from the records of the party upon whom the interrogatory is served, it is sufficient to specify such records and afford the party serving the interrogatories an opportunity to examine them.
(d)
Use of interrogatories at hearing.
Answers may be used at hearing in the same manner as depositions under § 904.241(d).
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.243
Admissions.
(a)
Request.
If ordered by the Judge, any party may serve on any other party a written request for admission of the truth of any relevant matter of fact set forth in the request in conformance with § 904.3, including the genuineness of any relevant document described in the request. Copies of documents must be served with the request. Each matter for which an admission is requested must be separately stated.
(b)
Response.
Each matter is admitted unless a written answer or objection is
served within 20 days of service of the request in conformance with § 904.3, or within such other time as the Judge may allow. The answering party must specifically admit or deny each matter, or state the reasons why he or she cannot truthfully admit or deny it. A denial must fairly respond to the substance of the matter; and when good faith requires that a party qualify an answer or deny only a part of a matter, the answer must specify the part admitted and qualify or deny the rest. The answering party may assert lack of knowledge or information as a reason for failing to admit or deny only if the party states that it has made reasonable inquiry and that the information it knows or can readily obtain is insufficient to enable it to admit or deny.
(c)
Effect of admission.
Any matter admitted is conclusively established unless the Judge on motion permits withdrawal or amendment of it for good cause shown.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.244
Production of documents and inspection.
(a)
Scope.
If ordered by the Judge, any party may serve on any other party a request to produce a copy of any document or specifically designated category of documents, or to inspect, copy, photograph, or test any such document or tangible thing in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served.
(b)
Procedure.
The request must set forth:
(1) The items to be produced or inspected by item or by category, described with reasonable particularity, and
(2) A reasonable time, place, and manner for inspection. The party upon whom the request is served must serve within 20 days a response or objections, which must address each item or category and include copies of the requested documents.
§ 904.245
Subpoenas.
(a)
In general.
Subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence for the purpose of discovery or hearing may be issued as authorized by the statute under which the proceeding is conducted.
(b)
Timing.
Applications for subpoenas must be submitted at least 15 days before the scheduled hearing or deposition.
(c)
Motions to quash.
Any person to whom a subpoena is directed or any party may move to quash or limit the subpoena within 10 days of its service or on or before the time specified for compliance, whichever is shorter. The Judge may quash or modify the subpoena.
(d)
Enforcement.
In case of disobedience to a subpoena, the requesting party may request the U.S. Department of Justice to invoke the aid of any court of the United States in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence.

# Hearings
§ 904.250
Notice of time and place of hearing.
(a) The Judge shall be responsible for scheduling the hearing. With due regard for the convenience of the parties, their representatives, or witnesses, the Judge shall fix the time, place and date for the hearing and shall notify all parties of the same. The Judge will promptly serve on the parties notice of the time and place of hearing. The hearing will not be held less than 20 days after service of the notice of hearing unless the hearing is expedited as provided under paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) A request for a change in the time, place, or date of the hearing may be granted by the Judge.
(c) Upon the consent of each party to the administrative proceeding, the Judge may order that one or more issues be heard on submissions or affidavits if it appears that such issues may be resolved by means of written materials and that efficient disposition of those issues can be made without an in-person hearing.
(d) At any time after commencement of an administrative proceeding, any
party may move to expedite the scheduling of the administrative proceeding as provided in § 904.209.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.251
Evidence.
(a)
In general.
(1) At the hearing, every party has the right to present oral or documentary evidence in support of its case or defense, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts. This paragraph may not be interpreted to diminish the powers and duties of the Judge under § 904.204.
(2) All evidence that is relevant, material, reliable, and probative, and not unduly repetitious or cumulative, is admissible at the hearing. Formal rules of evidence do not necessarily apply to the administrative proceedings, and hearsay evidence is not inadmissible as such.
(3) In any case involving a charged violation of law in which the respondent has admitted an allegation, evidence may still be presented to establish matters of aggravation or mitigation.
(b)
Objections and offers of proof.
(1) A party shall state the grounds for objection to the admission or exclusion of evidence. Rulings on all objections shall appear in the record. Only objections made before the Judge may be raised on appeal.
(2) Whenever evidence is excluded from the record, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which shall be included in the record.
(c)
Testimony.
(1) Testimony may be received into evidence by the following means:
(i) Oral presentation; and
(ii) Subject to the discretion of the Judge, written affidavit, telephone, video or other electronic media.
(2) Regardless of form, all testimony shall be under oath or affirmation requiring the witness to declare that the witness will testify truthfully, and subject to cross examination.
(d)
Exhibits and documents.
(1) All exhibits shall be numbered and marked with a designation identifying the sponsor. To prove the content of an exhibit, the original writing, recording or photograph is required except that a duplicate or copy is admissible to the same extent as an original unless a genuine question is raised as to the authenticity of the original or, given the circumstances, it would be unfair to admit the duplicate in lieu of the original. The original is not required, and other evidence of the contents of a writing, recording, or photograph is admissible if the original is lost or destroyed, not obtainable, in the possession of the opponent, or not closely related to a controlling issue. Each exhibit offered in evidence or marked for identification shall be filed and retained in the record of decision, unless the Judge permits the substitution of copies for the original document.
(2) In addition to the requirements set forth in § 904.240(a)(2), parties shall exchange all remaining exhibits that will be offered at hearing prior to the beginning of the hearing, except for good cause or as otherwise directed by the Judge. Exhibits that are not exchanged as required may be denied admission into evidence. This requirement does not apply to demonstrative evidence.
(e)
Physical evidence.
(1) Photographs or videos or other electronic media may be substituted for physical evidence at the discretion of the Judge.
(2) Except upon the Judge's order, or upon request by a party, physical evidence will be retained after the hearing by the Agency.
(f)
Stipulations.
The parties may, by written stipulation at any stage of the administrative proceeding or orally at the hearing, agree upon any matters. Stipulations may be received in evidence before or during the hearing and, when received in evidence, shall be binding on the parties to the stipulation.
(g)
Official notice.
The Judge may take official notice of such matters as might be judicially noticed by the courts or of other facts within the specialized knowledge of the agency as an expert body. Where a decision or part thereof rests on official notice of a material fact not appearing in the evidence in the record, the fact of official
notice shall be so stated in the decision, and any party, upon timely request, shall be afforded an opportunity to show the contrary.
(h)
Confidential and sensitive information.
(1) The Judge may limit introduction of evidence or issue protective orders that are required to prevent undue disclosure of classified, confidential, or sensitive matters, which include, but are not limited to, matters of a national security, business, personal, or proprietary nature. Where the Judge determines that information in documents containing classified, confidential, or sensitive matters should be made available to another party, the Judge may direct the offering party to prepare an unclassified or non-sensitive summary or extract of the original. The summary or extract may be admitted as evidence in the record.
(2) If the Judge determines that the procedure described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section is inadequate and that classified or otherwise sensitive matters must form part of the record in order to avoid prejudice to a party, the Judge may advise the parties and provide opportunity for arrangements to permit a party or representative to have access to such matters.
(i)
Foreign law.
A party who intends to raise an issue concerning the law of a foreign country must give reasonable notice. The Judge, in determining foreign law, may consider any relevant material or source, whether or not submitted by a party.
(j)
Foreign language exhibits.
Exhibits in a foreign language must be translated into English before such exhibits are offered into evidence. Copies of both the untranslated and translated versions of the proposed exhibits, along with the name and qualifications of the translator, must be served on the opposing party at least 10 days prior to the hearing unless the parties otherwise agree.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.252
Witnesses.
(a)
Fees.
Witnesses, other than employees of a Federal agency, summoned in an administrative proceeding, including discovery, are eligible to receive the same fees and mileage as witnesses in the courts of the United States.
(b)
Witness counsel.
Any witness not a party may have personal counsel to advise him or her as to his or her rights, but such counsel may not otherwise participate in the hearing.
(c)
Witness exclusion.
Witnesses who are not parties may be excluded from the hearing room prior to the taking of their testimony. An authorized officer is considered a party for the purposes of this subsection.
(d)
Oath or affirmation.
Witnesses shall testify under oath or affirmation requiring the witness to declare that the witness will testify truthfully.
(e)
Failure or refusal to testify.
If a witness fails or refuses to testify, the failure or refusal to answer any question found by the Judge to be proper may be grounds for striking all or part of the testimony given by the witness, or any other action deemed appropriate by the Judge.
(f)
Testimony in a foreign language.
If a witness is expected to testify in a language other than the English language, the party sponsoring the witness must indicate that in its Initial Disclosures so that an interpreter can be arranged for the hearing. When available, the interpreter should be court certified under 28 U.S.C. 1827.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.253
Closing of record.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the evidentiary record shall be closed unless the Judge directs otherwise. Once the record is closed, no additional evidence shall be accepted except upon a showing that the evidence is material and that there was good cause for failure to produce it in a timely fashion. The Judge shall reflect in the record, however, any approved correction to the transcript.
§ 904.254
Interlocutory review.
(a) Application for interlocutory review shall be made to the Judge. The application shall not be certified to the Administrator except when the Judge determines that:
(1) The ruling involves a dispositive question of law or policy about which
there is substantial ground for difference of opinion; or
(2) An immediate ruling will materially advance the completion of the proceeding; or
(3) The denial of an immediate ruling will cause irreparable harm to a party or the public.
(b) Any application for interlocutory review shall:
(1) Be filed with the Judge within 30 days after the Judge's ruling;
(2) Designate the ruling or part thereof from which appeal is being taken;
(3) Set forth the ground on which the appeal lies; and
(4) Present the points of fact and law relied upon in support of the position taken.
(c) Any party that opposes the application may file a response within 20 days after service of the application.
(d) The certification to the Administrator by the Judge shall stay proceedings before the Judge until the matter under interlocutory review is decided.
§ 904.255
Ex parte
communications.
(a) Except to the extent required for disposition of
ex parte
matters as authorized by law, the Judge may not consult a person or party on any matter relevant to the merits of the administrative proceeding, unless there has been notice and opportunity for all parties to participate.
(b) Except to the extent required for the disposition of
ex parte
matters as authorized by law:
(1) No interested person outside the Agency shall make or knowingly cause to be made to the Judge, the Administrator, or any Agency employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the administrative proceeding an
ex parte
communication relevant to the merits of the adjudication; and
(2) Neither the Administrator, the Judge, nor any Agency employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the administrative proceeding, shall make or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person outside the agency an
ex parte
communication relevant to the merits of the administrative proceeding.
(c) The Administrator, the Judge, or any Agency employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process who receives, makes, or knowingly causes to be made a communication prohibited by this rule shall place in the record of decision:
(1) All such written communications;
(2) Memoranda stating the substance of all such oral communications; and
(3) All written responses, and memoranda stating the substance of all oral responses, to the materials described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
(d)(1) Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to communications concerning national defense or foreign policy matters. Such
ex parte
communications to or from an Agency employee on national defense or foreign policy matters, or from employees of the U.S. Government involving intergovernmental negotiations, are allowed if the communicator's position with respect to those matters cannot otherwise be fairly presented for reasons of foreign policy or national defense.
(2)
Ex parte
communications subject to this paragraph will be made a part of the record to the extent that they do not include information classified under an Executive order. Classified information will be included in a classified portion of the record that will be available for review only in accordance with applicable law.
(e) Upon receipt of a communication made, or knowingly caused to be made, by a party in violation of this section the Judge may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice, national security, the policy of underlying statutes, require the party to show cause why its claim or interest in the adjudication should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected by reason of such violation.
(f) The prohibitions of this rule shall apply beginning after issuance of a NOVA, NOPS, NIDP or any other notice and until a final administrative decision is rendered, but in no event shall they begin to apply later than the
time at which an administrative proceeding is noticed for hearing unless the person responsible for the communication has knowledge that it will be noticed, in which case the prohibitions shall apply beginning at the time of her/his acquisition of such knowledge.

# Post-Hearing
§ 904.260
Recordation of hearing.
(a) All hearings shall be recorded.
(b) The official transcript of testimony taken, together with any exhibits, briefs, or memoranda of law filed therewith, will be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. Transcripts of testimony will be available in any hearing and will be supplied to the parties at the cost of the Agency.
(c) The Judge may determine whether “ordinary copy”, “daily copy”, or other copy (as those terms are defined by contract) will be necessary and required for the proper conduct of the administrative proceeding.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.261
Post-hearing briefs.
(a) The parties may file post-hearing briefs that include proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law within 30 days from service of the hearing transcript. Reply briefs may be submitted within 15 days after service of the proposed findings and conclusions to which they respond.
(b) The Judge, in his or her discretion, may establish a different date for filing either initial briefs or reply briefs with the court.
(c) In cases involving few parties, limited issues, and short hearings, the Judge may require or a party may request that any proposed findings and conclusions and reasons in support be presented orally at the close of a hearing. In granting such cases, the Judge will advise the parties in advance of hearing.

# Decision
§ 904.270
Record of decision.
(a) The exclusive record of decision consists of the official transcript of testimony and administrative proceedings; exhibits admitted into evidence; briefs, pleadings, and other documents filed in the administrative proceeding; and descriptions or copies of matters, facts, or documents officially noticed in the administrative proceeding. Any other exhibits and records of any
ex parte
communications will accompany the record of decision.
(b) The Judge will arrange for appropriate storage of the records of any administrative proceeding, which place of storage need not necessarily be located physically within the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.271
Initial decision.
(a) After expiration of the period provided in § 904.261 for the filing of reply briefs (unless the parties have waived briefs or presented proposed findings orally at the hearing), the Judge will render an Initial Decision upon the record in the case, setting forth:
(1) Findings and conclusions, and the reasons or bases therefor, on all material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record;
(2) An order as to the final disposition of the case, including any appropriate ruling, order, sanction, relief, or denial thereof;
(3) The date upon which the decision will become effective; and
(4) A statement of further right to appeal.
(b) If the parties have presented oral proposed findings at the hearing or have waived presentation of proposed findings, the Judge may at the termination of the hearing announce the decision, subject to later issuance of a written Initial Decision under paragraph (a) of this section. In such cases, the Judge may direct the prevailing party to prepare proposed findings, conclusions, and an order.
(c) The Judge will serve the Initial Decision on each of the parties, the Chief of the Enforcement Section of the NOAA Office of General Counsel, and the Administrator. Upon request, the Judge will promptly certify to the Administrator the record, including the original copy of the Initial Decision, as complete and accurate.
(d) An Initial Decision becomes effective as the final administrative decision of NOAA 60 days after service, unless:
(1) Otherwise provided by statute or regulations;
(2) The Judge grants a petition for reconsideration under § 904.272; or
(3) A petition for discretionary review is filed or the Administrator issues an order to review upon his/her own initiative under § 904.273.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.272
Petition for reconsideration.
Unless an order or Initial Decision of the Judge specifically provides otherwise, any party may file a petition for reconsideration of an order or Initial Decision issued by the Judge. Such petitions must state the matter claimed to have been erroneously decided, and the alleged errors and relief sought must be specified with particularity. Petitions must be filed within 20 days after the service of such order or Initial Decision. The filing of a petition for reconsideration shall operate as a stay of an order or Initial Decision or its effectiveness date unless specifically so ordered by the Judge. Within 15 days after the petition is filed, any party to the administrative proceeding may file an answer in support or in opposition.
[87 FR 38940, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.273
Administrative review of decision.
(a) Subject to the requirements of this section, any party who wishes to seek review of an Initial Decision of a Judge must Petition for Review of the Initial Decision within 30 days after the date the decision is served. The petition must be served on the Administrator in conformance with § 904.3(b) at the following address: Administrator, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, Room 5128, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230. Copies of the Petition for Review, and all other documents and materials required in paragraph (d) of this section, must be served in conformance with § 904.3(b) on all parties and to either
administrative.appeals@noaa.gov
or the following address: Chief, Oceans and Coasts Section, NOAA Office of General Counsel, 1305 East-West Highway, SSMC 4, Suite 6111, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
(b) The Administrator may elect to issue an order to review the Initial Decision without petition and may affirm, reverse, modify or remand, in whole or in part, the Judge's Initial Decision. Any such order must be issued within 60 days after the date the Initial Decision is served.
(c) Review by the Administrator of an Initial Decision is discretionary and is not a matter of right. If a party files a timely petition for discretionary review, or review is timely initiated by the Administrator, the effectiveness of the Initial Decision is stayed until further order of the Administrator or until the Initial Decision becomes final pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section. In determining whether or not to grant discretionary review, the Administrator will consider:
(1) Whether the Initial Decision contains significant factual or legal errors that warrant further review by the Administrator; and
(2) Whether fairness or other policy considerations warrant further consideration by the Administrator. Types of cases that fall within these criteria include, but are not limited to, those in which;
(i) The Initial Decision conflicts with one or more other NOAA administrative decisions or federal court decisions on an important issue of federal law;
(ii) The Judge decided an important federal question in a way that conflicts with prior rulings of the Administrator;
(iii) The Judge decided a question of federal law that is so important that the Administrator should pass upon it even absent a conflict; or
(iv) The Judge so far departed from the accepted and usual course of administrative proceedings as to call for an exercise of the Administrator's supervisory power.
(d) A Petition for Review must comply with the following requirements regarding format and content:
(1) The petition must include a concise statement of the case, that contains a statement of facts relevant to the issues submitted for review, and a summary of the argument that contains a succinct, clear and accurate statement of the arguments made in the body of the petition;
(2) The petition must set forth, in detail, specific objections to the Initial Decision, the bases for review, and the relief requested;
(3) Each issue raised in the petition must be separately numbered, concisely stated, and supported by detailed citations to specific pages in the record, and to statutes, regulations, and principal authorities. Petitions may not refer to or incorporate by reference entire documents or transcripts;
(4) A copy of the Judge's Initial Decision must be attached to the petition;
(5) Copies of all cited portions of the record must be attached to the petition;
(6) A petition, exclusive of attachments and authorities, must not exceed 20 pages in length and must be in the form articulated in § 904.206(b); and
(7) Issues of fact or law not argued before the Judge may not be raised in the petition unless such issues were raised for the first time in the Judge's Initial Decision, or could not reasonably have been foreseen and raised by the parties during the hearing. The Administrator will not consider new or additional evidence that is not a part of the record before the Judge.
(e) The Administrator may deny a Petition for Review that is untimely or fails to comply with the format and content requirements in paragraph (d) of this section without further review.
(f) No oral argument on Petitions for Review will be allowed.
(g) Within 30 days after service of a petition for discretionary review, any party may file and serve an answer in support or in opposition. An answer must comport with the format and content requirements in paragraphs (d)(5) through (d)(7) of this section and set forth detailed responses to the specific objections, bases for review and relief requested in the petition. No further replies are allowed, unless requested by the Administrator.
(h) If the Administrator has taken no action in response to the petition within 120 days after the petition is served, said petition shall be deemed denied and the Judge's Initial Decision shall become the final agency decision with an effective date 150 days after the petition is served.
(i) If the Administrator issues an order denying discretionary review, the order will be served on all parties in conformance with § 904.3, and will specify the date upon which the Judge's Initial Decision will become effective as the final agency decision. The Administrator need not give reasons for denying review.
(j) If the Administrator grants discretionary review or elects to review the Initial Decision without petition, the Administrator will issue an order to that effect. Such order may identify issues to be briefed and a briefing schedule. Such issues may include one or more of the issues raised in the Petition for Review and any other matters the Administrator wishes to review. Only those issues identified in the order may be argued in any briefs permitted under the order. The Administrator may choose to not order any additional briefing, and may instead make a final determination based on any Petitions for Review, any responses and the existing record.
(k) If the Administrator grants or elects to take discretionary review, and after expiration of the period for filing any additional briefs under paragraph (j) of this section, the Administrator will render a written decision on the issues under review. The Administrator will serve the decision on each of the parties in conformance with § 904.3. The Administrator's decision becomes the final administrative decision on the date it is served, unless otherwise provided in the decision, and is a final agency action for purposes of judicial review; except that an Administrator's decision to remand the Initial Decision to the Judge is not final agency action.
(l) An Initial Decision shall not be subject to judicial review unless:
(1) The party seeking judicial review has exhausted its opportunity for administrative review by filing a Petition
for Review with the Administrator in compliance with this section, and
(2) The Administrator has issued a final ruling on the petition that constitutes final agency action under paragraph (k) of this section or the Judge's Initial Decision has become the final agency decision under paragraph (h) or (i) of this section.
(m) For purposes of any subsequent judicial review of the agency decision, any issues that are not identified in any Petition for Review, in any answer in support or opposition, by the Administrator, or in any modifications to the Initial Decision are waived.
(n) If an action is filed for judicial review of a final agency decision, and the decision is vacated or remanded by a court, the Administrator shall issue an order addressing further administrative proceedings in the matter. Such order may include a remand to the Chief Administrative Law Judge for further proceedings consistent with the judicial decision, or further briefing before the Administrator on any issues the Administrator deems appropriate.
[87 FR 38940, June 30, 2022]

# Subpart D—Permit Sanctions and Denials

# General
§ 904.300
Scope and applicability.
(a) This subpart sets forth procedures governing the suspension, revocation, modification, and denial of permits. The bases for sanctioning a permit are set forth in § 904.301.
(1)
Revocation.
A permit may be cancelled, with or without prejudice to issuance of the permit in the future. Additional requirements for issuance of any future permit may be imposed.
(2)
Suspension.
A permit may be suspended either for a specified period of time or until stated requirements are met, or both. If contingent on stated requirements being met, the suspension is with prejudice to issuance of any permit until the requirements are met.
(3)
Modification.
A permit may be modified, as by imposing additional conditions and restrictions. If the permit was issued for a foreign fishing vessel under section 204(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, additional conditions and restrictions may be imposed on the application of the foreign nation involved and on any permits issued under such application.
(4)
Denial.
Issuance of a permit in the future may be denied through imposition of a permit denial.
(b) This subpart does not apply to the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, as amended (51 U.S.C. 60101
et seq.
), or to the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (30 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.
). Regulations governing denials of licenses issued under the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, as amended (51 U.S.C. 60101
et seq.
), appear at 15 CFR part 960. Regulations governing sanctions and denials of permits issued under the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (30 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.
) appear at 15 CFR part 970.
[87 FR 38941, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.301
Bases for permit sanctions or denials.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in a settlement agreement, or otherwise provided by statutes or in this subpart, NOAA may sanction any permit issued under the statutes cited in § 904.1(c). The bases for an action to sanction or deny a permit include the following:
(1) Violation of any statute administered by NOAA, including violation of any regulation promulgated or permit condition or restriction prescribed thereunder, by the permit holder/applicant or with the use of a permitted vessel;
(2) The failure to pay a civil penalty imposed under any marine resource law administered by NOAA;
(3) The failure to pay a criminal fine imposed or to satisfy any other liability incurred in a judicial proceeding under any of the statutes administered by NOAA; or
(4) The failure to pay any amount in settlement of a civil forfeiture imposed on a vessel or other property.
(b) A sanction may be applied to a permit involved in the underlying violation, as well as to any permit held or sought by the permit holder/applicant, including permits for other vessels. (See, e.g., 16 U.S.C. 1858(g)(1)(i)).
(c) A permit sanction may not be extinguished by sale or transfer. A vessel's permit sanction is not extinguished by sale or transfer of the vessel, nor by dissolution or reincorporation of a vessel owner corporation, and shall remain with the vessel until lifted by NOAA.
[87 FR 38941, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.302
Notice of permit sanction (NOPS).
(a) Service of a NOPS against a permit issued to a foreign fishing vessel will be made on the agent authorized to receive and respond to any legal process for vessels of that country.
(b) The NOPS will set forth the permit sanction to be imposed, the bases for the permit sanction, and any opportunity for a hearing. It will state the effective date of the permit sanction, which will ordinarily not be earlier than 30 days after the date of receipt of the NOPS (see § 904.322).
(c) Upon demand by an authorized enforcement officer, a permit holder must surrender a permit against which a permit sanction has taken effect. The effectiveness of the permit sanction, however, does not depend on surrender of the permit.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38941, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.303
Notice of intent to deny permit (NIDP).
(a) [Reserved]
(b) The NIDP will set forth the basis for its issuance and any opportunity for a hearing.
(c) NOAA will not refund any fee(s) submitted with a permit application if a NIDP is issued.
(d) A NIDP may be issued in conjunction with or independent of a NOPS.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38941, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.304
Opportunity for hearing.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the recipient of a NOPS or NIDP will be provided an opportunity for a hearing, as governed by § 904.201.
(b) There will be no opportunity for a hearing to contest a NOPS or NIDP if the permit holder/applicant had a previous opportunity to participate as a party in an administrative or judicial proceeding with respect to the violation that forms the basis for the NOPS or NIDP, whether or not the permit holder/applicant did participate, and whether or not such a proceeding was held.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38941, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.305
Final administrative decision.
(a) If no request for hearing is timely filed as provided in § 904.201(a), the NOPS or NIDP becomes effective as the final administrative decision and order of NOAA 30 days after service of the NOPS or NIDP or on the last day of any delay period granted.
(b) If a request for hearing is timely filed in accordance with § 904.201(a), the date of the final administrative decision is as provided in subpart C of this part.

# Permit Sanctions for Noncompliance
§ 904.310
[Reserved]
§ 904.311
Effect of payment on permit sanction.
Where a permit has been sanctioned on one of the bases set forth in § 904.301(a)(2) through (4) and the permit holder/applicant pays the criminal fine, civil penalty, or amount in settlement of a civil forfeiture in full or agrees to terms satisfactory to NOAA for payment:
(a) The suspension will not take effect;
(b) Any permit suspended under § 904.301(a)(2) through (4) will be reinstated by order of NOAA; or
(c) Any application by the permit holder may be granted if the permit holder is otherwise qualified to receive the permit.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]

# Permit Sanction for Violations
§ 904.320
[Reserved]
§ 904.321
Reinstatement of permit.
(a) A permit suspended for a specified period of time will be reinstated automatically at the end of the period.
(b) A permit suspended until stated requirements are met will be reinstated only by order of NOAA.
§ 904.322
Interim action.
(a) To protect marine resources during the pendency of an action under this subpart, in cases of willfulness, or as otherwise required in the interest of public health, welfare, or safety, a Judge may order immediate suspension, modification, or withholding of a permit until a decision is made on the action proposed in a NOPS or NIDP.
(b) The Judge will order interim action under paragraph (a) of this section, only after finding that there exists probable cause to believe that the violation charged in the NOPS or NIDP was committed. The Judge's finding of probable cause, which will be summarized in the order, may be made:
(1) After review of the factual basis of the alleged violation, following an opportunity for the parties to submit their views (orally or in writing, in the Judge's discretion); or
(2) By adoption of an equivalent finding of probable cause or an admission in any administrative or judicial proceeding to which the recipient of the NOPS or NIDP was a party, including, but not limited to, a hearing to arrest or set bond for a vessel in a civil forfeiture action or an arraignment or other hearing in a criminal action. Adoption of a finding or admission under this paragraph may be made only after the Judge reviews pertinent portions of the transcript or other records, documents, or pleadings from the other proceeding.
(c) An order for interim action under paragraph (a) of this section is unappealable and will remain in effect until a decision is made on the NOPS or NIDP. Where such interim action has been taken, the Judge will expedite any hearing requested under § 904.304.

# Subpart E—Written Warnings
§ 904.400
Purpose and scope.
This subpart sets forth the policy and procedures governing the issuance and use of written warnings by persons authorized to enforce the statutes administered by NOAA, and the review of such warnings. A written warning may be issued in lieu of assessing a civil penalty or initiating criminal prosecution for violation of any of the laws cited in § 904.1(c).
§ 904.401
Written warning as a prior violation.
A written warning may be used as a basis for dealing more severely with a subsequent violation, including, but not limited to, a violation of the same statute or a violation involving an activity that is related to the prior violation.
§ 904.402
Procedures.
(a) Any person authorized to enforce the laws listed in § 904.1(c) or Agency counsel may serve a written warning on a respondent.
(b) The written warning will:
(1) State that it is a “written warning”;
(2) State the factual and statutory or regulatory basis for its issuance;
(3) Advise the respondent of its effect in the event of a future violation; and
(4) Inform the respondent of the right of review and appeal under § 904.403.
(c) NOAA will maintain a record of written warnings that are issued.
(d) If, within 120 days of the date of the written warning, further investigation indicates that the violation is more serious than realized at the time the written warning was issued, or that the respondent previously committed a similar violation for which a written warning was issued or other enforcement action was taken, NOAA may withdraw the warning and commence other administrative or judicial proceedings.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.403
Review and appeal of a written warning.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) The recipient of a written warning may appeal to the NOAA Deputy General Counsel. The appeal must be served in conformance with § 904.3 and submitted to
administrative.appeals@noaa.gov
or the NOAA Office of the General Counsel, Herbert Hoover Office Building, 14th
Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230, within 60 days of receipt of the written warning.
(1) An appeal from a written warning must be in writing and must present the facts and circumstances that explain or deny the violation described in the written warning.
(2) [Reserved]
(c) The NOAA Deputy General Counsel may, in his or her discretion, affirm, vacate, or modify the written warning and will notify the respondent of the determination. The NOAA Deputy General Counsel's determination constitutes the final agency action.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]

# Subpart F—Seizure and Forfeiture Procedures
§ 904.500
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart sets forth procedures governing the release, abandonment, forfeiture, remission of forfeiture, or return of property seized under any of the laws cited in § 904.1(c).
(b) Except as provided in this subpart, these regulations apply to all seized property subject to forfeiture under any of the laws cited in § 904.1(c). This subpart is in addition to, and not in contradiction of, any special rules regarding seizure, holding or disposition of property seized under these statutes.
[87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.501
Notice of seizure.
Within 60 days from the date of the seizure, NOAA will serve a Notice of Seizure on the owner or consignee, if known or easily ascertainable, or other party that the facts of record indicate has an interest in the seized property. In cases where the property is seized by a state or local law enforcement agency; a Notice of Seizure will be served in the above manner within 90 days from the date of the seizure. The Notice will describe the seized property and state the time, place and reason for the seizure, including the provisions of law alleged to have been violated. The Notice will inform each interested party of his or her right to file a claim to the seized property, and state a date by which a claim must be filed, which may not be less than 35 days after service of the Notice. The Notice may be combined with a Notice of the sale of perishable fish issued under § 904.505. If a claim is filed, the case will be referred promptly to the U.S. Department of Justice for institution of judicial proceedings.
[87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.502
Bonded release of seized property.
(a) As authorized by applicable statute, at any time after seizure of any property, NOAA may, in its sole discretion, release any seized property upon deposit with NOAA of the full value of the property or such lesser amount as NOAA deems sufficient to protect the interests served by the applicable statute. In addition, NOAA may, in its sole discretion, accept a bond or other security in place of fish, wildlife, or other property seized. The bond will contain such conditions as NOAA deems appropriate.
(b) Property may be released under this section only if possession thereof will not violate or frustrate the purpose or policy of any applicable law or regulation. Property that will not be released includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Property in which NOAA is not satisfied that the requester has a substantial interest;
(2) Property whose entry into the commerce of the United States is prohibited;
(3) Live animals, except in the interest of the animals' welfare; or
(4) Property whose release appears to NOAA not to be in the best interest of the United States or serve the purposes of the applicable statute.
(c) If NOAA grants the request, the amount paid by the requester will be deposited in a NOAA suspense account. The amount so deposited will for all purposes be considered to represent the property seized and subject to forfeiture, and payment of the amount by
requester constitutes a waiver by requester of any claim rising from the seizure and custody of the property. NOAA will maintain the money so deposited pending further order of NOAA, order of a court, or disposition by applicable administrative proceedings.
(d) A request for release need not be in any particular form, but must set forth the following:
(1) A description of the property seized;
(2) The date and place of the seizure;
(3) The requester's interest in the property, supported as appropriate by bills of sale, contracts, mortgages, or other satisfactory evidence;
(4) The facts and circumstances relied upon by the requester to justify the remission or mitigation;
(5) An offer of payment to protect the United States' interest that requester makes in return for release;
(6) The signature of the requester, his or her attorney, or other authorized agent; and
(7) A request to defer administrative or judicial forfeiture proceedings until completion of all other related judicial or administrative proceedings (including any associated civil penalty or permit sanction proceedings).
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.503
Appraisement.
NOAA may appraise seized property to determine its domestic value. Domestic value means the price at which such or similar property is offered for sale at the time and place of appraisement in the ordinary course of trade. If there is no market for the seized property at the place of appraisement, the value in the principal market nearest the place of appraisement may be used. If the seized property may not lawfully be sold in the United States, its domestic value may be determined by other reasonable means.
[87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.504
Administrative forfeiture proceedings.
(a)
When authorized.
This section applies to property with a value of $500,000 or less, and that is subject to administrative forfeiture under the applicable statute. This section does not apply to conveyances seized in connection with criminal proceedings.
(b)
Procedure.
(1) Within 60 days from the date of the seizure, or within 90 days of the date of the seizure where the property is seized by a state or local law enforcement agency, NOAA will publish a Notice of Proposed Forfeiture once a week for at least three successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the Federal judicial district in which the property was seized or post a notice on an official government forfeiture website for at least 30 consecutive days. However, if the value of the seized property does not exceed $1,000, the Notice may be published by posting for at least three successive weeks in a conspicuous place accessible to the public at the National Marine Fisheries Service Enforcement Office, U.S. District Court, or the U.S. Customs House nearest the place of seizure, with the date of posting indicated on the Notice. In addition, a reasonable effort will be made to serve the Notice on each person whose identity, address and interest in the property are known or easily ascertainable.
(2) The Notice of Proposed Forfeiture will:
(i) Describe the seized property, including any applicable registration or serial numbers;
(ii) State the time, place and reason for the seizure, including the provisions of law allegedly violated; and
(iii) Describe the rights of an interested person to file a claim to the property (including the right to petition to remit or mitigate the forfeiture).
(3)(i) Any person claiming the seized property may file a claim with NOAA, at the address indicated in the Notice, within 30 days of the date the final Notice was published or posted. The claim must state the claimant's interest in the property.
(ii) Filing a claim does not entitle the claimant to possession of the property. However, it does stop administrative forfeiture proceedings.
(iii) If the claim is timely filed in accordance with this section, NOAA will refer the matter to the U.S. Department of Justice to institute forfeiture
proceedings in the appropriate U.S. District Court.
(4) If a claim is not filed within 30 days of the date the final Notice is published or posted in accordance with this section, NOAA will declare the property forfeited. The Declaration of Forfeiture will be in writing and will be served as provided in § 904.3, on each person whose identity and address and prior interest in the seized property are known or easily ascertainable. The Declaration will describe the property and state the time, place, and reason for its seizure, including the provisions of law violated. The Declaration will identify the Notice of Proposed Forfeiture, describing the dates and manner of publication of the Notice and any efforts made to serve the Notice as provided in § 904.3. The Declaration will state that in response to the Notice a proper claim was not timely received by the proper office from any claimant, and that therefore all potential claimants are deemed to admit the truth of the allegations of the Notice. The Declaration shall conclude with an order of condemnation and forfeiture of the property to the United States for disposition according to law. All forfeited property will be subject to disposition as authorized by law and regulations of NOAA.
(5) If the appraised value of the property is more than $500,000, or a timely and satisfactory claim for property appraised at $500,000 or less is submitted to NOAA, the matter will be referred to the U.S. Department of Justice to institute
in rem
proceedings in the appropriate U.S. District Court.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.505
Summary sale.
(a) In view of the perishable nature of fish, any person authorized to enforce a statute administered by NOAA may, as authorized by law, sell or cause to be sold, and any person may purchase, for not less than its domestic fair market value, fish seized under such statute.
(b) Any person purchasing fish subject to this section must deliver the proceeds of the sale to a person authorized to enforce a statute administered by NOAA immediately upon request of such authorized person. Anyone who does not so deliver the proceeds may be subject to penalties under the applicable statute or statutes.
(c) NOAA will serve the Notice of the Summary Sale on the owner or consignee, if known or easily ascertainable, or to any other party that the facts of record indicate has an interest in the seized fish, unless the owner or consignee or other interested party has otherwise been personally notified. Notice will be sent either prior to the sale, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
(d) The proceeds of the sale, after deducting any reasonable costs of the sale, will be subject to any administrative or judicial proceedings in the same manner as the seized fish would have been, including an action in rem for the forfeiture of the proceeds. Pending disposition of such proceedings, the proceeds will, as appropriate, either be deposited in a NOAA suspense account or submitted to the appropriate court.
(e) Seizure and sale of fish is without prejudice to any other remedy or sanction authorized by law.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38942, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.506
Remission of forfeiture and restoration of proceeds of sale.
(a)
Application of this section.
(1) This section establishes procedures for filing with NOAA a petition for the return of any property which has been or may be administratively forfeited under the provisions of any statute administered by NOAA that authorizes the remission or mitigation of forfeitures.
(2) Although NOAA may properly consider a petition for remission or mitigation of forfeiture and restoration of proceeds of sale along with other consequences of a violation, the remission or mitigation of a forfeiture and restoration of proceeds is not dispositive of any criminal charge filed, civil penalty assessed, or permit sanction proposed, unless NOAA expressly so states. Remission or mitigation of forfeiture and restoration of proceeds is in the nature of executive clemency and is granted in the sole discretion of NOAA only when consistent with the purposes of the particular statute involved and this section.
(3) If no petition is timely filed, or if the petition is denied, prior to depositing the proceeds NOAA may use the proceeds of sale to reimburse the U.S. Government for any costs that by law may be paid from such sums.
(4) If NOAA remits the forfeiture and the forfeited property has not been sold, then restoration may be conditioned upon payment of any applicable costs as defined in this subpart.
(b)
Petition for relief from forfeiture.
(1) Any person claiming an interest in any property which has been or may be administratively forfeited under the provisions of § 904.504 may, at any time after seizure of the property, but no later than 90 days after the date of forfeiture, petition for a remission or mitigation of the forfeiture and restoration of the proceeds of such sale, or such part thereof as may be claimed by the petitioner by serving the petition in conformance with § 904.3 on
administrative.appeals@noaa.gov
or the Chief of the Enforcement Section of the NOAA Office of General Counsel, 1315 East-West Highway, SSMC 3, Suite 15828, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
(2) The petition need not be in any particular form, but must set forth the following:
(i) A description of the property seized;
(ii) The date and place of the seizure;
(iii) The petitioner's interest in the property, supported as appropriate by bills of sale, contracts, mortgages, or other satisfactory evidence;
(iv) The facts and circumstances relied upon by the petitioner to justify the remission or mitigation of forfeiture and restoration of proceeds. If the claim is made after the property is forfeited, the petitioner must provide satisfactory proof that the petitioner did not know of the seizure prior to the declaration or condemnation of forfeiture, was in such circumstances as prevented him or her from knowing of the same, and that such forfeiture was incurred without any willful negligence or intention to violate the applicable statute on the part of the petitioner; and
(v) The signature of the petitioner, his or her attorney, or other authorized agent.
(3) NOAA will not consider a petition for remission or mitigation of forfeiture and restoration of proceeds while a forfeiture proceeding is pending in Federal court. Once such a case is referred to the U.S. Department of Justice for institution of judicial proceedings, and until the proceedings are completed, any petition received by NOAA will be forwarded to the U.S. Department of Justice for consideration.
(4) A false statement in a petition will subject petitioner to prosecution under 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(c)
Investigation.
NOAA will investigate the facts and circumstances shown by the petition and seizure, and may in this respect appoint an investigator to examine the facts and prepare a report of investigation.
(d)
Determination of petition.
(1) After investigation under paragraph (c) of this section, NOAA will make a determination on the matter and notify the petitioner. NOAA may remit or mitigate the forfeiture, on such terms and conditions as are deemed reasonable and just under the applicable statute and the circumstances.
(2) Unless NOAA determines no valid purpose would be served, NOAA will condition a determination to remit or mitigate a forfeiture upon the petitioner's submission of an agreement, in a form satisfactory to NOAA, to hold the United States and its officers or agents harmless from any and all claims based on loss of or damage to the seized property or that might result from grant of remission or mitigation and restoration of proceeds. If the petitioner is not the beneficial owner of the property, or if there are others with a proprietary interest in the property, NOAA may require the petitioner to submit such an agreement executed by the beneficial owner or other interested party. NOAA may also require that the property be promptly exported from the United States.
(e)
Compliance with the determination.
A determination by NOAA to remit or mitigate the forfeiture and restore the proceeds upon stated conditions, as upon payment of a specified amount, will be effective for 60 days after the date of the determination. If the petitioner does not comply with the conditions within that period in a manner
prescribed by the determination, or make arrangements satisfactory to NOAA for later compliance, the remission or mitigation and restoration of proceeds will be void, and judicial or administrative forfeiture proceedings will be instituted or resumed.
(f)
Appropriated property.
If forfeited property that is the subject of a claim for restoration of proceeds has been appropriated for official use, retention by the U.S. Government will be regarded as a sale for the purposes of this section.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38943, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.507
Recovery of certain storage costs.
If any fish, wildlife, or evidentiary property is seized and forfeited under the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531 through 1543, any person whose act or omission was the basis for the seizure may be charged a reasonable fee for expenses to the United States connected with the transfer, board, handling or storage of such property. If any fish or wildlife is seized in connection with a violation of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, 16 U.S.C. 3371 through 3378, or any property is seized in connection with a violation of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1801 through 1882, any person convicted thereof, or assessed a civil penalty therefor, may be assessed a reasonable fee for expenses of the United States connected with the storage, care and maintenance of such property. Within a reasonable time after forfeiture, NOAA will send to such person by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, a bill for such fee. The bill will contain an itemized statement of the applicable costs, and instructions on the time and manner of payment. Payment must be made in accordance with the bill. If the recipient of the bill objects to the reasonableness of the costs assessed he or she may, within 30 days of receipt, file written objections with NOAA at the address stated in the bill. NOAA will promptly review the written objections and within 30 days mail the final determination to the party who filed them. NOAA's determination will constitute final agency action on the matter.
§ 904.508
Voluntary forfeiture by abandonment.
(a) The owner of seized property may voluntarily forfeit all right, title, and interest in the property by abandoning it to NOAA. Voluntary forfeiture by abandonment under this section may be accomplished by various means, including, but not limited to: expressly waiving any claim to the property by voluntarily relinquishing any right, title, and interest by written agreement or otherwise; or refusing or otherwise avoiding delivery of returned property; or failing to respond within 90 days of service of any certified or registered notice regarding a return of seized property issued under § 904.510(b).
(b) Property will be declared finally forfeited by abandonment, without recourse, upon a finding of abandonment by NOAA.
§ 904.509
Disposal of forfeited property.
(a)
Delivery to Administrator.
Upon forfeiture of any fish, wildlife, parts or products thereof, or other property to the United States, including the abandonment or waiver of any claim to any such property, it will be delivered to NOAA for storage or disposal according to the provisions of this section.
(b)
Disposal.
Disposal may be accomplished by one of the following means unless the property is the subject of a petition for remission or mitigation of forfeiture or disposed of by court order:
(1) Return to the wild;
(2) Use by NOAA or transfer to another government agency for official use;
(3) Donation or loan;
(4) Sale; or
(5) Destruction.
(c)
Purposes of disposal.
Disposal procedures may be used to alleviate overcrowding of evidence storage facilities; to avoid the accumulation of seized property where disposal is not otherwise accomplished by court order; to address the needs of governmental agencies and other institutions and organizations for such property for scientific, educational, and public display purposes; and for other valid reasons.
In no case will property be used for personal purposes, either by loan recipients or government personnel.
(d)
Disposal of evidence.
Property that is evidence may be disposed of only after authorization by the NOAA Office of General Counsel. Disposal approval usually will not be given until the case involving the evidence is closed, except that perishable property may be authorized for disposal sooner.
(e)
Loans
—(1)
To institutions.
Property approved for disposal may be loaned to institutions or organizations requesting such property for scientific, educational, or public display purposes. Property will be loaned only after execution of a loan agreement which provides, among other things, that the loaned property will be used only for noncommercial scientific, educational, or public display purposes, and that it will remain the property of the U.S. Government, which may demand its return at any time. Parties requesting the loan of property must demonstrate the ability to provide adequate care and security for the property. Loans may be made to responsible agencies of foreign governments in accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.
(2)
To individuals.
Property generally will not be loaned to individuals not affiliated with an institution or organization unless it is clear that the property will be used in a noncommercial manner, and for scientific, educational, or public display purposes which are in the public interest.
(3)
Selection of loan recipients.
Recipients of property will be chosen so as to assure a wide distribution of the property throughout the scientific, educational, public display and museum communities. Other branches of NMFS, NOAA, the Department of Commerce, and other governmental agencies will have the right of first refusal of any property offered for disposal. The Administrator may solicit applications, by publication of a notice in the
Federal Register
, from qualified persons, institutions, and organizations who are interested in obtaining the property being offered. Such notice will contain a statement as to the availability of specific property for which transferees are being sought, and instructions on how and where to make application. Applications will be granted in the following order: other offices of NMFS, NOAA, and the Department of Commerce; U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; other Federal agencies; other governmental agencies; scientific, educational, or other public or private institutions; and private individuals.
(4)
Loan agreement.
Property will be transferred under a loan agreement executed by the Administrator and the borrower. Any attempt on the part of the borrower to retransfer property, even to another institution for related purposes, will violate and invalidate the loan agreement, and entitle the United States to immediate repossession of the property, unless the prior approval of the Administrator has been obtained under § 904.510(d)(5). Violation of the loan agreement may also subject the violator to the civil penalties provided by the laws governing possession and transfer of the property.
(5)
Temporary reloans; documents to accompany property.
Temporary reloans by the borrower to another qualified borrower (as for temporary exhibition) may be made if the Administrator is advised in advance by the borrowers. Temporary loans for more than thirty days must be approved in advance in writing by the Administrator. A copy of the original loan agreement, and a copy of the written approval for reloan, if any, must accompany the property whenever it is temporarily reloaned or is shipped or transported across state or international boundaries.
(f)
Sale.
(1) Any fish, wildlife, parts or products thereof, and other property which has been voluntarily forfeited by abandonment to NOAA may be sold or offered for sale, with the exception of any species or property which is otherwise prohibited from being sold at the time it is to be sold or offered for sale.
(2) Property will be sold in accordance with current Federal Property Management Regulations (41 CFR chapter 101) or U.S. Customs laws and regulations, except that NOAA may:
(i) Sell at fair market value perishable fish pursuant to the summary sales provisions of 15 CFR 904.505; and
(ii) Sell, destroy, or otherwise dispose of property for which it is determined
the expense of keeping it is disproportionate to the value thereof.
(3) The proceeds of sale may be used to reimburse NOAA for any costs which by law NOAA is authorized to recover or to pay any rewards which by law may be paid from sums that NOAA receives.
(g)
Destruction.
(1) Property not otherwise disposed of may be destroyed.
(2) Destruction will be accomplished in accordance with the requirements of 41 CFR parts 101-1 through 101-49.
(3) When destroyed, the fact, manner, and date of destruction and the type and quantity destroyed must be certified by the official actually destroying the property.
(4) No duly authorized officer of NOAA shall be liable for the destruction or other disposition of property made pursuant to this section.
(h)
Recordkeeping.
A disposal form will be completed each time property is disposed of pursuant to the policy and procedure established herein, and will be retained in the case file for the property. These forms will be available to the public.
[71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38943, June 30, 2022]
§ 904.510
Return of seized property.
(a)
Return.
In cases where NOAA, in its sole discretion, determines that forfeiture of seized property would not be in the best interest of the U.S. Government, NOAA will make a reasonable attempt to determine the party that the facts of record indicate has a predominant ownership interest in the seized property and, provided such a determination can be made, will arrange for return of the seized property to that party by appropriate means.
(b)
Notice.
NOAA will serve a Notice of the Return of property as provided by § 904.3, to the owner, consignee, or other party the facts of record indicate has an interest in the seized property. The Notice will describe the seized property, state the time, place, and reason for the seizure and return, and will identify the owner or consignee, and if appropriate, the bailee of the seized property. The Notice of the return also will state that the party to whom the property is being returned is responsible for any distribution of the property to any party who holds a valid claim, right, title or interest in receiving the property, in whole or in part. The Notice also will provide that on presentation of the Notice and proper identification, and the signing of a receipt provided by NOAA, the seized property is authorized to be released.
Pt. 905

# PART 905—USE IN ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS OF INFORMATION COLLECTED BY VOLUNTARY FISHERY DATA COLLECTORS
Sec.
905.1
Scope.
905.2
Definitions.
905.3
Access to information.
905.4
Use of information.
905.5
Exceptions.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1853(f).

# Source:
60 FR 39251, Aug. 2, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.1
Scope.
This part applies to the use, in enforcement proceedings conducted pursuant to the Magnuson Act, the MMPA, and the ESA, of information collected by voluntary fishery data collectors.
§ 905.2
Definitions.
When used in this part:
Consenting owner
means the owner, operator, or crewmember of a vessel carrying a voluntary fishery data collector.
Enforcement proceeding
means any judicial or administrative trial or hearing, initiated for the purpose of imposing any civil or criminal penalty authorized under the Magnuson Act, MMPA, or ESA, including but not limited to, any proceeding initiated to: Impose a monetary penalty; modify, sanction, suspend or revoke a lease, license or permit; secure forfeiture of seized property; or incarcerate an individual.
ESA
means the Endangered Species Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
, and implementing regulations.
Information
means all observations, data, statistics, photographs, film, or recordings collected by a voluntary fishery data collector for conservation and management purposes, as defined by the Magnuson Act, MMPA, or ESA,
while onboard the vessel of a consenting owner.
Magnuson Act
means the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
, and implementing regulations.
MMPA
means the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
and implementing regulations.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of the Interior, their chosen designees, or any other Federal agency authorized to enforce the provisions of the Magnuson Act, MMPA, or ESA.
Vessel
means any vessel as defined at 16 U.S.C. 1802(31).
Voluntary fishery data collector
means:
(1) Any person, including an observer or a sea sampler;
(2) Placed aboard a vessel by the Secretary;
(3) For the purpose of collecting information; and
(4) Whose presence aboard that vessel is not required by the Secretary pursuant to provisions of the Magnuson Act, MMPA, or ESA, or their implementing regulations.
§ 905.3
Access to information.
Information collected by a voluntary fishery data collector:
(a) Is subject to disclosure to both the Secretary and the public, to the extent required or authorized by law; and
(b) Is subject to discovery by any party to an enforcement proceeding, to the extent required or authorized by law.
§ 905.4
Use of information.
(a) Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, information collected by a voluntary fishery data collector may not be introduced by the Secretary as evidence against any consenting owner that is a party to an enforcement proceeding.
(b) Provided that all applicable evidentiary requirements are satisfied:
(1) Information collected by a voluntary fishery data collector may be introduced in an enforcement proceeding by any party except the Secretary;
(2) If information is introduced pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, all information collected by a voluntary fishery data collector may be introduced by any other party, including the Secretary.
(c) Independent evidence derived from information collected by a voluntary fishery data collector may be introduced by any party, including the Secretary, in an enforcement proceeding.
§ 905.5
Exceptions.
The provisions of this part shall not apply in any enforcement proceeding against a consenting owner that alleges the actual or attempted:
(a) Assault, intimidation, or harassment (including sexual harassment) of any person; or
(b) Impairment or interference with the duties of a voluntary fishery data collector.
Pt. 906

# PART 906—NATIONAL APPEALS OFFICE RULES OF PROCEDURE
Sec.
906.1
Purpose and scope.
906.2
Definitions.
906.3
Requesting an appeal and agency record.
906.4
General filing requirements.
906.5
Service.
906.6
Ex parte communications.
906.7
Disqualification of appellate officer.
906.8
Scheduling and pre-hearing conferences.
906.9
Exhibits.
906.10
Evidence.
906.11
Hearing.
906.12
Closing the evidentiary portion of the NAO case record.
906.13
Failure to appear.
906.14
Burden of proof.
906.15
Decisions.
906.16
Reconsideration.
906.17
Review by the Regional Administrator.
906.18
Final decision of the Department.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.;
16 U.S.C. 1374, 1375 and 1416; 16 U.S.C. 1540; 16 U.S.C. 773f; 16 U.S.C. 973f; 16 U.S.C. 1174; 16 U.S.C. 2437; 16 U.S.C. 4013; 16 U.S.C. 5507; 16 U.S.C. 7009; 16 U.S.C. 3637; 16 U.S.C. 5103 and 5106; 16 U.S.C. 5154 and 5158; 16 U.S.C. 6905, and; 16 U.S.C. 5010.

# Source:
79 FR 7060, Feb. 6, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 906.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part sets forth the procedures governing administrative adjudications before the National Appeals Office (NAO).
(b) NAO will adjudicate appeals of initial administrative determinations in limited access privilege programs developed under section 303A of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (MSA) and approved after the effective date of these regulations. Those appeals are informal proceedings.
(c) The procedures in this part may be incorporated by reference in regulations other than those promulgated pursuant to section 303A of the MSA.
(d) The Secretary of Commerce may request that NAO adjudicate appeals in any matter in controversy that requires findings of fact and conclusions of law, and other quasi-judicial matters that the Secretary deems appropriate, consistent with existing regulations. The Secretary will provide notice to potential appellants and to any affected party in these other matters through regulations or actual notice.
(e) The procedures in this part may not be used to seek review of the validity of statutes or regulations.
§ 906.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agency record
means all material and information, including electronic, the office that issued the initial administrative determination relied on or considered in reaching its initial administrative determination, or which otherwise is related to the initial administrative determination.
Appeal
means an appellant's petition to appeal an initial administrative determination and all administrative processes of the National Appeals Office related thereto.
Appellant
means a person who is the named recipient of an initial administrative determination and appeals it to the National Appeals Office.
Appellate officer
means an individual designated by the Chief of the National Appeals Office to adjudicate the appeal. The term may include the Chief of the National Appeals Office.
Day
means calendar day unless otherwise specified by the Chief of the National Appeals Office. When computing any time period specified under these rules, count every day, including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. If the date that ordinarily would be the last day for filing with NAO falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, or a day NAO is closed, the filing period will include the first NAO workday after that date.
Department
or
DOC
means the Department of Commerce.
Initial Administrative Determination
or
IAD
means a determination made by an official of the National Marine Fisheries Service that directly and adversely affects a person's ability to hold, acquire, use, or be issued a limited access privilege. The term also includes determinations issued pursuant to other federal law, for which review has been assigned to the National Appeals Office by the Secretary.
NAO
means the National Appeals Office, an adjudicatory body within the Office of Management and Budget, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce. The term generally means all NAO personnel, including appellate officers.
NAO case record
means the agency record and all additional documents and other materials related to an appeal and maintained by NAO in a case file.
NMFS
means the National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
or
NOAA
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce.
Party
means a person who files a petition for appeal with NAO and an office that issued the IAD if that office participates in the NAO appeal.
Regional Administrator
means the administrator of one of five regions of NMFS: Northeast, Southeast, West Coast, Alaska, or Pacific Islands. The term also includes an official with similar authority within the DOC, such as the Director of NMFS Office of Sustainable Fisheries.
Representative
means an individual properly authorized by an appellant in writing to act for the appellant in conjunction with an appeal pending in NAO. The representative does not need to be a licensed attorney.
§ 906.3
Requesting an appeal and agency record.
(a)
Who may file.
Any person who is the named recipient of an initial administrative determination.
(b)
Petition to appeal.
(1) To request an appeal, a person shall submit a written petition of appeal to NAO.
(2) The petition shall include a copy of the initial administrative determination the person wishes to appeal.
(3) In the petition, the person shall state how the initial administrative determination directly and adversely affects him or her, why he or she believes the initial administrative determination is inconsistent with the law and regulations governing the initial administrative determination, and whether he or she requests a hearing or prefers that an appellate officer make a decision based on the NAO case record and without a hearing.
(i) Arguments not raised by the person in his or her petition to appeal will be deemed waived unless NAO permits amendments to the petition based on good cause for not raising the arguments in the original petition.
(ii) The petition may include additional documentation in support of the appeal.
(4) If a person requests a hearing, the written request must include a concise statement raising genuine and substantial issues of a material fact or law that cannot be resolved based on the documentary evidence.
(5) In the petition, a person shall state whether the person has a representative, and if so, the name, address, and telephone number for the representative.
(c)
Address of record.
In the petition, the person shall identify the address of record. Documents directed to the appellant will be mailed to the address of record, unless the appellant provides NAO and other parties with any changes to his or her address in writing.
(1) The address of record may include a representative's address.
(2) NAO bears no responsibility if the appellant or his or her representative does not receive documents because appellant or his or her representative changed his or her address and did not notify NAO.
(3) NAO bears no responsibility if the appellant or his or her representative fails to retrieve documents upon notification from the United States Postal Service or commercial carrier.
(4) NAO will presume that documents addressed to an address of record and properly mailed or given to a commercial carrier for delivery are received.
(d)
Place of filing.
The petition must be transmitted via facsimile. The facsimile number is: 301-713-2384. If the person filing the petition does not have access to a fax machine, he or she may file the petition by mail or commercial carrier addressed to Chief, National Appeals Office, 1315 East-West Hwy., Silver Spring, MD 20910.
(e)
Time limitations.
(1) A petition must be filed within 45 days after the date the initial administrative determination is issued unless a shorter or longer filing timeframe is explicitly specified in the regulations governing the initial administrative determination.
(2) A person may not request an extension of time to file a petition to appeal.
(f)
Agency record.
(1) Within 20 days of receipt of the copy of the petition to appeal, the office that issued the initial administrative determination that is the subject of the appeal shall transmit the agency record to NAO.
(2) The office that issued the initial administrative determination shall organize the documents of the agency record in chronological order. Pages attached to a primary submission shall remain with the primary submission.
(g)
Agency participation in appeal.
Within 20 days of receipt of the copy of the petition to appeal, the office that issued the initial administrative determination that is the subject of the appeal may provide written notice to NAO that it will be a party to the appeal. An office issuing the initial administrative determination is not required to be a party.
§ 906.4
General filing requirements.
(a)
Date of filing.
Filing refers to providing documents to NAO.
(1) Except for the agency record required under § 906.3(f), all documents filed on behalf of an appellant or related to an appeal shall be submitted to NAO via facsimile. The facsimile number is: 301-713-2384. If the person filing does not have access to a fax machine, he or she may file by regular mail or commercial carrier addressed to Chief, National Appeals Office, 1315 East-West Hwy., Silver Spring, MD 20910.
(2) A document transmitted to NAO is considered filed upon receipt of the entire submission by 5 p.m. Eastern Time at NAO.
(b)
Copies.
At the time of filing a submission to NAO, the filing party shall serve a copy thereof on every other party, unless otherwise provided for in these rules.
(c)
Retention.
All submissions to NAO become part of a NAO case record.
(d)
Extension of time.
When a submission is required to be filed at NAO by a deadline, a party may request, in writing, an extension of time to file the submission, citing the specific reason(s) for the need for an extension. NAO may grant one extension of up to 30 days if an appellate officer determines the party has established good cause for an extension of time, taking into account whether the party timely requested the extension or the extent to which the party missed the deadline.
§ 906.5
Service.
(a) Service refers to providing documents to parties to an appeal.
(1) Service of documents may be made by first class mail (postage prepaid), facsimile, or commercial carrier, or by personal delivery to a party's address of record.
(2) Service of documents will be considered effective upon the date of postmark (or as otherwise shown for government-franked mail), facsimile transmission, delivery to a commercial carrier, or upon personal delivery.
(b) A party shall serve a copy of all documents to all other parties and shall file a copy of all documents with NAO the same business day.
(c) NAO may serve documents by electronic mail.
§ 906.6
Ex parte communications.
(a)
Ex parte communication
means any oral or written communication about the merits of a pending appeal between one party and the NAO with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given. However, ex parte communication does not include inquiries regarding procedures, scheduling, and status.
(b) Ex parte communication is not permissible unless all parties have been given reasonable notice and an opportunity to participate in the communication.
(c) If NAO receives an ex parte communication, NAO shall document the communication and any responses thereto in the NAO case record. If the ex parte communication was in writing, NAO shall include a copy of the communication in the NAO case record. If the ex parte communication was oral, NAO shall prepare a memorandum stating the substance of the oral communication, and include the memorandum in the NAO case record. NAO will provide copies of any such materials included in the NAO case record under this paragraph to the parties.
(d) NAO may require a party to show cause why such party's claim or interest in the appeal should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected because of an ex parte communication.
(e) NAO may suspend this section during an alternative dispute resolution process established by regulation or agency policy.
(f) Communication with NAO, including appellate officers, concerning procedures, scheduling, and status is permissible.
§ 906.7
Disqualification of appellate officer.
(a) An appellate officer shall disqualify himself or herself if the appellate officer has a perceived or actual conflict of interest, a perceived or actual prejudice or bias, for other ethical reasons, or based on principles found in the American Bar Association Model
Code of Judicial Conduct for Administrative Law Judges.
(b) Any party may request an appellate officer, at any time before the filing of the appellate officer's decision, to withdraw on the ground of personal bias or disqualification, by filing a written motion with the appellate officer setting forth in detail the matters alleged to constitute grounds for disqualification.
(c) The appellate officer, orally or in writing, shall grant or deny the motion based on the American Bar Association Model Code of Judicial Conduct for Federal Administrative Law Judges and other applicable law or policy. If the motion is granted, the appellate officer will disqualify himself or herself and withdraw from the proceeding. If the motion is denied, the appellate officer will state the grounds for his or her ruling and proceed with his or her review.
§ 906.8
Scheduling and pre-hearing conferences.
(a) NAO may convene a scheduling and/or pre-hearing conference if, for example, an appellate officer in his or her discretion finds a conference will materially advance the proceeding.
(b) NAO shall notify the parties in writing 10 days prior to a conference unless the Chief of NAO orders a shorter period of time for providing notice of conducting a conference. A party may request one change in the scheduled pre-hearing date. In determining whether to grant the request, NAO will consider whether the requesting party has shown good cause for the change in date.
(c) In exercising his or her discretion whether to hold a scheduling and/or pre-hearing conference, an appellate officer may consider:
(1) Settlement, if authorized under applicable law;
(2) Clarifying the issues under review;
(3) Stipulations;
(4) Hearing(s) date, time, and location;
(5) Identifying witnesses for the hearing(s);
(6) Development of the NAO case record, and;
(7) Other matters that may aid in the disposition of the proceedings.
(d)
Recording.
NAO may record the conference.
(e)
Format.
At the discretion of the appellate officer, conferences may be conducted by telephone, in person, or by teleconference or similar electronic means.
(f) NAO may issue a written order showing the matters disposed of in the conference and may include in the order other matters related to the appeal.
§ 906.9
Exhibits.
(a) The parties shall mark all exhibits in consecutive order in whole Arabic numbers and with a designation identifying the party submitting the exhibit(s).
(b) Parties shall exchange all exhibits that will be offered at the hearing at least 10 days before the hearing.
(c) Parties shall provide all exhibit(s) to NAO at least 5 days before the hearing.
(d) NAO may modify the timeframe for exchanging or submitting exhibits if an appellate officer determines good cause exists.
(e) NAO may deny the admission into evidence of exhibits that are not marked and exchanged pursuant to this rule.
(f) Each exhibit offered in evidence or marked for identification shall be filed and retained in the NAO case record.
§ 906.10
Evidence.
(a) The Federal Rules of Evidence do not apply to NAO proceedings.
(b) An appellate officer will decide whether to admit evidence into the NAO case record.
(1) An appellate officer may exclude unduly repetitious, irrelevant, and immaterial evidence. An appellate officer may also exclude evidence to avoid undue prejudice, confusion of the issues, undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(2) An appellate officer may consider hearsay evidence.
(c) Copies of documents may be offered as evidence, provided they are of equal legibility and quality as the originals, and such copies shall have the same force and effect as if they were originals. If an appellate officer
so directs, a party shall submit original documents to the appellate officer.
(d) An appellate officer may take official notice of Federal or State public records and of any matter of which courts may take judicial notice.
(e) An appellate officer may request, and the program office that issued the initial administrative determination in the case before the appellate officer will provide, the interpretation(s) of the law made by the program office and applied to the facts in the case.
§ 906.11
Hearing.
(a)
Procedures.
(1) An appellate officer in his or her discretion may order a hearing taking into account the information provided by an appellant pursuant to § 906.3(b)(3) and whether an appellate officer considers that a hearing will materially advance his or her evaluation of the issues under appeal. In exercising his or her discretion, an appellate officer may consider whether oral testimony is required to resolve a material issue of fact, whether oral presentation is needed to probe a party's position on a material issue of law, and whether a hearing was held previously for the same appeal. If an appellate officer determines that a hearing is not necessary, then the appellate officer will base his or her decision on the NAO case record. In the absence of a hearing an appellate officer may, at his or her discretion, permit the parties to submit additional materials for consideration.
(2) If an appellate officer convenes a hearing, the hearing will be conducted in the manner determined by NAO most likely to obtain the facts relevant to the matter or matters at issue.
(3) NAO shall schedule the date, time and place for the hearing. NAO will notify the parties in writing of the hearing date, time and place at least 10 days prior to the hearing unless the Chief of NAO orders a shorter period for providing notice or conducting the hearing. A party can request one change in the scheduled hearing date. In determining whether to grant the request, NAO will consider whether the requesting party has shown good cause for the change in date.
(4) At the hearing, all testimony will be under oath or affirmation administered by an appellate officer. In the event a party or a witness refuses to be sworn or refuses to answer a question, an appellate officer may state for the record any inference drawn from such refusal.
(5) An appellate officer may question the parties and the witnesses.
(6) An appellate officer will allow time for parties to present argument, question witnesses and other parties, and introduce evidence consistent with § 906.10.
(7) Parties may not compel discovery or the testimony of any witness.
(b)
Recording.
An appellate officer will record the hearing unless the appellant consents to proceed without a recording.
(c)
Format.
At the discretion of NAO, hearings may be conducted by telephone, in person, or by teleconference or similar electronic means.
§ 906.12
Closing the evidentiary portion of the NAO case record.
(a) At the conclusion of the NAO proceedings, an appellate officer will establish the date upon which the evidentiary portion of the NAO case record will close. Once an appellate officer closes the evidentiary portion of the NAO case record, with or without a hearing, no further submissions or argument will be accepted into the NAO case record.
(b) NAO in its discretion may reopen the evidentiary portion of the NAO case record or request additional information from the parties at any time prior to final agency action.
§ 906.13
Failure to appear.
If any party fails to appear at a pre-hearing conference or hearing after proper notice, an appellate officer may:
(a) Dismiss the case, or;
(b) Deem the failure of a party to appear after proper notice a waiver of any right to a hearing and consent to the making of a decision based on the NAO case record.
§ 906.14
Burden of proof.
On issues of fact, the appellant bears the burden of proving he or she should prevail by a preponderance of the evidence. Preponderance of the evidence is the relevant evidence in the NAO case
record, considered as a whole, that shows that a contested fact is more likely to be true than not true. Appellant has the obligation to obtain and present evidence to support the claims in his or her petition.
§ 906.15
Decisions.
(a) After an appellate officer closes the evidentiary portion of the NAO case record, NAO will issue a written decision that is based on the NAO case record. In making a decision, NAO shall determine whether the appellant has shown by a preponderance of the evidence that the initial administrative determination is inconsistent with the law and regulations governing the initial administrative determination. In making a decision, NAO shall give deference to the reasonable interpretation(s) of applicable ambiguous laws and regulations made by the office issuing the initial administrative determination.
(b) NAO shall serve a copy of its decision upon the appellant and the Regional Administrator. NAO will not provide the case record to the Regional Administrator when issuing its decision.
§ 906.16
Reconsideration.
(a) Any party may file a motion for reconsideration of an NAO decision issued under § 906.15. The request must be filed with NAO within 10 days after service of NAO's decision. A party shall not file more than one motion for reconsideration of an NAO decision.
(b) The motion must be in writing and contain a detailed statement of an error of fact or law material to the decision. The process of reconsideration is not a forum for reiterating the appellant's objections to the initial administrative determination.
(c) Arguments not raised by a party in his or her motion for reconsideration of a decision will be deemed waived.
(d) In response to a motion for reconsideration, NAO will either:
(1) Reject the motion because it does not meet the criteria of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section; or
(2) Issue a revised decision and serve a copy of its revised decision upon the appellant and the Regional Administrator.
(e) At any time prior to notifying the Regional Administrator pursuant to § 906.17(a), the NAO may issue a revised decision to make corrections and serve a copy of its revised decision upon the appellant and the Regional Administrator.
§ 906.17
Review by the Regional Administrator.
(a) If NAO does not receive a timely motion for reconsideration pursuant to § 906.16(a), receives a timely motion and rejects it pursuant to § 906.16(d)(1), or issues a revised decision pursuant to § 906.16(d)(2) or (e), NAO will notify the Regional Administrator and the appellant, and provide a copy of the case record for its decision or revised decision to the Regional Administrator.
(b) In reviewing NAO's findings of fact, the Regional Administrator may only consider the evidentiary record including arguments, claims, evidence of record and other documents of record that were before NAO when it rendered its decision or revised decision.
(c) The Regional Administrator may take the following action within 30 days of service of NAO's notification and receipt of the case record under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Issue a written decision adopting, remanding, reversing, or modifying NAO's decision or revised decision.
(2) Issue a stay for no more than 90 days to prevent NAO's decision or revised decision from taking effect.
(d) The Regional Administrator must provide a written decision explaining why an NAO decision or revised decision has been remanded, reversed, or modified. Consistent with § 906.18(b), the Regional Administrator may, but does not need to, issue a written decision to adopt an NAO decision or revised decision.
(e) The Regional Administrator will serve a copy of any written decision or stay on NAO and the appellant.
§ 906.18
Final decision of the Department.
(a) The Regional Administrator's written decision to adopt, reverse, or
modify an NAO decision or revised decision pursuant to § 906.17(c) is the final decision of the Department for the purposes of judicial review.
(b) If the Regional Administrator does not take action pursuant to § 906.17(c)(1), NAO's decision issued pursuant to § 906.15(a) or revised decision issued pursuant to § 906.16(d)(2) or (e) becomes the final decision of the Department for the purposes of judicial review 30 days after service of NAO's notification under § 906.17(a), or upon expiration of any stay issued by the Regional Administrator pursuant to § 906.17(c)(2).
(c) The office that issued the initial administrative determination shall implement the final decision of the Department within 30 days of service of the final decision issued pursuant to § 906.18(a), or within 30 days of the decision becoming final pursuant to § 906.18(b), to the extent practicable.
Pt. 908

# PART 908—MAINTAINING RECORDS AND SUBMITTING REPORTS ON WEATHER MODIFICATION ACTIVITIES
Sec.
908.1
Definitions.
908.2
Persons subject to reporting.
908.3
Activities subject to reporting.
908.4
Initial report.
908.5
Interim reports.
908.6
Final report.
908.7
Supplemental reports.
908.8
Maintenance of records.
908.9
Retention of records.
908.10
Penalties.
908.11
Maintenance of records of related activities.
908.12
Public disclosure of information.
908.13
Address of letters.
908.14
Business to be transacted in writing.
908.15
Times for taking action; expiration on Saturday, Sunday, or holiday.
908.16
Signature.
908.17
Suspension or waiver of rules.
908.18
Matters not specifically provided for in rules.
908.19
Publication of notice of proposed amendments.
908.20
Effective date.
908.21
Report form.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 92-305, 85 Stat. 735, December 18, 1971.

# Source:
41 FR 23394, June 10, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 908.1
Definitions.
As used in this part, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section.
(a)
Administrator.
The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(b)
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, any State or local government or any agency thereof, or any other organization, whether commercial or nonprofit, except where acting solely as an employee, agent, or independent contractor of the Federal government.
(c)
Weather modification activity.
Any activity performed with the intention of producing artificial changes in the composition, behavior, or dynamics of the atmosphere.
(d)
United States.
The several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or insular possession of the United States.
(e)
Persons whose activities relate to weather modification.
Persons engaged in weather modification activities or engaged in the distribution or sale of weather modification apparatus or materials known by them to be destined for use in weather modification activities.
(f)
Project.
A related series of weather modification activities having a common objective.
(g)
Target area.
The ground area within which the effects of the weather modification activity are expected to be found.
(h)
Control area.
A preselected, untreated ground area used for comparison with a target area.
(i)
Weather modification apparatus.
Any apparatus used with the intention of producing artificial changes in the composition, behavior, or dynamics of the atmosphere. For example: Seeding generators, propane devices, flares, rockets, artillery projectiles, jet engines, etc.
(j)
Sponsor.
The primary person for whom the weather modification activity is performed.
(k)
Operator.
The person who is primarily responsible for carrying out the weather modification activity.
[41 FR 23394, June 10, 1976, as amended at 46 FR 32233, June 22, 1981]
§ 908.2
Persons subject to reporting.
Any person engaged or intending to engage in any weather modification activity in the United States shall be subject to the reporting provisions of this part.
§ 908.3
Activities subject to reporting.
(a) The following, when conducted as weather modification activities, shall be subject to reporting:
(1) Seeding or dispersing of any substance into clouds or fog, to alter drop size distribution, produce ice crystals or coagulation of droplets, alter the development of hail or lightning, or influence in any way the natural development cycle of clouds or their environment;
(2) Using fires or heat sources to influence convective circulation or to evaporate fog;
(3) Modifying the solar radiation exchange of the earth or clouds, through the release of gases, dusts, liquids, or aerosols into the atmosphere;
(4) Modifying the characteristics of land or water surfaces by dusting or treating with powders, liquid sprays, dyes, or other materials;
(5) Releasing electrically charged or radioactive particles, or ions, into the atmosphere;
(6) Applying shock waves, sonic energy sources, or other explosive or acoustic sources to the atmosphere;
(7) Using aircraft propeller downwash, jet wash, or other sources of artificial wind generation; or
(8) Using lasers or other sources of electromagnetic radiation.
(b) In addition to the activities listed above, other similar activities falling within the definition of weather modification as set forth in § 908.1 are also subject to reporting.
(c) The requirement for reporting shall not apply to activities of a purely local nature that can reasonably be expected not to modify the weather outside of the area of operation. This exception is presently restricted to the use of lightning deflection or static discharge devices in aircraft, boats, or buildings, and to the use of small heat sources, fans, fogging devices, aircraft downwash, or sprays to prevent the occurrence of frost in tracts or fields planted with crops susceptible to frost or freeze damage. Also expected from the requirement for reporting are religious activities or other ceremonies, rites and rituals intended to modify the weather.
(d) All activities noted in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are subject to initial reporting. However, after the Administrator has received initial notification of a planned activity, he may waive some of the subsequent reporting requirements. This decision to waive certain reporting requirements will be based on the general acceptability, from a technical or scientific viewpoint, of the apparatus and techniques to be used.
(e) Other reporting exceptions may be made in the future by rule of the Administrator.
§ 908.4
Initial report.
(a) Any person intending to engage in any weather modification project or activity in the United States shall provide a report of his intention, to be received by the Administrator at least 10 days before the commencement of such project or activity. This report shall contain at least the following:
(1) The designation, if any, used by the operator for the project or activity;
(2) The following dates for weather modification activities:
(i) The date the first actual weather modification activity is to be undertaken;
(ii) The date on which the final modification activity is expected to occur;
(3) The following information on persons involved with the project or activity:
(i) The name, affiliation, and address of the sponsor;
(ii) The name, affiliation, and address of the operator;
(4) The purpose of the project or activity;
(5) A map showing the approximate size and location of the target and control areas, and the location of each item of ground-based weather modification apparatus, precipitation measuring device, and, for airborne operations, the airport;
(6) A description of the weather modification apparatus, modification agents, and the techniques to be employed;
(7) The name and address of the responsible individual from whom log books or other records of the project or activity may be obtained;
(8) Answers to the following questions on project safeguards:
(i) Has an Environmental Impact Statement, Federal or State, been filed: Yes__ No __. If Yes, please furnish a copy as applicable.
(ii) Have provisions been made to acquire the latest forecasts, advisories, warnings, etc. of the National Weather Service, Forest Service, or others when issued prior to and during operations? Yes __ No __. If Yes, please specify on a separate sheet.
(iii) Have any safety procedures (operational contraints, provisions for suspension of operations, monitoring methods, etc.) and any environmental guidelines (related to the possible effects of the operations) been included in the operational plans? Yes __ No __. If Yes, please furnish copies or a description of the specific procedures and guidelines; and
(9) Optional remarks, to include any additional items which the person deems significant or of interest and such other information as the Administrator may request the person to submit.
(b) If circumstances prevent the signing of a contract or agreement to perform, or receipt of an authorization to proceed with, a weather modification activity at a date early enough to comply with paragraph (a) of this section, the initial report shall be provided so as to be received by the Administrator within 10 days of the date of signing of the contract or agreement, or receipt of authorization to proceed. In such cases, the report shall be accompanied by an explanation as to why it was not submitted at least 10 days prior to the commencement of the activity.
(c) In the event that circumstances beyond the control of the person liable to report under these regulations prevent the submission of the initial report in a timely manner as described above, the report shall be forwarded as early as possible, accompanied by an explanation as to why a timely report has not been provided. If such explanation is deemed adequate, the Administrator will consider the report as timely filed.
§ 908.5
Interim reports.
(a) Any person engaged in a weather modification project or activity in the United States on January 1 in any year shall submit to the Administrator, not later than 45 days thereafter, an interim report setting forth as of such date the information required below with respect to any such continuing project or activity not previously furnished to the Administrator in a prior interim report; provided that the January 1 date shall not apply if other arrangements have previously been made with the written approval of the Administrator.
(b) The interim report shall include the file number assigned by the Administrator and shall provide a summary of the project or activity containing at least the following information for each month:
(1) Number of days on which actual modification activities took place;
(2) Number of days on which weather modification activities were conducted, segregated by each of the major purposes of the activities;
(3) Total number of hours of operation of each type of weather modification apparatus (
i.e.
, net hours of agent release);
(4) Total amount of agent used. If more than one agent was used, each should be totaled separately (e.g., carbon dioxide, sodium chloride, urea, silver iodide).
(c) The totals for the items in paragraph (b) of this section shall be provided for the period covered by the interim report.
[41 FR 23394, June 10, 1976, as amended at 46 FR 32233, June 22, 1981]
§ 908.6
Final report.
Upon completion of a weather modification project or activity the person who performed the same shall submit a report to the Administrator not later than 45 days after completion of the project or activity. The report shall include the file number assigned by the Administrator and the following items:
(a) Information required for the interim reports (to the extent not previously reported).
(b) The total number of days on which actual modification activities took place during the project or activity.
(c) The total number of days during the project or activity on which weather modification activities were conducted, segregated by each of the major purposes of the activities.
(d) The total number of hours of operation of each type of weather modification apparatus during the project or activity (
i.e.
, net hours of agent release).
(e) The total amount of modification agent(s) dispensed during the project or activity. If more than one agent was used, each should be totaled separately (e.g., carbon dioxide, sodium chloride, urea, silver iodide).
(f) The date on which the final weather modification activity occurred.
[41 FR 23394, June 10, 1976, as amended at 46 FR 32233, June 22, 1981]
§ 908.7
Supplemental reports.
Notwithstanding other regulations, a supplemental report in letter form referring to the appropriate NOAA file number, if assigned, must be made to the Administrator immediately if any report of weather modification activities submitted under § 908.4, § 908.5, or § 908.6 is found to contain any material inaccuracies, misstatements, and omissions. A supplemental report must also be made if there are changes in plans for the project or activity.
§ 908.8
Maintenance of records.
(a) Any person engaging in a weather modification activity in the United States shall maintain a record of such activity. This record shall contain at least the following, when applicable:
(1) A chronological record of activities carried on, preferably in the form of a daily log, which shall include the NOAA file number assigned to the project, the designation of each unit of weather modification apparatus, and at least the following information for each unit:
(i) Date of the weather modification activity.
(ii) Position of each aircraft or location of each item of weather modification apparatus during each modification mission. Maps may be used.
(iii) Time when weather modification activity began and ended.
(iv) Total duration of operation of each unit of weather modification apparatus (
i.e.
, net hours of agent release).
(v) Type of each modification agent used.
(vi) Rate of dispersal of each agent during the period of actual operation of weather modification apparatus.
(vii) Total amount of agent used. If more than one agent was used, report total for each type separately.
(viii) Number of days on which weather modification activities were conducted, segregated by each of the major purposes of the activities.
(2) The monthly totals of hours of modification activity, the amount of modification agent used, and the number of days on which weather modification activities were conducted, segregated by each of the major purposes of the activities, shall be shown on the daily log sheet for the last day of each month.
(b) When the activity involves ground-based weather modification apparatus, records of the following shall also be maintained, when applicable, but need not be made part of the daily log:
(1) The location of each item of weather modification apparatus in use and its identification such as type and manufacturer's model number. If the apparatus is not commercially available, a brief description of the apparatus and the method of operation should be recorded.
(2) The name and address of the person responsible for operating each weather modification apparatus.
(3) The altitude and type of weather phenomenon subjected to weather modification activity during each operational period (e.g., cumulus clouds between 10,000 and 30,000 feet m.s.l.; ground fog).
(c) When the activity involves airborne weather modification apparatus, records of the following shall also be maintained, when applicable, but need not be made a part of the daily log: For each airborne weather modification apparatus run: Altitude, air speed; release points of modification agents,
method of modification and characteristics of flares, rockets, or other delivery systems employed; temperature at release altitude; and, for aircraft: The type of aircraft, its identification number, the airport or airports used, and the names and addresses of crew members and the person responsible for operating the weather modification apparatus; and the altitude and type of weather phenomenon subjected to weather modification activity during each operational period (e.g., cumulus clouds between 10,000 and 30,000 feet m.s.l.; ground fog).
(d) The following records shall also be maintained, whenever applicable, but need not be made a part of the daily log. Only data specifically collected for the reported activity need be retained; data available from other sources need not be included.
(1) Any descriptions that were recorded of meteorological condiitons in target and control areas during the periods of operation; for example: Percent of cloud cover, temperature, humidity, the presence of lightning, hail, funnel clouds, heavy rain or snow, and unusual radar patterns.
(2) All measurements made of precipitation in target and control areas.
(3) Any unusual results.
§ 908.9
Retention of records.
Records required under § 908.8 shall be retained and available for inspection by the Administrator or his designated representatives for 3 years after completion of the activity to which they relate. Such records shall be required to be produced for inspection only at the place where normally kept. The Administrator shall have the right to make copies of such records, if he or she deems necessary.
[52 FR 4896, Feb. 18, 1987]
§ 908.10
Penalties.
Knowing and willful violation of any rule adopted under the authority of section 2 of Public Law 92-205 shall subject the person violating such rule to a fine of not more than $10,000, upon conviction thereof.
§ 908.11
Maintenance of records of related activities.
(a) Persons whose activities relate to weather modification activities, other than persons engaged in weather modification activities, shall maintain records concerning the identities of purchasers or users of weather modification apparatus or materials, the quantities or numbers of items purchased, and the times of such purchases. Such information shall be retained for at least 3 years.
(b) In addition, persons whose activities relate to weather modification shall be required, under the authority of section 4 of Public Law 92-205, to provide the Administrator, on his request, with information he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this act.
[41 FR 23394, June 10, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 4896, Feb. 18, 1987]
§ 908.12
Public disclosure of information.
(a) Any records or other information obtained by the Administrator under these rules or otherwise under the authority of Public Law 92-205 shall be made publicly available to the fullest practicable extent. Such records or information may be inspected on written request to the Administrator. However, the Administrator will not disclose any information referred to in section 1905 of title 18, United States Code, and that is otherwise unavailable to the public, except that such information shall be disclosed:
(1) To other Federal government departments, agencies, and officials for official use upon request;
(2) In any judicial proceeding under a court order formulated to preserve the confidentiality of such information without impairing the proceeding; and
(3) To the public, if necessary to protect their health and safety.
(b) Certified copies of such reports and information, to the extent publicly disclosable, may be obtained from the Administrator at cost in accordance with the Department of Commerce implementation of the Freedom of Information Act.
(c) Persons reporting on weather modification projects or related activities shall specifically identify all information that they consider not to be subject to public disclosure under the terms of Public Law 92-205 and provide reasons in support thereof. A determination as to whether or not reported information is subject to public dissemination shall be made by the Administrator.
(d) When consideration of a weather modification activity report and related information indicates that a proposed project may significantly depart from the practices or procedures generally employed in similar circumstances to avoid danger to persons, property, or the environment, or indicates that success of Federal research projects may be adversely affected if the proposed project is carried out as described, the Administrator will notify the operator(s) and State officials of such possibility and make recommendations where appropriate. The purpose of such notification shall be to inform those notified of existing practices and procedures or Federal research projects known to NOAA. Notification or recommendation, or failure to notify or recommend, shall not be construed as approval or disapproval of a proposed project or as an indication that, if carried out as proposed or recommended it may, in any way, protect or endanger persons, property, or the environment or affect the success of any Federal research project. Any advisory notification issued by the Administrator shall be available to the public and be included in the pertinent activity report file.
§ 908.13
Address of letters.
Letters and other communications intended for the Administrator, in connection with weather modification reporting or activities, shall be addressed to: The Administrator, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Environmental Modification Office, Rockville, Md. 20852.
§ 908.14
Business to be transacted in writing.
All business transacted with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration with regard to reports of weather modification activities should be transacted in writing. Actions of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will be based exclusively on the written record.
§ 908.15
Times for taking action; expiration on Saturday, Sunday, or holiday.
Whenever periods of time are specified in these rules in days, calendar days are intended. When the day, or the last day, fixed under these rules for taking any action falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or on a Federal holiday, the action may be taken on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.
§ 908.16
Signature.
All reports filed with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration must be dated and signed by or on behalf of the person conducting or intending to conduct the weather modification activities referred to therein by such person, individually or, in the case of a person other than an individual, by a partner, officer, or other person having corresponding functions and authority. For this purpose “officer” means a president, vice president, treasurer, secretary, or comptroller. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such reports may also be signed by the duly authorized agent or attorney of the person whose activities are being reported. Proof of such authorization shall be furnished to the Administrator when filing a report, unless previously furnished.
§ 908.17
Suspension or waiver of rules.
In an extraordinary situation, any requirement of these rules may be suspended or waived by the Administrator on request of the interested party, to the extent such waiver is consistent with the provisions of Public Law 92-205 and subject to such other requirements as may be imposed.
§ 908.18
Matters not specifically provided for in rules.
All matters not specifically provided for or situations not specifically addressed in these rules will be decided in accordance with the merits of each case by or under the authority of the
Administrator, and such decision will be communicated in writing to all parties involved in the case.
§ 908.19
Publication of notice of proposed amendments.
Whenever required by law, and in other cases whenever practicable, notice of proposed amendments to these rules will be published in the
Federal Register.
If not published with the notice, copies of the text of proposed amendments will be furnished to any person requesting the same. All comments, suggestions, and briefs received within the time specified in the notice will be considered before adoption of the proposed amendments, which may be modified in the light thereof. Informal hearings may be held at the discretion of the Administrator.
§ 908.20
Effective date.
These rules are effective on June 10, 1976.
§ 908.21
Report form.
Public Law 92-205 and these rules should be studied carefully prior to reporting. Reports required by these rules shall be submitted on forms obtainable on request from the Administrator, or on an equivalent format.
1
In special situations, such alterations to the forms as the circumstances thereto may render necessary may be made, provided they do not depart from the requirements of these rules or of Public Law 92-205.
1
Filed as part of the original document.
Pt. 909

# PART 909—MARINE DEBRIS

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 1951-1958 (2006).
§ 909.1
Definition of marine debris for the purposes of the Marine Debris Research, Prevention, and Reduction Act.
(a)
Marine debris.
For the purposes of the Marine Debris Research, Prevention, and Reduction Act (33 U.S.C. 1951-1958 (2006)) only, marine debris is defined as any persistent solid material that is manufactured or processed and directly or indirectly, intentionally or unintentionally, disposed of or abandoned into the marine environment or the Great Lakes.
(b) NOAA and the Coast Guard have jointly promulgated the definition of marine debris in this part. Coast Guard's regulation may be found in 33 CFR 151.3000.
[74 FR 45560, Sept. 3, 2009]
Pt. 911

# PART 911—POLICIES AND PROCEDURES CONCERNING USE OF THE NOAA SPACE-BASED DATA COLLECTION SYSTEMS
Sec.
911.1
Purpose.
911.2
Scope.
911.3
Definitions.
911.4
Use of the NOAA Data Collection Systems.
911.5
NOAA Data Collection Systems Use Agreements.
911.6
Treatment of data.
911.7
Continuation of the NOAA Data Collection Systems.
911.8
Technical requirements.
Appendix A to Part 911—Argos DCS Use Policy Diagram
Appendix B to Part 911—GOES DCS Use Policy Diagram

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 313, 49 U.S.C. 44720; 15 U.S.C. 1525; 7 U.S.C. 450b; 5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
63 FR 24922, May 6, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 911.1
Purpose.
These regulations set forth the procedural, informational and technical requirements for use of the NOAA Data Collection Systems (DCS). In addition, they establish the criteria NOAA will employ when making determinations as to whether to authorize the use of its space-based DCS. The regulations are intended to facilitate the collection of environmental data as well as other such data which the Government is interested in collecting. In those instances where space-based commercial systems do not meet users' requirements, the intent is to not disadvantage the development of the commercial space-based services in this sector. Obtaining a system use agreement to operate data collection platforms pursuant to these regulations does not affect related licensing requirements of other Federal agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission.
§ 911.2
Scope.
(a) These regulations apply to any person subject to the jurisdiction or control of the United States who operates or proposes to operate data collection platforms to be used with the NOAA DCS either directly or through an affiliate or subsidiary. For the purposes of these regulations a person is subject to the jurisdiction or control of the United States if such person is:
(1) An individual who is a U.S. citizen; or
(2) A corporation, partnership, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of any state, territory, or possession of the United States.
(b) These regulations apply to all existing Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) and Argos DCS users as well as all future applications for NOAA DCS use.
§ 911.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Approving authority
means NOAA for the GOES DCS; and it means the Argos Participating Agencies, via the Argos Operations Committee, for the Argos DCS.
(b)
Argos DCS
means the system which collects data from fixed and moving platforms and provides platform location data. This system consists of platforms, the Argos French instrument on the Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellites (POES) and other international satellites; a ground processing system; and telemetry ground stations.
(c)
Argos participating agencies
means those agencies of the United States and other countries that participate in the management of the Argos DCS.
(d)
Assistant Administrator
means the Assistant Administrator for Satellite and Information Services, NOAA, or his/her designee.
(e)
Director
means the Director of the Office of Satellite Data Processing and Distribution for the National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service of NOAA.
(f)
Environmental data
means environmental measurement data for the purpose of using the GOES DCS; and it means environmental measurement and environmental protection data for the purpose of using the Argos DCS.
(g)
Environmental measurement data
means data that relate to the characteristics of the Earth and its natural phenomena by helping to better understand, evaluate, or monitor its natural resources.
(h)
Environmental protection data
means data that relate to the characteristics of the Earth and its environment (including its ecosystems and the species which inhabit them) by helping to protect against any unreasonable adverse effects thereto.
(i)
Episodic use
means the use of the system for short events where there is a significant possibility of loss of life, such as for Arctic expeditions or scientific campaigns into remote areas.
(j)
Government interest
means that the use is determined in advance to be of interest to one or more governmental entities of the United States, France or, once they have become an Argos Participating Agency, Japan or a European Organization for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) member state; or also, in the case of the GOES DCS, a state or local government.
(k)
Government user
means agencies of international governmental organizations, national government or any subdivision thereof, or any of those agencies' contractors or grantees, so long as the contractor is using the data collected by the NOAA DCS to fulfill its contractual obligations to the government agency or in the case of a grantee that these data are being used in accordance with the statement of work for the award.
(l)
NOAA DCS
means the GOES and Argos space-based DCS.
(m)
Non-profit user
means a not-for-profit academic, research, or other non-governmental organization, which is using these data, for education and/or scientific, non-commercial purposes.
(n)
Operational use
means the use of data in a situation where the utility of the data are significantly reduced if not collected or delivered in a specific time window. This includes situations where extensive preparation work is in place and a delay in acquisition of data would jeopardize the project.
(o)
Platform compatibility
means the compatibility of the platform with the space segment of the system, and includes elements such as message length and composition, signal strength, and transmission protocol (e.g., continuous versus event drive).
(p)
Sensitive use
means the use of the NOAA DCS where the users' requirements dictate the use of a governmental system such as National security, homeland security, law enforcement and humanitarian operations.
(q)
Testing use
means the use of the NOAA DCS by manufacturers of platforms for use in conjunction with the NOAA DCS, for the limited purpose of testing and certifying the compatibility of new platforms with the technical requirements of the NOAA DCS.
(r)
User
means the entity and/or organization that owns or operates user platforms for the purpose of collecting and transmitting data through the NOAA DCS, or the organization requiring the collection of the data.
(s)
User platform
means device designed in accordance with the specifications delineated and approved by the Approving Authority used for the in-situ collection and subsequent transmission of data via the NOAA DCS. Those devices which are used in conjunction with the GOES DCS are referred to as data collection platforms (DCP) and those which are used in conjunction with the Argos DCS are referred to as Platform Transmitter Terminals (PTT). For purposes of these regulations, the terms “user platform,” “DCP”, and “PTT” are interchangeable.
(t)
User requirement
means the requirement expressed and explained in the System Use Agreement.
[63 FR 24922, May 6, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 45161, Aug. 1, 2003]
§ 911.4
Use of the NOAA Data Collection Systems.
(a) Use of the NOAA DCS will only be authorized in accordance with the conditions and requirements set forth in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(b)(1) Use of the NOAA DCS will only be authorized where it is determined that there are no commercial space-based services available that meet the user's requirements.
(2) A determination under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be based on such factors as satellite coverage, accuracy, data throughput, platform power consumption, size and weight, service continuity and reliability, platform compatibility, system access mode, and, in the case of government agencies, cost-effectiveness.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section, NOAA DCS shall only be used for the collection of environmental data by governmental and/or non-profit users.
(2) Non-governmental, environmental use of the NOAA DCS is only authorized where there is a Government interest in the collection and/or receipt of the data.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, non-environmental use of the NOAA DCS is only authorized for government use and non-profit users where there is a government interest. The NOAA DCS will continue to be predominantly used for environmental applications. Non-environmental use of the system shall be limited to sensitive use, and to episodic use as defined below in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(4) Episodic use of the NOAA DCS may also be authorized in specific instances where there is a significant possibility for loss of life. Such use shall be closely monitored.
(5) Testing use of the NOAA DCS will only be authorized for manufacturers of NOAA DCS platforms, that require access to the system in order to test and certify prototype and production models.
(d) Because of capacity limitations on the GOES DCS, system applicants will be admitted to use the GOES system in accordance with the following priority:
(1) NOAA programs or users whose data are required for implementation of NOAA programs, as determined by the Assistant Administrator, will be accorded first priority.
(2) Users whose data are desired to support NOAA programs will be accorded second priority.
(3) Users whose data and/or use of the GOES DCS will further a program of an agency or department of the U.S. Government, other than NOAA, will be accorded third priority.
(4) Users whose data are required by a state or local Government of the United States will be accorded fourth priority.
(5) Testing users of the system will be accorded fifth priority.
(6) No other usage will be authorized for the GOES DCS.
(e) In the event that Argos DCS capacity limitations require that priority determinations be made, priority will be given to those platforms that provide environmental data of broad international interest, especially of an operational nature, and to those requiring the unique capabilities of the Argos DCS, such as platform location or polar coverage.
[63 FR 24922, May 6, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 45161, Aug. 1, 2003]
§ 911.5
NOAA Data Collection Systems Use Agreements.
(a)(1) In order to use a NOAA DCS, each user must have an agreement with the approving authority for that system.
(2) Persons interested in entering into a system use agreement should contact the Director.
(b) These agreements will address, but may not be limited to, the following matters:
(1) The period of time the agreement is valid and procedures for its termination,
(2) The authorized use(s), and its priorities for use,
(3) The extent of the availability of commercial space-based services which meet the user's requirements and the reasons for necessitating the use of the Government system,
(4) Any applicable government interest in the data,
(5) Required equipment standards,
(6) Standards of operation,
(7) Conformance with applicable ITU and FCC agreements and regulations,
(8) Reporting time and frequencies,
(9) Data formats,
(10) Data delivery systems and schedules, and
(11) User-borne costs.
(c) The Director shall evaluate user requests for System Use Agreements and renewals and conclude agreements for use of the NOAA DCS.
(d)(1) Agreements for the collection, via the Argos DCS, of environmental data by government agencies or non-profit institutions shall be valid for 3 years from the date of initial in-situ deployment of the platforms, and may be renewed for additional 3-year periods.
(2) Agreements for the collection of environmental data, via the Argos DCS, by non-government users shall be valid for 1 year from the date of initial in-situ deployment of the platforms, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods, but only for so long as there exists a governmental interest in the receipt of these data.
(3) Agreements for the collection of non-environmental data, via the Argos DCS, by government agencies, or non-profit institutions where there is a government interest, shall be valid for 1 year from the date of initial in-situ deployment of the platforms, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods.
(4) Agreements for the episodic collection of non-environmental data, via the Argos DCS under § 911.4(c)(4), shall be of short, finite duration not to exceed 1 year without exception, and usually shall not exceed 6 months. These agreements shall be closely monitored and shall not be renewed.
(5) Agreements for the testing use of the Argos DCS by equipment manufacturers shall be valid for 1 year from the date of initial testing, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods.
(e)(1) Agreements for the collection of environmental data, by the GOES DCS, shall be valid for 5 years from the date of initial in-situ deployment, and may be renewed for additional 5-year periods.
(2) Agreements for the testing use of the GOES DCS, by equipment manufacturers, shall be valid for 1 year from the date of initial testing, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods.
(3) Agreements for the collection of non-environmental data, via the GOES DCS, by government agencies, or non-profit institutions where there is a government interest, shall be valid for 1
year from the date of initial
in-situ
deployment of the platforms, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods.
(4) Agreements for the episodic collection of non-environmental data, via the GOES DCS under § 911.4(c)(4), shall be of short, finite duration not to exceed 1 year without exception, and usually shall not exceed 6 months. These agreements shall be closely monitored and shall not be renewed.
[63 FR 24922, May 6, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 45161, Aug. 1, 2003]
§ 911.6
Treatment of data.
(a) All NOAA DCS users must agree to permit NOAA and other agencies of the U.S. Government the full, open, timely, and appropriate use as determined by NOAA, of all environmental data collected from their platforms; this may include the international distribution of environmental data under the auspices of the World Meteorological Organization.
(b) Raw data from the NOAA space segment is openly transmitted and accessible.
(c) Accessibility of the NOAA DCS processed data from the ground segment is handled in accordance with the users specifications and system design limitations, subject to the provisions stated in paragraph (a) of this section.
[68 FR 45161, Aug. 1, 2003]
§ 911.7
Continuation of the NOAA Data Collection Systems.
(a) NOAA expects to continue to operate DCS on its geostationary and polar-orbiting satellites, subject to the availability of future appropriations. However, viable commercial space-based alternatives may eventually obviate the need for NOAA to operate its own space-based DCS.
(b) If use of the system in support of NOAA programs increases, it eventually may be necessary to the further restrict system usage by other users. If such restrictions on use become necessary, or in the event that NOAA discontinues operation of GOES and/or POES, NOAA will provide, to the maximum extent practicable, advance notice and an orderly transition.
(c) NOAA will not be responsible for any losses resulting from the nonavailability of the NOAA DCS.
§ 911.8
Technical requirements.
(a) All platform operators of the NOAA DCS must use a data collection platform radio set whose technical and design characteristics are certified to conform to applicable specifications and regulations.
(b) All platform operators are responsible for all costs associated with the procurement and operation of the platforms, and for the acquisition of data from those platforms, either directly from the satellite or from the applicable data processing center.
Pt. 911, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 911—Argos DCS Use Policy Diagram
ER01AU03.015
[68 FR 45161, Aug. 1, 2003]
Pt. 911, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 911—GOES DCS Use Policy Diagram
ER01AU03.016
[68 FR 45162, Aug. 1, 2003]
Pt. 917

# PART 917—NATIONAL SEA GRANT PROGRAM FUNDING REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
917.1
Basic provisions.
917.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Sea Grant Matched Funding Program
917.10
General.
917.11
Guidelines for Sea Grant Fellowships.

# Subpart C—National Projects
917.20
General.
917.21
National needs and problems.
917.22
National Projects funding.

# Subpart D—International Cooperation Assistance
917.30
General.

# Subpart E—General Considerations Pertaining to Sea Grant Funding
917.40
General.
917.41
Application guidance for Sea Grant funding.
917.42
Categories of support available for the conducting of Sea Grant activities.
917.43
Terms and conditions of Sea Grant funding.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 94-461, 90 Stat. 1961 (33 U.S.C. 1121
et seq.
).

# Source:
43 FR 15307, Apr. 11, 1978, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 917.1
Basic provisions.
(a) This section sets forth the basic purposes for which Sea Grant funding may be made pursuant to the following sections of the Act: 33 U.S.C. 1124, 1127, 1125 and 1124a. These sections provide for the funding of programs and projects in fields related to ocean and coastal resources that involve marine research, marine education and training, and marine advisory services. However, there is a significant difference in focus among these sections since section 1124(a) is concerned chiefly with regional and state needs relative to ocean and coastal resources (including the funding of Sea Grant Fellowships under section 1127) while section 1125 is concerned with national needs and problems relative to ocean and coastal resources, and section 1124a is concerned with programs of international cooperation assistance with respect to those resources.
(b)
Comment:
Statutory citation 33 U.S.C. 1124(a):
In General. The Secretary may make grants and enter into contracts under this subsection to assist any Sea Grant program or project if the Secretary finds that such program or project will—
(1) Implement the objective set forth in Section 202(b); and
(2) Be responsive to the needs or problems of individual states or regions.
The total amount paid pursuant to any such grant or contract may equal 66
2/3
percent, or any lesser percent, of the total cost of the Sea Grant program or project involved.
(c)
Comment:
Statutory citation 33 U.S.C. 1127(a):
In General. The Secretary may enter into contracts and make grants under this section to—
(1) Enhance the research and development capability of developing foreign nations with respect to ocean and coastal resources.
(2) Promote the international exchange of information and data with respect to the assessment, development, utilization, and conservation of such resources.
§ 917.2
Definitions.
(a) The term
Act
means the Sea Grant Program Improvement Act of 1976, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1121
et seq.
).
(b) The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(c) The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(d) The term
Office of Sea Grant
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Office of Sea Grant, which administers the National Sea Grant Program provided for in the Act.
(e) The term
objective of the Act
means the objective set forth at 33 U.S.C. 1121(b) and is “is to increase the understanding, assessment, development, utilization, and conservation of the Nation's ocean and coastal resources by providing assistance to promote a strong educational base, responsive research and training activities, and broad and prompt dissemination of knowledge and techniques.”
(f) The term
ocean and coastal resource(s)
is as defined at 33 U.S.C. 1122(7) and means:
any resource (whether living, nonliving, manmade, tangible, intangible, actual, or potential) which is located in, derived from, or traceable to, the marine environment.
Such term includes the habitat of any such living resource, the coastal space, the ecosystems, the nutrient rich areas, and the other components of the marine environment which contribute to or provide (or which are capable of contributing to or providing) recreational, scenic, esthetic, biological, habitational, commercial, economic, or conservation values. Living resources include natural and cultured plant life, fish, shellfish, marine mammals, and wildlife. Nonliving resources include energy sources, minerals, and chemical substances.
(g) The term
marine environment
used in the definition for “ocean and coastal resources” in § 917.2(e) and used elsewhere in these regulations is as defined at 33 U.S.C. 1122(6) and means:
the coastal zone, as defined in Section 304(1) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453(1)); the seabed, subsoil, and waters of the territorial sea of the United States; the waters of any zone over which the United States asserts exclusive fishery management authority; the waters of the high seas; and the seabed and subsoil of and beyond the outer Continental Shelf.
(h) The term
person
is as defined at 33 U.S.C. 1122(9) and means: “any individual; any public or private corporation, partnership, or other association or entity (including any Sea Grant College, Sea Grant Regional Consortium, education, institute, or laboratory); or any state, political subdivision of a state, or agency or officer thereof.”
(i) The term
Sea Grant College
is as defined at 33 U.S.C. 1122(10) and means: “any public or private institution of higher education which is designated as such by the Secretary . . .” pursuant to regulations promulgated at 15 CFR part 918.
(j) The term
Sea Grant Program
is as defined at 33 U.S.C. 1122(11) and means: “any program which” (1) is administered by a Sea Grant College, Sea Grant Regional Consortium, institution of higher education, institute, laboratory, or state or local agency; and (2) includes two or more projects involving one or more of the following activities in fields related to ocean and coastal resources:
(i) Research,
(ii) Education,
(iii) Training, or
(iv) Advisory services.
(k) The term
Sea Grant Program Directors
means the local Directors of the Sea Grant coherent area programs, insititutional programs, Sea Grant Colleges, and Sea Grant Regional Consortia.
(l) The term
Sea Grant Regional Consortium
is as defined at 33 U.S.C. 1122(12) and means: “any association or alliance which is designated as such by the Secretary . . .” pursuant to regulations promulgated at 15 CFR part 918.
(m) The term
state
is as defined at 33 U.S.C. 1122 (14) and means: “any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.”
(n) The term
developing foreign nations
includes any foreign nation other than a foreign nation that is ineligible for designation under section 502(b) of the Trade Act of 1974, (19 U.S.C. 2462(b)) as a beneficiary developing country under Title of that Act.

# Subpart B—Sea Grant Matched Funding Program
§ 917.10
General.
(a) 33 U.S.C. 1124(a) establishes a program for the funding of Sea Grant Programs and projects dealing with marine research, marine education and training, and/or marine advisory services, that are designed to achieve the objective of the Act and that generally respond to the needs of individual states or regions. Included as a part of this program is the Sea Grant Fellowship Program, established by 33 U.S.C. 1127. Any person may apply to the Office of Sea Grant for Sea Grant Matched Funding Program Monies, except for Sea Grant Fellowship funding. Sea Grant Fellowship funding may be granted only to Sea Grant Colleges, Sea Grant Regional Consortia, institutions of higher education, and professional associations and institutions.
(b) Federal Sea Grant funding for the section 1124(a) Matched Funding Program cannot exceed 66
2/3
percent of the total cost of the project involved.
§ 917.11
Guidelines for Sea Grant Fellowships.
(a) Sea Grant Fellowships are designed to provide educational and training assistance to qualified individuals at the undergraduate and graduate levels of education in fields related to ocean and coastal resources. The objective of the program is to increase the national supply of individuals educated and trained in the assessment, development, utilization, and conservation of ocean and coastal resources. The purpose of this section is to provide guidelines regarding the content of applications for Sea Grant Fellowship funding.
(b) Funding will be made to eligible entities (see § 917.10 of this part) that are selected to award and administer Sea Grant Fellowships. Fellowships will not be awarded directly to students by the Office of Sea Grant. The entity receiving Fellowship funding will select the students to be awarded the Fellowships and will handle the administration of the Fellowships.
(c) Proposals for Fellowship funding will be expected to address (1) the nature and focus of the proposed Fellowship Program, (2) the utilization of institutional or other appropriate resources in the education and training of Sea Grant Fellows, (3) the method of advertising availability of the Fellowships, (4) the method of selection of recipients, and (5) the terms of tenure and method of determining continuity of tenure.
(d) Innovation and uniqueness will be significant factors in the determination of which proposals will be funded. Another factor considered will be the potential of the proposed program to stimulate interest in marine related careers among those individuals; for example, minorities, women, and the handicapped whose previous background or training might not have generated such an interest.
(e) The total amount that may be provided for grants under the Sea Grant Fellowship Program during any fiscal year cannot exceed an amount equal to five percent of the total funds appropriated for the Matched Funding Program for that year. Fellowship programs are subject to the requirement of a minimum of 33
1/3
percent matching funds from non-Federal sources to which all Matched Funding Program projects are subject. Indirect costs are not allowable for either the Fellowships or for any costs associated with the Fellowships.
Considering the variations in the cost-of-living and the differences in tuition, fees, etc., between one college or university and another, the amount of money requested and awarded per Fellowship may vary.

# Subpart C—National Projects
§ 917.20
General.
(a) 33 U.S.C. 1125 requires the Secretary to identify specific national needs and problems relative to ocean and coastal resources. This responsibility has been delegated to the Administrator. The designation is intended to focus public attention on needs and problems of the marine environment that are considered to be of particular national importance at a given point in time.
(b) 33 U.S.C. 1125 provides for the funding of national projects in marine research, marine education and training, and marine advisory services that are designed to deal with the national needs and problems concerning ocean and coastal resources identified by the Administrator.
(c) The Administrator will identify the national needs and problems apart from considerations of Office of Sea Grant funding for “National Projects” responsive to national needs and problems that are identified.
§ 917.21
National needs and problems.
(a) The Administrator will, periodically, publish in the
Federal Register
the identified national needs and problems with respect to ocean and coastal resources at a given point in time.
(b) Suggestions from the general public as to the identity of national needs and problems may be submitted to the Office of Sea Grant at any time. These suggestions will be reviewed by the Office of Sea Grant and the Sea Grant Review Panel, and those receiving a
positive critique will be forwarded to the Administrator. In addition, suggestions concerning the identification of national needs and problems will be requested from the Sea Grant Program Directors.
(c) The Administrator has identified the following as currently being national needs and problems with respect to ocean and coastal resources:global and regional climate and primary productivity.
(1) Improve the prediction of extreme natural events and their effects on ocean coastal and continental shelf locations as well as analogous regions of the Great Lakes.
(2) Improve the predictability of global sea-level change and determine the impact of this change on coastal areas.
(3) Define the processes that determine ocean variability on the time scale of a few weeks to a few years, and the relationship to fluctuations in global and regional climate, primary productivity, and fisheries production.
(4) Improve understanding of the flow fields and mixing processes on the continental shelves of the United States.
(5) Develop an increased understanding of the arctic and antarctic environment and a capability to predict the special hazards posed to transportation and resource development.
(6) Develop and increased capability to characterize the engineering properties of ocean botton sediments.
(7) Reduce the recurring economic loss due to corrosion of structures, vessels, and other devices in the marine environment.
(8) Gain a fundamental understanding of the processes by which biological fouling and associated corrosion are initiated upon material surfaces exposed to seawater.
(9) Investigate methods to improve man's underwater capability to conduct undersea research and perform useful work.
(10) Investigate the wider application of remotely operated and artificial intelligence techniques for vehicles for undersea activities.
(11) Expand/improve remote sensing technologies for use on the ocean and Great Lakes.
(12) Advance knowledge of acoustics in the ocean and ocean bottom in order to exploit the burgeoning acoustics technologies.
(13) Develop techniques for in-situ monitoring of biological, chemical, and physical processes in the Great Lakes, oceans, and their connecting waterways which are cost effective and provide data in real time.
(14) Improve the position of the U.S. seafood industry in world seafood markets.
(15) Design more efficient mechanisms to allocate U.S. fish resources to achieve optimum yield and minimize industry dislocations.
(16) Gain a fundamental understanding of the biological productivity of estuarine and coastal waters.
(17) Conduct research leading to the restoration and/or enhancement of heavily exploited fishery stocks.
(18) Improve the capability for stock assessment, predicting yield, age-class strength, and long-term population status of important fisheries.
(19) Conduct research to increase the economic potential of low-value, high-volume fish products.
(20) Develop productive and profitable aquaculture industries in the United States and technology that can be exported to less developed nations of the world with different climate, cultural, and economic constraints.
(21) Explore marine biochemicals as source of chemical feedstocks, enzymes, pharmacological substance, and other bioactive agents such as pesticides.
(22) Apply modern biotechnology to exploiting marine plants, animals, and microorganisms for good and services.
(23) Develop rapid, efficient, and specific methods for assaying the potential of marine organisms to communicate disease to humans.
(24) Develop innovations that would promote safe, nondestructive, recreational access to and use of marine and Great Lakes water.
(25) Re-examine the ocean as an appropriate place for the disposal of wastes from land-based society.
(26) Develop an increased understanding of the impacts of low density, nonbiodegradable, solid wastes on marine and Great Lakes species.
(27) Conduct research for realizing the economic potential of the nonliving resources of the U.S. 200-mile Exclusive Economic Zone.
(28) Investigate the effect of seafloor hydrothermal systems on the seafloor, oceans, and atmosphere.
(29) Develop a better understanding of the value the marine sector contributes to the U.S. economy and culture.
(30) Improve the competitive position of American ports in the face of rapid technological and social change.
(31) Improve the capability of developing nations to address their marine resource needs.
(32) Develop eductional programs to increase application of marine sector research.
(33) Develop syntheses of and better access to existing multidisciplinary marine and Great Lakes information.
[43 FR 15307, Apr. 11, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 35210, Oct. 2, 1986]
§ 917.22
National Projects funding.
(a) National Projects funding proposals will be expected to address: (1) The relevance of the proposed project to a national need or problem that has been identified by the Administrator; (2) the nature and focus of the proposed project; (3) a demonstrated capacity to carry out the proposed project in a competent and cost-effective manner; and (4) the utilization of existing capability and coordination with other relevant projects. Innovation and uniqueness will be significant factors in determining whether to fund a proposed project.
(b) Any person may apply to the Office of Sea Grant for National Project funding. In addition, the Office of Sea Grant may invite applications for National Project funding.
(c) The total amount provided for National Projects' funding during any fiscal year can never exceed an amount equal to 10 percent of the total funds appropriated for the Matched Funding Program. Federal Sea Grant funding for National Projects can be up to 100 percent of the total cost of the project involved.

# Subpart D—International Cooperation Assistance
§ 917.30
General.
(a) 33 U.S.C. 1124a sets up a program of International Cooperation Assistance in marine reseach, marine education and training, and marine advisory services designed to enhance the research and technical capability of developing foreign nations with respect to ocean and coastal resources and to promote the international exchange of information and data with respect to the assessment, development, utilization, and conservation of such resources. Any Sea Grant College or Sea Grant Regional Consortium or any institution of higher education, laboratory, or institute (if such institution, laboratory or institute is located within any state) may apply for and receive International Cooperation Assistance funding.
(b) International Cooperation Assistance funding proposals will be expected to address: (1) The nature and focus of the proposed project, (2) the utilization of institutional and other appropriate resources in the implementation of the project, (3) a clear indication of the foreign participant's (individual or institution) commitment to the project, (4) identification of accomplishments expected from a single granting interval, (5) implicit or explicit out-year commitment of resources, and (6) the impact of the proposed project on the institution receiving funding.
(c) The projects supported by International Cooperation Assistance funding are intended to be genuinely cooperative. Innovation and uniqueness will be significant factors in the determination of proposals to be funded. In the case of a proposed international project that is submitted from an institution where a Sea Grant program is in existence, the extent to which the proposed project takes advantage of the Sea Grant institutional capability existing at that institution and thereby strengthening it, as opposed to being a mere appendage to the ongoing Sea Grant program, will also be an important evaluation factor. The U.S. Department of State will be given the opportunity to review all International Cooperation Assistance projects and
none will be funded without this consultation. Because the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) also funds international projects of the kind that can be funded under the Sea Grant International Cooperation Assistance program, and, to effect coordination in this area between Sea Grant and UNESCO, the Division of Marine Sciences (UNESCO) will be informed of all International Cooperation Assistance projects funded.

# Subpart E—General Considerations Pertaining to Sea Grant Funding
§ 917.40
General.
This subpart sets forth general considerations pertaining to Sea Grant funding.
§ 917.41
Application guidance for Sea Grant funding.
(a) Detailed guidance for submission of applications for National Sea Grant Program Funding is given in the publication, “The National Sea Grant Program: Program Description and Suggestions for Preparing Proposals,” available on request from: Office of Sea Grant Program, 3300 Whitehaven Street NW., Washington, DC 20235.
(b) It is noted here that application for Sea Grant funding shall be made pursuant to the following Federal provisions:
(1) OMB Circular A-110 “Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations.”
(2) OMB Circular A-111, “Designation of Federal Programs Suitable for Joint Funding Purposes.”
(3) GSA FMC 73-6, “Coordinating Indirect Cost Rates and Audit at Educational Institutions.”
(4) GSA FMC 73-7, “Administration of College and University Research Grants.”
(5) GSA FMC 73-8, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.”
(6) GSA FMC 74-4, “Cost Principles Applicable to Grants and Contracts with State and Local Governments.”
(7) OMB Circular A-102, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants-in-Aid to State and Local Governments.”
(8) NOAA General Provisions implementing OMB Circular A-110, “Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations.”
§ 917.42
Categories of support available for the conducting of Sea Grant activities.
(a) Three categories of support are available for the conducting of Sea Grant activities: Projects; coherent area programs; and institutional programs. In general, funding for institutional programs and coherent area programs are made with expectation of renewal, as long as the funding recipient maintains a high level of quality and relevance in its activities. Project funding is made generally for a single item of research, education and training, or advisory service, but may be renewed under certain conditions; each renewal is negotiated individually.
(b) Project support is for a clearly defined activity to be conducted over a definite period of time to achieve a specified goal. The project may be in research, education, training, or advisory services. Support for a project is made to an individual investigator or project director through his organization.
(c) Intermediate between the institutional programs and individual projects are coherent area programs. These have two main purposes:
(1) To bring into the National Sea Grant Program institutions of higher education that have a strong core of capability in some aspects of marine affairs, but which do not qualify or do not wish to qualify for institutional program support at this time. The purpose of support in such cases is to enable the institution to apply its existing competence to its regional problems and opportunities while developing the broader base of capability and the internal organization that will lead to institutional support. This program category requires a definite commitment on the part of the institution to develop an institutional program and to present a multiproject, multidisciplinary program involving the existing competence of an institution in
a unified or coherent attack on well-defined local or regional problems. Such a coherent area program should include research, education and training, and advisory services, to the extent of the institution's capability.
(2) To bring into the National Sea Grant Program (on a more or less continuing basis) qualified entities that have rare or unique capability in a specialized field of marine affairs. Such entities need not be institutions of higher education.
(d) Institutional grants are made to institutions of higher education or to a combination of institutions that have an existing broad base of competence in marine affairs. To qualify, an institution must make a positive, long-range commitment to objectives of the National Sea Grant Program as evidence by committing the institution's own resources in the form of matching funds, creation of the organization necessary for management of the Sea Grant Program, quality education programs in marine areas, establishment of interdisciplinary research teams, and development of advisory service mechanisms for strong interaction with marine communities in its region. A Sea Grant institutional program is expected to provide intellectual leadership in assisting its region to solve problems and to realize opportunities of its marine environment. To the extent possible, an institutional program should involve all appropriate elements of the institution, whether colleges or departments, and devise cooperative or mutally supporting programs with other institutions of higher education, and with Federal and state agencies, local agencies, and industry. An institutional program should have substantial strength in the three basic Sea Grant activities: research, education and training, and advisory services. Sea Grant institutional programs that meet the qualifications for Sea Grant College or Sea Grant Regional Consortium status set forth at 15 CFR part 918 will be so designated by the Secretary.
§ 917.43
Terms and conditions of Sea Grant funding.
No Sea Grant funding may be applied to:
(a)(1) the purchase or rental of any land or (2) the purchase, rental, construction, preservation, or repair of any building, dock, or vessel, except that payment under any such grant or contract may (if approved by the Assistant Administrator for Administration of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or designee) be applied to the purchase, rental, construction, preservation, or repair of non-self-propelled habitats, buoys, platforms, and other similar devices or structures, or to the rental of any research vessel which is used in direct support of activities under any Sea Grant program or project.
(b) In addition, Sea Grant funding under the Sea Grant Matched Funding Program will be subject to the limitation that the total amount which may be obligated within any one state to persons under the Sea Grant Matched Funding Program in any fiscal year shall not exceed an amount equal to 15 percent of the funds appropriated for the Sea Grant Matched Funding Program.
(c) Any person who receives or utilizes Sea Grant funding shall keep the records required by OMB Circular A-110, “Grant and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations,” and by NOAA General Provision, implementing OMB Circular A-110, by OMB Circular A-102, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants-in-Aid to State and Local Governments,” including records that fully disclose the amount and disposition by the recipient of such proceeds, the total cost of the program or project in which such proceeds were used, and the amount, if any, of such cost which was provided through other sources. Such records shall be maintained for three years after the completion of such a program or project. The Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit and evaluation, to any books, documents, papers, and records of receipt which, in the opinion of the Secretary or the Comptroller General, may be related or pertinent to such grants and contracts.
Pt. 918

# PART 918—SEA GRANTS
Sec.
918.1
Introduction.
918.2
Definitions.
918.3
Eligibility, qualifications, and responsibility of a Sea Grant College.
918.4
Duration of Sea Grant College designation.
918.5
Eligibility, qualifications, and responsibilities—Sea Grant Regional Consortia.
918.6
Duration of Sea Grant Regional Consortium designation.
918.7
Application for designation.

# Authority:
Sec. 207, National Sea Grant College Program Act, as amended (Pub. L. 94-461, 33 U.S.C. 1121,
et seq.
).

# Source:
44 FR 75054, Dec. 18, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 918.1
Introduction.
Pursuant to section 207 of the National Sea Grant College Program Act, as amended (Pub. L. 94-461, 33 U.S.C. 1121
et seq.
), herein referred to as the Act, the following guidelines establish the procedures by which organizations can qualify for designation as Sea Grant Colleges or Sea Grant Regional Consortia, and the responsibilities required of organizations so designated.
§ 918.2
Definitions.
(a)
Marine environment.
The term
Marine Environment
means any or all of the following: the coastal zone, as defined in section 304(1) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453(1)); the seabed, subsoil and waters of the territorial sea of the United States, including the Great Lakes; the waters of any zone over which the United States asserts exclusive fishery management authority; the waters of the high seas; and the seabed and subsoil of and beyond the Outer Continental Shelf.
(b)
Ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources.
The term
ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources
means any resource (whether living, nonliving, manmade, tangible, intangible, actual, or potential) which is located in, derived from, or traceable to, the marine environment. Such term includes the habitat of any such living resource, the coastal space, the ecosystems, the nutrient-rich areas, and the other components of the marine environment which contribute to or provide (or which are capable of contributing to or providing) recreational, scenic, aesthetic, biological, habitational, commercial, economic, or conservation values. Living resources include natural and cultured plant life, fish, shellfish, marine mammals, and wildlife. Nonliving resources include energy sources, minerals, and chemical substances.
(c)
Person.
The term
Person
means any public or private corporation, partnership, or other association or entity (including any Sea Grant College, Sea Grant Regional Consortium, institution of higher education, institute, or laboratory); or any State, political subdivision of a State, or agency or officer thereof.
(d)
Sea Grant College.
The term
Sea Grant College
means any public or private institution of higher education or confederation of such institutions which is designated as such by the Secretary under section 207 of the National Sea Grant Program Act. Included in this term are all campuses (or other administrative entities) of a designated Sea Grant College, working through the established management structure of the Sea Grant College.
(e)
Sea Grant Program.
The term
Sea Grant Program
means any program which:
(1) Is administered by a Sea Grant College, Sea Grant Regional Consortium, institution of higher education, institute, laboratory, or State or local agency; and
(2) Includes two or more Sea Grant projects involving one or more of the following activities in fields related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources:
(i) Research,
(ii) Education and training, and
(iii) Advisory services.
(f)
Sea Grant project.
A Sea Grant project is any separately described activity which has been proposed to the National Sea Grant College Program, and has subsequently been approved.
(g)
Sea Grant Regional Consortium.
The term
Sea Grant Regional Consortium
means any association or other alliance of two or more persons as defined above (other than individuals) established for the purpose of pursuing programs in marine research education,
training, and advisory services on a regional basis (
i.e.
, beyond the boundaries of a single state) and which is designated as a consortium by the Secretary under section 207 of the National Sea Grant Program Act.
(h)
Field related to Ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources.
The term
field related to Ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources
means any discipline or field (including marine sciences and the physical, natural, and biological sciences, and engineering, included therein, marine technology, education, economics, sociology, communications, planning law, international affairs, public administration, humanities, and the arts) which is concerned with, or likely to improve the understanding, assessment, development, utilization, or conservation of, ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources.
§ 918.3
Eligibility, qualifications, and responsibility of a Sea Grant College.
(a) To be eligible for designation as a Sea Grant College, the institution of higher education or confederation of such institutions must have demonstrated a capability to maintain a high quality and balanced program of research, education, training, and advisory services in fields related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources for a minimum of three years, and have received financial assistance as an Institutional program under either section 205 of the National Sea Grant College Program Act or under section 204(c) of the earlier National Sea Grant College and Program Act of 1966.
(b) To be eligible for designation as a Sea Grant College, the candidate institution or confederation of institutions must meet the qualifications set forth above as evaluated by a site review team composed of members of the Sea Grant Review Panel, NOAA's Office of Sea Grant, and other experts named by NOAA. As a result of this review, the candidate must be rated highly in all of the following qualifying areas:
(1)
Leadership.
The Sea Grant College candidate must have achieved recognition as an intellectual and practical leader in marine science, engineering, education, and advisory service in its state and region.
(2)
Organization.
The Sea Grant College candidate must have created the management organization to carry on a viable and productive Sea Grant Program, and must have the backing of its administration at a sufficiently high level to fulfill its multidisciplinary and multifaceted mandate.
(3)
Relevance.
The Sea Grant College candidate's program must be relevant to local, State, regional, or National opportunities and problems in the marine environment. Important factors in evaluating relevance are the need for marine resource emphasis and the extent to which capabilities have been developed to be responsive to that need.
(4)
Programmed team approach.
The Sea Grant College candidate must have a programmed team approach to the solution of marine problems which includes relevant, high quality, multidisciplinary research with associated educational and advisory services capable of producing identifiable results.
(5)
Education and training.
Education and training must be clearly relevant to National, regional, State and local needs in fields related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources. As appropriate, education may include pre-college, college, post-graduate, public and adult levels.
(6)
Advisory services.
The Sea Grant College candidate must have a strong program through which information, techniques,and research results from any reliable source, domestic or international, may be communicated to and utilized by user communities. In addition to the educational and information dissemination role, the advisory service program must aid in the identification and communication of user communities' research and educational needs.
(7)
Relationships.
The Sea Grant College candidate must have close ties with Federal agencies. State agencies and administrations, local authorities, business and industry, and other educational institutions. These ties are: (i) To ensure the relevance of its programs, (ii) to give assistance to the
broadest possible audience, (iii) to involve a broad pool of talent in providing this assistance (including universities and other administrative entities outside the Sea Grant College), and (iv) to assist others in developing research and management competence. The extent and quality of an institution's relationships are critical factors in evaluating the institutional program.
(8)
Productivity.
The Sea Grant College candidate must have demonstrated the degree of productivity (of research results, reports, employed students, service to State agencies and industry, etc.) commensurate with the length of its Sea Grant operations and the level of funding under which it has worked.
(9)
Support.
The Sea Grant College candidate must have the ability to obtain matching funds from non-Federal sources, such as state legislatures, university management, state agencies, business, and industry. A diversity of matching fund sources is encouraged as a sign of program vitality and the ability to meet the Sea Grant requirement that funds for the general programs be matched with at least one non-Federal dollar for every two Federal dollars.
(c) Finally, it must be found that the Sea Grant College candidate will act in accordance with the following standards relating to its continuing responsibilities if it should be designated a Sea Grant College:
(1) Continue pursuit of excellence and high performance in marine research, education, training, and advisory services.
(2) Provide leadership in marine activities including coordinated planning and cooperative work with local, state, regional, and Federal agencies, other Sea Grant Programs, and non-Sea Grant universities.
(3) Maintain an effective management framework and application of institutional resources to the achievement of Sea Grant objectives.
(4) Develop and implement long-term plans for research, education, training, and advisory services consistent with Sea Grant goals and objectives.
(5) Advocate and further the Sea Grant concept and the full development of its potential within the institution and the state.
(6) Provide adequate and stable matching financial support for the program from non-Federal sources.
(7) Establish and operate an effective system to control the quality of its Sea Grant programs.
§ 918.4
Duration of Sea Grant College designation.
Designation will be made on the basis of merit and the determination by the Secretary of Commerce that such a designation is consistent with the goals of the Act. Continuation of the Sea Grant College designation is contingent upon the institution's ability to maintain a high quality performance consistent with the requirements outlined above. The Secretary may, for cause and after an opportunity for hearing, suspend or terminate a designation as a Sea Grant College.
§ 918.5
Eligibility, qualifications, and responsibilities—Sea Grant Regional Consortia.
(a) To be eligible for designation as a Sea Grant Regional Consortium, the candidate association or alliance of organizations must provide, in significant breadth and quality, one or more services in the areas of research, education, and training, or advisory service in fields related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources. Further, it is essential that the candidate Sea Grant Consortium be required to provide all three services as soon as possible after designation. Further, such association or alliance must demonstrate that:
(1) It has been established for the purpose of sharing expertise, research, educational facilities, or training facilities, and other capabilities in order to facilitate research, education, training, and advisory services in any field related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources; and
(2) It will encourage and follow a regional multi-State approach to solving problems or meeting needs relating to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources, in cooperation with appropriate Sea Grant Colleges, Sea Grant Programs and other persons in the region.
(b) Although it is recognized that the distribution of effort between research,
education, training, and advisory services to achieve appropriate balance in a Sea Grant Regional Consortium may differ from a Sea Grant College, sustained effort in all of these areas is, nonetheless, an essential requirement for retention of such designation. To be eligible for designation as a Sea Grant Regional Consortium, the candidate association or alliance of organizations must meet the qualifications set forth above as evaluated by a site review team composed of members of the Sea Grant Review Panel, the Office of Sea Grant, and other experts. Further, the candidate must be rated highly in all of the following qualifying areas which are pertinent to the Consortium's program:
(1)
Leadership.
The Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate must have achieved recognition as an intellectual and practical leader in marine science, engineering, education, and advisory service in its region.
(2)
Organization.
The Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate must have created the management organization to carry on a viable and productive multidisciplinary Sea Grant Program and have the backing of the administrations of its component organizations at a sufficiently high level to fulfill its multidisciplinary and multifaceted mandate.
(3)
Relevance.
The Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate's Sea Grant Program must be relevant to regional opportunities and problems in the marine environment. Important factors in evaluating relevance are the extent and depth of the need of a region for a focused marine resource emphasis and the degree to which the candidate has developed its capability to be responsive to that need.
(4)
Education and training.
Education and training must be clearly relevant to regional needs and must be of high quality in fields related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources. As appropriate, education may include precollege, college, post-graduate, public and adult levels.
(5)
Advisory services.
The Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate must have a strong program through which information techniques, and research results from any reliable source, domestic or international, may be communicated to and utilized by user communities. In addition to the educational and information dissemination role, the advisory service program must aid in the identification and communication of user communities' research and educational needs.
(6)
Relationships.
The Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate must have close ties with federal agencies, state agencies and administrations, regional authorities, regional business and industry, and other regional educational institutions. These regional ties are: (i) To ensure the relevance of programs, (ii) to generate requests for such assistance as the consortium may offer, and (iii) to assist others in developing research and management competence. The extent and quality of a candidate's relationships are critical factors in evaluating the proposed designation.
(7)
Productivity.
The Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate must have demonstrated a degree of productivity (of research results, reports, employed students, service to regional agencies, industry, etc.) commensurate with the length of its Sea Grant operations and the level of funding under which it has worked.
(8)
Support.
The Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate must have the ability to obtain matching funds from non-Federal sources, such as State legislatures, university management, State agencies, and business and industry. A diversity of matching funds sources is encouraged as a sign of program vitality and the ability to meet the Sea Grant requirement that funds for the general programs be matched with at least one non-Federal dollar for every two Federal dollars.
(c) Finally, it must be found that the Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate will act in accordance with the following standards relating to its continuing responsibilities as a Sea Grant Regional Consortium:
(1) Continue pursuit of excellence and high performance in marine research education, training, and advisory services.
(2) Provide regional leadership in marine activities including coordinated planning and cooperative work with
local, State, regional, and Federal agencies, other Sea Grant Programs, and non-Sea Grant organizations.
(3) Maintain an effective management framework and application of organizational resources to the achievement of Sea Grant objectives.
(4) Develop and implement long-term plans for research, education, training, and advisory services consistent with Sea Grant goals and objectives.
(5) Advocate and further the Sea Grant concept and the full development of its potential within the consortium and the region.
(6) Provide adequate and stable matching financial support for the program from non-Federal sources.
(7) Establish and operate an effective system to control the quality of its Sea Grant program.
§ 918.6
Duration of Sea Grant Regional Consortium designation.
Designation will be made on the basis of merit and the determination by the Secretary of Commerce that such a designation is consistent with the goals of the Act. Continuation of the Sea Grant Regional Consortium designation is contingent upon the alliance's ability to maintain a high quality performance consistent with the standards outlined above. The Secretary may, for cause and after an opportunity for hearing, suspend or terminate the designation as a Sea Grant Regional Consortium.
§ 918.7
Application for designation.
(a) All applications for initial designation as a Sea Grant College or a Regional Consortium should be addressed to the Secretary of Commerce and submitted to the Director, National Sea Grant College Program, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The application should contain an outline of the capabilities of the applicant and the reasons why the applicant believes that it merits designation under the guidelines contained in this regulation. Upon receipt of the application, the Director will present the institution's case to the Sea Grant Review Panel for evaluation. The Panel's recommendation will be forwarded to the Secretary for final action.
(b) An existing Sea Grant College or Regional Consortium may also apply as in paragraph (a) of this section, for a change in the scope of designation to include or exclude other administrative entities of the institution or association. If approved by the Secretary such included (excluded) administrative entities shall share (lose) the full rights and responsibilities of a Sea Grant College or Regional Consortium.

# SUBCHAPTER B—OCEAN AND COASTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Pt. 921

# PART 921—NATIONAL ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESERVE SYSTEM REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
921.1
Mission, goals and general provisions.
921.2
Definitions.
921.3
National Estuarine Research Reserve System biogeographic classification scheme and estuarine typologies.
921.4
Relationship to other provisions of the Coastal Zone Management Act and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.

# Subpart B—Site Selection, Post Site Selection and Management Plan Development
921.10
General.
921.11
Site selection and feasibility.
921.12
Post site selection.
921.13
Management plan and environmental impact statement development.

# Subpart C—Acquisition, Development and Preparation of the Final Management Plan
921.20
General.
921.21
Initial acquisition and development awards.

# Subpart D—Reserve Designation and Subsequent Operation
921.30
Designation of National Estuarine Research Reserves.
921.31
Supplemental acquisition and development awards.
921.32
Operation and management: Implementation of the management plan.
921.33
Boundary changes, amendments to the management plan, and addition of multiple-site components.

# Subpart E—Ongoing Oversight, Performance Evaluation and Withdrawal of Designation
921.40
Ongoing oversight and evaluations of designated National Estuarine Research Reserves.
921.41
Withdrawal of designation.

# Subpart F—Special Research Projects
921.50
General.
921.51
Estuarine research guidelines.
921.52
Promotion and coordination of estuarine research.

# Subpart G—Special Monitoring Projects
921.60
General.

# Subpart H—Special Interpretation and Education Projects
921.70
General.

# Subpart I—General Financial Assistance Provisions
921.80
Application information.
921.81
Allowable costs.
921.82
Amendments to financial assistance awards.
Appendix I to Part 921—Biogeographic Classification Scheme
Appendix II to Part 921—Typology of National Estuarine Research Reserves

# Authority:
Section 315 of the Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1461).

# Source:
58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 921.1
Mission, goals and general provisions.
(a) The mission of the National Estuarine Research Reserve Program is the establishment and management, through Federal-state cooperation, of a national system (National Estuarine Research Reserve System or System) of estuarine research reserves (National Estuarine Research Reserves or Reserves) representative of the various regions and estuarine types in the United States. National Estuarine Research Reserves are established to provide opportunities for long-term research, education, and interpretation.
(b) The goals of the Program are to:
(1) Ensure a stable environment for research through long-term protection of National Estuarine Research Reserve resources;
(2) Address coastal management issues identified as significant through coordinated estuarine research within the System;
(3) Enhance public awareness and understanding of estuarine areas and provide suitable opportunities for public education and interpretation;
(4) Promote Federal, state, public and private use of one or more Reserves within the System when such entities conduct estuarine research; and
(5) Conduct and coordinate estuarine research within the System, gathering and making available information necessary for improved understanding and management of estuarine areas.
(c) National Estuarine Research Reserves shall be open to the public to the extent permitted under state and Federal law. Multiple uses are allowed to the degree compatible with each Reserve's overall purpose as provided in the management plan (see § 921.13) and consistent with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Use levels are set by the state where the Reserve is located and analyzed in the management plan. The Reserve management plan shall describe the uses and establish priorities among these uses. The plan shall identify uses requiring a state permit, as well as areas where uses are encouraged or prohibited. Consistent with resource protection and research objectives, public access and use may be restricted to certain areas or components within a Reserve.
(d) Habitat manipulation for research purposes is allowed consistent with the following limitations. Manipulative research activities must be specified in the management plan, be consistent with the mission and goals of the program (see paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section) and the goals and objectives set forth in the Reserve's management plan, and be limited in nature and extent to the minimum manipulative activity necessary to accomplish the stated research objective. Manipulative research activities with a significant or long-term impact on Reserve resources require the prior approval of the state and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Manipulative research activities which can reasonably be expected to have a significant adverse impact on the estuarine resources and habitat of a Reserve, such that the activities themselves or their resulting short- and long-term consequences compromise the representative character and integrity of a Reserve, are prohibited. Habitat manipulation for resource management purposes is prohibited except as specifically approved by NOAA as: (1) A restoration activity consistent with paragraph (e) of this section; or (2) an activity necessary for the protection of public health or the preservation of other sensitive resources which have been listed or are eligible for protection under relevant Federal or state authority (e.g., threatened/endangered species or significant historical or cultural resources) or if the manipulative activity is a long-term pre-existing use (
i.e.,
has occurred prior to designation) occurring in a buffer area. If habitat manipulation is determined to be necessary for the protection of public health, the preservation of sensitive resources, or if the manipulation is a long-term pre-existing use in a buffer area, then these activities shall be specified in the Reserve management plan in accordance with § 921.13(a)(10) and shall be limited to the reasonable alternative which has the least adverse and shortest term impact on the representative and ecological integrity of the Reserve.
(e) Under the Act an area may be designated as an estuarine Reserve only if the area is a representative estuarine ecosystem that is suitable for long-term research. Many estuarine areas have undergone some ecological change as a result of human activities (e.g., hydrological changes, intentional/unintentional species composition changes—introduced and exotic species). In those areas proposed or designated as National Estuarine Research Reserves, such changes may have diminished the representative character and integrity of the site. Although restoration of degraded areas is not a primary purpose of the System, such activities may be permitted to improve the representative character and integrity of a Reserve. Restoration activities must be carefully planned and approved by NOAA through the Reserve management plan. Historical research may be necessary to determine the “natural” representative state of an estuarine area (
i.e.,
an estuarine ecosystem minimally affected by
human activity or influence). Frequently, restoration of a degraded estuarine area will provide an excellent opportunity for management oriented research.
(f) NOAA may provide financial assistance to coastal states, not to exceed, per Reserve, 50 percent of all actual costs or $5 million whichever amount is less, to assist in the acquisition of land and waters, or interests therein. NOAA may provide financial assistance to coastal states not to exceed 70 percent of all actual costs for the management and operation of, the development and construction of facilities, and the conduct of educational or interpretive activities concerning Reserves (see subpart I). NOAA may provide financial assistance to any coastal state or public or private person, not to exceed 70 percent of all actual costs, to support research and monitoring within a Reserve. Notwithstanding any financial assistance limits established by this Part, when financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, such assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of all actual costs of activities carrier out with this assistance, as long as such funds are available. Predesignation, acquisition and development, operation and management, special research and monitoring, and special education and interpretation awards are available under the National Estuarine Reserve Program. Predesignation awards are for site selection/feasibility, draft management plan preparation and conduct of basic characterization studies. Acquisition and development awards are intended primarily for acquisition of interests in land, facility construction and to develop and/or upgrade research, monitoring and education programs. Operation and management awards provide funds to assist in implementing, operating and managing the administrative, and basic research, monitoring and education programs, outlined in the Reserve management plan. Special research and monitoring awards provide funds to conduct estuarine research and monitoring projects with the System. Special educational and interpretive awards provide funds to conduct estuarine educational and interpretive projects within the System.
(g) Lands already in protected status managed by other Federal agencies, state or local governments, or private organizations may be included within National Estuarine Research Reserves only if the managing entity commits to long-term management consistent with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section in the Reserve management plan. Federal lands already in protected status may not comprise a majority of the key land and water areas of a Reserve (see § 921.11(c)(3)).
(h) To assist the states in carrying out the Program's goals in an effective manner, NOAA will coordinate a research and education information exchange throughout the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. As part of this role, NOAA will ensure that information and ideas from one Reserve are made available to others in the System. The network will enable Reserves to exchange information and research data with each other, with universities engaged in estuarine research, and with Federal, state, and local agencies. NOAA's objective is a system-wide program of research and monitoring capable of addressing the management issues that affect long-term productivity of our Nation's estuaries.
[58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 12540, Mar. 17, 1997; 63 FR 26717, May 14, 1998]
§ 921.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
(b)
Assistant Administrator
means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management or delegee.
(c)
Coastal state
means a state of the United States, in or bordering on, the Atlantic, Pacific, or Arctic Ocean, the Gulf of Mexico, Long Island Sound, or one or more of the Great Lakes. For the purposes of these regulations the term also includes Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands, the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands, and American Samoa (see 16 U.S.C. 1453(4)).
(d)
State agency
means an instrumentality of a coastal state to whom the coastal state has delegated the authority and responsibility for the creation and/or management/operation of a National Estuarine Research Reserve. Factors indicative of this authority may include the power to receive and expend funds on behalf of the Reserve, acquire and sell or convey real and personal property interests, adopt rules for the protection of the Reserve, enforce rules applicable to the Reserve, or develop and implement research and education programs for the reserve. For the purposes of these regulations, the terms “coastal state” and “State agency” shall be synonymous.
(e)
Estuary
means that part of a river or stream or other body of water having unimpaired connection with the open sea, where the sea water is measurably diluted with fresh water derived from land drainage. The term also includes estuary-type areas with measurable freshwater influence and having unimpaired connections with the open sea, and estuary-type areas of the Great Lakes and their connecting waters (see 16 U.S.C. 1453(7)).
(f)
National Estuarine Research Reserve
means an area that is a representative estuarine ecosystem suitable for long-term research, which may include all of the key land and water portion of an estuary, and adjacent transitional areas and uplands constituting to the extent feasible a natural unit, and which is set aside as a natural field laboratory to provide long-term opportunities for research, education, and interpretation on the ecological relationships within the area (see 16 U.S.C. 1453(8)) and meets the requirements of 16 U.S.C. 1461(b). This includes those areas designated as National Estuarine Sanctuaries or Reserves under section 315 of the Act prior to enactment of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990 and each area subsequently designated as a National Estuarine Research Reserve.
§ 921.3
National Estuarine Research Reserve System biogeographic classification scheme and estuarine typologies.
(a) National Estuarine Research Reserves are chosen to reflect regional differences and to include a variety of ecosystem types. A biogeographic classification scheme based on regional variations in the nation's coastal zone has been developed. The biogeographic classification scheme is used to ensure that the National Estuarine Research Reserve System includes at least one site from each region. The estuarine typology system is utilized to ensure that sites in the System reflect the wide range of estuarine types within the United States.
(b) The biogeographic classification scheme, presented in appendix I, contains 29 regions. Figure 1 graphically depicts the biogeographic regions of the United States.
(c) The typology system is presented in appendix II.
§ 921.4
Relationship to other provisions of the Coastal Zone Management Act, and to the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
(a) The National Estuarine Research Reserve System is intended to provide information to state agencies and other entities involved in addressing coastal management issues. Any coastal state, including those that do not have approved coastal management programs under section 306 of the Act, is eligible for an award under the National Estuarine Research Reserve Program (see § 921.2(c)).
(b) For purposes of consistency review by states with a federally approved coastal management program, the designation of a National Estuarine Research Reserve is deemed to be a Federal activity, which, if directly affecting the state's coastal zone, must be undertaken in a manner consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the approved state coastal management program as provided by section 1456(c)(1) of the Act, and implementing regulations at 15 CFR part 930, subpart C. In accordance with section 1456(c)(1) of the Act and the applicable regulations NOAA will be responsible for certifying that designation of the Reserve is consistent with the state's approved coastal management program. The state must concur with or object to the certification. It is recommended that the lead state agency for Reserve designation consult, at the
earliest practicable time, with the appropriate state officials concerning the consistency of a proposed National Estuarine Research Reserve.
(c) The National Estuarine Research Reserve Program will be administered in close coordination with the National Marine Sanctuary Program (Title III of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1431-1445), also administered by NOAA. Title III authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to designate discrete areas of the marine environment as National Marine Sanctuaries to protect or restore such areas for their conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, research, educational or esthetic values. National Marine Sanctuaries and Estuarine Research Reserves may not overlap, but may be adjacent.

# Subpart B—Site Selection, Post Site Selection and Management Plan Development
§ 921.10
General.
(a) A coastal state may apply for Federal financial assistance for the purpose of site selection, preparation of documents specified in § 921.13 (draft management plan (DMP) and environmental impact statement (EIS)), and the conduct of limited basic characterization studies. The total Federal share of this assistance may not exceed $100,000. Federal financial assistance for preacquisition activities under § 921.11 and § 921.12 is subject to the total $5 million for which each Reserve is eligible for land acquisition. Notwithstanding the above, when financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, such assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of all actual costs of activities carried out with this assistance, as long as such funds are available. In the case of a biogeographic region (see appendix I) shared by two or more coastal states, each state is eligible for Federal financial assistance to establish a separate National Estuarine Research Reserve within their respective portion of the shared biogeographic region. Each separate National Estuarine Research Reserve is eligible for the full complement of funding. Financial assistance application procedures are specified in subpart I.
(b) In developing a Reserve program, a state may choose to develop a multiple-site Reserve reflecting a diversity of habitats in a single biogeographic region. A multiple-site Reserve allows the state to develop complementary research and educational programs within the individual components of its multi-site Reserve. Multiple-site Reserves are treated as one Reserve in terms of financial assistance and development of an overall management framework and plan. Each individual site of a proposed multiple-site Reserve shall be evaluated both separately under § 921.11(c) and collectively as part of the site selection process. A coastal state may propose to establish a multiple-site Reserve at the time of the initial site selection, or at any point in the development or operation of the Reserve. If the state decides to develop a multiple-site National Estuarine Research Reserve after the initial acquisition and development award is made for a single site, the proposal is subject to the requirements set forth in § 921.33(b). However, a state may not propose to add one or more sites to an already designated Reserve if the operation and management of such Reserve has been found deficient and uncorrected or the research conducted is not consistent with the Estuarine Research Guidelines referenced in § 921.51. In addition, Federal funds for the acquisition of a multiple-site Reserve remain limited to $5,000,000 (see § 921.20). The funding for operation of a multiple-site Reserve is limited to the maximum allowed for any one Reserve per year (see § 921.32(c)) and preacquisition funds are limited to $100,000 per Reserve. Notwithstanding the above, when financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, such assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of all actual costs of activities carrier out with this assistance, as long as such funds are available.
[58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, as amended at 63 FR 26717, May 14, 1998]
§ 921.11
Site selection and feasibility.
(a) A coastal state may use Federal funds to establish and implement a site selection process which is approved by NOAA.
(b) In addition to the requirements set forth in subpart I, a request for Federal funds for site selection must contain the following programmatic information:
(1) A description of the proposed site selection process and how it will be implemented in conformance with the biogeographic classification scheme and typology (§ 921.3);
(2) An identification of the site selection agency and the potential management agency; and
(3) A description of how public participation will be incorporated into the process (see § 921.11(d)).
(c) As part of the site selection process, the state and NOAA shall evaluate and select the final site(s). NOAA has final authority in approving such sites. Site selection shall be guided by the following principles:
(1) The site's contribution to the biogeographical and typological balance of the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. NOAA will give priority consideration to proposals to establish Reserves in biogeographic regions or subregions or incorporating types that are not represented in the system. (see the biogeographic classification scheme and typology set forth in § 921.3 and appendices I and II);
(2) The site's ecological characteristics, including its biological productivity, diversity of flora and fauna, and capacity to attract a broad range of research and educational interests. The proposed site must be a representative estuarine ecosystem and should, to the maximum extent possible, be an estuarine ecosystem minimally affected by human activity or influence (see § 921.1(e)).
(3) Assurance that the site's boundaries encompass an adequate portion of the key land and water areas of the natural system to approximate an ecological unit and to ensure effective conservation. Boundary size will vary greatly depending on the nature of the ecosystem. Reserve boundaries must encompass the area within which adequate control has or will be established by the managing entity over human activities occurring within the Reserve. Generally, Reserve boundaries will encompass two areas: Key land and water areas (or “core area”) and a buffer zone. Key land and water areas and a buffer zone will likely require significantly different levels of control (see § 921.13(a)(7)). The term “key land and water areas” refers to that core area within the Reserve that is so vital to the functioning of the estuarine ecosystem that it must be under a level of control sufficient to ensure the long-term viability of the Reserve for research on natural processes. Key land and water areas, which comprise the core area, are those ecological units of a natural estuarine system which preserve, for research purposes, a full range of significant physical, chemical and biological factors contributing to the diversity of fauna, flora and natural processes occurring within the estuary. The determination of which land and water areas are “key” to a particular Reserve must be based on specific scientific knowledge of the area. A basic principle to follow when deciding upon key land and water areas is that they should encompass resources representative of the total ecosystem, and which if compromised could endanger the research objectives of the Reserve. The term
buffer zone
refers to an area adjacent to or surrounding key land and water areas and essential to their integrity. Buffer zones protect the core area and provide additional protection for estuarine-dependent species, including those that are rare or endangered. When determined appropriate by the state and approved by NOAA, the buffer zone may also include an area necessary for facilities required for research and interpretation. Additionally, buffer zones should be established sufficient to accommodate a shift of the core area as a result of biological, ecological or geomorphological change which reasonably could be expected to occur. National Estuarine Research Reserves may include existing Federal or state lands already in a protected status where mutual benefit can be enhanced. However, NOAA will not approve a site
for potential National Estuarine Research Reserve status that is dependent primarily upon the inclusion of currently protected Federal lands in order to meet the requirements for Reserve status (such as key land and water areas). Such lands generally will be included within a Reserve to serve as a buffer or for other ancillary purposes; and may be included, subject to NOAA approval, as a limited portion of the core area;
(4) The site's suitability for long-term estuarine research, including ecological factors and proximity to existing research facilities and educational institutions;
(5) The site's compatibility with existing and potential land and water uses in contiguous areas as well as approved coastal and estuarine management plans; and
(6) The site's importance to education and interpretive efforts, consistent with the need for continued protection of the natural system.
(d) Early in the site selection process the state must seek the views of affected landowners, local governments, other state and Federal agencies and other parties who are interested in the area(s) being considered for selection as a potential National Estuarine Research Reserve. After the local government(s) and affected landowner(s) have been contacted, at least one public meeting shall be held in the vicinity of the proposed site. Notice of such a meeting, including the time, place, and relevant subject matter, shall be announced by the state through the area's principal newspaper at least 15 days prior to the date of the meeting and by NOAA in the
Federal Register.
(e) A state request for NOAA approval of a proposed site (or sites in the case of a multi-site Reserve) must contain a description of the proposed site(s) in relationship to each of the site selection principals (§ 921.11(c)) and the following information:
(1) An analysis of the proposed site(s) based on the biogeographical scheme/typology discussed in § 921.3 and set forth in appendices I and II;
(2) A description of the proposed site(s) and its (their) major resources, including location, proposed boundaries, and adjacent land uses. Maps are required;
(3) A description of the public participation process used by the state to solicit the views of interested parties, a summary of comments, and, if interstate issues are involved, documentation that the Governor(s) of the other affected state(s) has been contacted. Copies of all correspondence, including contact letters to all affected landowners must be appended;
(4) A list of all sites considered and a brief statement of the reasons why a site was not preferred; and
(5) A nomination of the proposed site(s) for designation as a National Estuarine Research Reserve by the Governor of the coastal state in which the state is located.
(f) A state proposing to reactivate an inactive site, previously approved by NOAA for development as an Estuarine Sanctuary or Reserve, may apply for those funds remaining, if any, provided for site selection and feasibility (§ 921.11a)) to determine the feasibility of reactivation. This feasibility study must comply with the requirements set forth in § 921.11 (c) through (e).
§ 921.12
Post site selection.
(a) At the time of the coastal state's request for NOAA approval of a proposed site, the state may submit a request for funds to develop the draft management plan and for preparation of the EIS. At this time, the state may also submit a request for the remainder of the predesignation funds to perform a limited basic characterization of the physical, chemical and biological characteristics of the site approved by NOAA necessary for providing EIS information to NOAA. The state's request for these post site selection funds must be accompanied by the information specified in subpart I and, for draft management plan development and EIS information collection, the following programmatic information:
(1) A draft management plan outline (see § 921.13(a) below); and
(2) An outline of a draft memorandum of understanding (MOU) between the state and NOAA detailing the Federal-state role in Reserve management during the initial period of Federal funding and expressing the
state's long-term commitment to operate and manage the Reserve.
(b) The state is eligible to use the funds referenced in § 921.12(a) after the proposed site is approved by NOAA under the terms of § 921.11.
§ 921.13
Management plan and environmental impact statement development.
(a) After NOAA approves the state's proposed site and application for funds submitted pursuant to § 921.12, the state may begin draft management plan development and the collection of information necessary for the preparation by NOAA of an EIS. The state shall develop a draft management plan, including an MOU. The plan shall set out in detail:
(1) Reserve goals and objectives, management issues, and strategies or actions for meeting the goals and objectives;
(2) An administrative plan including staff roles in administration, research, education/interpretation, and surveillance and enforcement;
(3) A research plan, including a monitoring design;
(4) An education/interpretive plan;
(5) A plan for public access to the Reserve;
(6) A construction plan, including a proposed construction schedule, general descriptions of proposed developments and general cost estimates. Information should be provided for proposed minor construction projects in sufficient detail to allow these projects to begin in the initial phase of acquisition and development. A categorical exclusion, environmental assessment, or EIS may be required prior to construction;
(7)(i) An acquisition plan identifying the ecologically key land and water areas of the Reserve, ranking these areas according to their relative importance, and including a strategy for establishing adequate long-term state control over these areas sufficient to provide protection for Reserve resources to ensure a stable environment for research. This plan must include an identification of ownership within the proposed Reserve boundaries, including land already in the public domain; the method(s) of acquisition which the state proposes to use—acquisition (including less-than-fee simple options) to establish adequate long-term state control; an estimate of the fair market value of any property interest—which is proposed for acquisition; a schedule estimating the time required to complete the process of establishing adequate state control of the proposed research reserve; and a discussion of any anticipated problems. In selecting a preferred method(s) for establishing adequate state control over areas within the proposed boundaries of the Reserve, the state shall perform the following steps for each parcel determined to be part of the key land and water areas (control over which is necessary to protect the integrity of the Reserve for research purposes), and for those parcels required for research and interpretive support facilities or buffer purposes:
(A) Determine, with appropriate justification, the minimum level of control(s) required [e.g., management agreement, regulation, less-than-fee simple property interest (e.g., conservation easement), fee simple property acquisition, or a combination of these approaches]. This does not preclude the future necessity of increasing the level of state control;
(B) Identify the level of existing state control(s);
(C) Identify the level of additional state control(s), if any, necessary to meet the minimum requirements identified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A) of this section;
(D) Examine all reasonable alternatives for attaining the level of control identified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(C) of this section, and perform a cost analysis of each; and
(E) Rank, in order of cost, the methods (including acquisition) identified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(D) of this section.
(ii) An assessment of the relative cost-effectiveness of control alternatives shall include a reasonable estimate of both short-term costs (e.g., acquisition of property interests, regulatory program development including associated enforcement costs, negotiation, adjudication, etc.) and long-term costs (e.g., monitoring, enforcement,
adjudication, management and coordination). In selecting a preferred method(s) for establishing adequate state control over each parcel examined under the process described above, the state shall give priority consideration to the least costly method(s) of attaining the minimum level of long-term control required. Generally, with the possible exception of buffer areas required for support facilities, the level of control(s) required for buffer areas will be considerably less than that required for key land and water areas. This acquisition plan, after receiving the approval of NOAA, shall serve as a guide for negotiations with landowners. A final boundary for the reserve shall be delineated as a part of the final management plan;
(8) A resource protection plan detailing applicable authorities, including allowable uses, uses requiring a permit and permit requirements, any restrictions on use of the research reserve, and a strategy for research reserve surveillance and enforcement of such use restrictions, including appropriate government enforcement agencies;
(9) If applicable, a restoration plan describing those portions of the site that may require habitat modification to restore natural conditions;
(10) If applicable, a resource manipulation plan, describing those portions of the Reserve buffer in which long-term pre-existing (prior to designation) manipulation for reasons not related to research or restoration is occurring. The plan shall explain in detail the nature of such activities, shall justify why such manipulation should be permitted to continue within the reserve buffer; and shall describe possible effects of this manipulation on key land and water areas and their resources;
(11) A proposed memorandum of understanding (MOU) between the state and NOAA regarding the Federal-state relationship during the establishment and development of the National Estuarine Research Reserve, and expressing a long-term commitment by the state to maintain and manage the Reserve in accordance with section 315 of the Act, 16 U.S.C. 1461, and applicable regulations. In conjunction with the MOU, and where possible under state law, the state will consider taking appropriate administrative or legislative action to ensure the long-term protection and operation of the National Estuarine Research Reserve. If other MOUs are necessary (such as with a Federal agency, another state agency or private organization), drafts of such MOUs must be included in the plan. All necessary MOU's shall be signed prior to Reserve designation; and
(12) If the state has a federally approved coastal management program, a certification that the National Estuarine Research Reserve is consistent to the maximum extent practicable with that program. See §§ 921.4(b) and 921.30(b).
(b) Regarding the preparation of an EIS under the National Environmental Policy Act on a National Estuarine Research Reserve proposal, the state and NOAA shall collect all necessary information concerning the socioeconomic and environmental impacts associated with implementing the draft management plan and feasible alternatives to the plan. Based on this information, the state will draft and provide NOAA with a preliminary EIS.
(c) Early in the development of the draft management plan and the draft EIS, the state and NOAA shall hold a scoping meeting (pursuant to NEPA) in the area or areas most affected to solicit public and government comments on the significant issues related to the proposed action. NOAA will publish a notice of the meeting in the
Federal Register
at least 15 days prior to the meeting. The state shall be responsible for publishing a similar notice in the local media.
(d) NOAA will publish a
Federal Register
notice of intent to prepare a draft EIS. After the draft EIS is prepared and filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a Notice of Availability of the draft EIS will appear in the
Federal Register.
Not less than 30 days after publication of the notice, NOAA will hold at least one public hearing in the area or areas most affected by the proposed national estuarine research reserve. The hearing will be held no sooner than 15 days after appropriate notice of the meeting has been given in the principal news media by the state and in the
Federal Register
by NOAA. After a 45-day
comment period, a final EIS will be prepared by the state and NOAA.

# Subpart C—Acquisition, Development and Preparation of the Final Management Plan
§ 921.20
General.
The acquisition and development period is separated into two major phases. After NOAA approval of the site, draft management plan and draft MOU, and completion of the final EIS, a coastal state is eligible for an initial acquisition and development award(s). In this initial phase, the state should work to meet the criteria required for formal research reserve designation; e.g., establishing adequate state control over the key land and water areas as specified in the draft management plan and preparing the final management plan. These requirements are specified in § 921.30. Minor construction in accordance with the draft management plan may also be conducted during this initial phase. The initial acquisition and development phase is expected to last no longer than three years. If necessary, a longer time period may be negotiated between the state and NOAA. After Reserve designation, a state is eligible for a supplemental acquisition and development award(s) in accordance with § 921.31. In this post-designation acquisition and development phase, funds may be used in accordance with the final management plan to construct research and educational facilities, complete any remaining land acquisition, for program development, and for restorative activities identified in the final management plan. In any case, the amount of Federal financial assistance provided to a coastal state with respect to the acquisition of lands and waters, or interests therein, for any one National Estuarine Research Reserve may not exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the costs of the lands, waters, and interests therein or $5,000,000, whichever amount is less, except when the financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, in which case the assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of all actual costs of activities carrier out with this assistance, as long as such funds are available.
[58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 12540, Mar. 17, 1997; 63 FR 26717, May 14, 1998]
§ 921.21
Initial acquisition and development awards.
(a) Assistance is provided to aid the recipient prior to designation in:
(1) Acquiring a fee simple or less-than-fee simple real property interest in land and water areas to be included in the Reserve boundaries (see § 921.13(a)(7); § 921.30(d));
(2) Minor construction, as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section;
(3) Preparing the final management plan; and
(4) Initial management costs, e.g., for implementing the NOAA approved draft management plan, hiring a Reserve manager and other staff as necessary and for other management-related activities. Application procedures are specified in subpart I.
(b) The expenditure of Federal and state funds on major construction activities is not allowed during the initial acquisition and development phase. The preparation of architectural and engineering plans, including specifications, for any proposed construction, or for proposed restorative activities, is permitted. In addition, minor construction activities, consistent with paragraph (c) of this section also are allowed. The NOAA-approved draft management plan must, however, include a construction plan and a public access plan before any award funds can be spent on construction activities.
(c) Only minor construction activities that aid in implementing portions of the management plan (such as boat ramps and nature trails) are permitted during the initial acquisition and development phase. No more than five (5) percent of the initial acquisition and development award may be expended on such activities. NOAA must make a specific determination, based on the final EIS, that the construction activity will not be detrimental to the environment.
(d) Except as specifically provided in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, construction projects, to be funded in whole or in part under an acquisition and development award(s), may not be initiated until the Reserve receives formal designation (see § 921.30). This requirement has been adopted to ensure that substantial progress in establishing adequate state control over key land and water areas has been made and that a final management plan is completed before major sums are spent on construction. Once substantial progress in establishing adequate state control/acquisition has been made, as defined by the state in the management plan, other activities guided by the final management plan may begin with NOAA's approval.
(e) For any real property acquired in whole or part with Federal funds for the Reserve, the state shall execute suitable title documents to include substantially the following provisions, or otherwise append the following provisions in a manner acceptable under applicable state law to the official land record(s):
(1) Title to the property conveyed by this deed shall vest in the [recipient of the award granted pursuant to section 315 of the Act, 16 U.S.C. 1461 or other NOAA approved state agency] subject to the condition that the designation of the [name of National Estuarine Reserve] is not withdrawn and the property remains part of the federally designated [name of National Estuarine Research Reserve]; and
(2) In the event that the property is no longer included as part of the Reserve, or if the designation of the Reserve of which it is part is withdrawn, then NOAA or its successor agency, after full and reasonable consultation with the State, may exercise the following rights regarding the disposition of the property:
(i) The recipient may retain title after paying the Federal Government an amount computed by applying the Federal percentage of participation in the cost of the original project to the current fair market value of the property;
(ii) If the recipient does not elect to retain title, the Federal Government may either direct the recipient to sell the property and pay the Federal Government an amount computed by applying the Federal percentage of participation in the cost of the original project to the proceeds from the sale (after deducting actual and reasonable selling and repair or renovation expenses, if any, from the sale proceeds), or direct the recipient to transfer title to the Federal Government. If directed to transfer title to the Federal Government, the recipient shall be entitled to compensation computed by applying the recipient's percentage of participation in the cost of the original project to the current fair market value of the property; and
(iii) Fair market value of the property must be determined by an independent appraiser and certified by a responsible official of the state, as provided by Department of Commerce regulations at 15 CFR part 24, and Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition for Federal and Federally assisted programs at 15 CFR part 11.
(f) Upon instruction by NOAA, provisions analogous to those of § 921.21(e) shall be included in the documentation underlying less-then-fee-simple interests acquired in whole or part with Federal funds.
(g) Federal funds or non-Federal matching share funds shall not be spent to acquire a real property interest in which the state will own the land concurrently with another entity unless the property interest has been identified as a part of an acquisition strategy pursuant to § 921.13(7) which has been approved by NOAA prior to the effective date of these regulations.
(h) Prior to submitting the final management plan to NOAA for review and approval, the state shall hold a public meeting to receive comment on the plan in the area affected by the estuarine research reserve. NOAA will publish a notice of the meeting in the
Federal Register
at least 15 days prior to the public meeting. The state shall be responsible for having a similar notice published in the local newspaper(s).

# Subpart D—Reserve Designation and Subsequent Operation
§ 921.30
Designation of National Estuarine Research Reserves.
(a) The Under Secretary may designate an area proposed for designation by the Governor of the state in which it is located, as a National Esturaine Research Reserve if the Under Secretary finds:
(1) The area is a representative estuarine ecosystem that is suitable for long-term research and contributes to the biogeographical and typological balance of the System;
(2) Key land and water areas of the proposed Reserve, as identified in the management plan, are under adequate state control sufficient to provide long-term protection for reserve resources to ensure a stable environment for research;
(3) Designation of the area as a Reserve will serve to enhance public awareness and understanding of estuarine areas, and provide suitable opportunities for public education and interpretation;
(4) A final management plan has been approved by NOAA;
(5) An MOU has been signed between the state and NOAA ensuring a long-term commitment by the state to the effective operation and implementation of the area as a National Estuarine Research Reserve;
(6) All MOU's necessary for reserve management (
i.e.,
with relevant Federal, state, and local agencies and/or private organizations) have been signed; and
(7) The coastal state in which the area is located has complied with the requirements of subpart B.
(b) NOAA will determine whether the designation of a National Estuarine Research Reserve in a state with a federally approved coastal zone management program directly affects the coastal zone. If the designation is found to directly affect the coastal zone, NOAA will make a consistency determination pursuant to § 307(c)(1) of the Act, 16 U.S.C. 1456, and 15 CFR part 930, subpart C. See § 921.4(b). The results of this consistency determination will be published in the
Federal Register
when the notice of designation is published. See § 921.30(c).
(c) NOAA will publish the notice of designation of a National Estuarine Research Reserve in the
Federal Register.
The state shall be responsible for having a similar notice published in the local media.
(d) The term
state control
in § 921.30(a)(3) does not necessarily require that key land and water areas be owned by the state in fee simple. Acquisition of less-than-fee simple interests e.g., conservation easements) and utilization of existing state regulatory measures are encouraged where the state can demonstrate that these interests and measures assure adequate long-term state control consistent with the purposes of the research reserve (see also §§ 921.13(a)(7); 921.21(g)). Should the state later elect to purchase an interest in such lands using NOAA funds, adequate justification as to the need for such acquisition must be provided to NOAA.
§ 921.31
Supplemental acquisition and development awards.
After National Estuarine Research Reserve designation, and as specified in the approved management plan, a coastal state may request a supplemental acquisition and/or development award(s) for acquiring additional property interests identified in the management plan as necessary to strengthen protection of key land and water areas and to enhance long-term protection of the area for research and education, for facility and exhibit construction, for restorative activities identified in the approved management plan, for administrative purposes related to acquisition and/or facility construction and to develop and/or upgrade research, monitoring and education/interpretive programs. Federal financial assistance provided to a National Estuarine Research Reserve for supplemental development costs directly associated with facility construction (
i.e.
, major construction activities) may not exceed 70 percent of the total project cost, except when the financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, in which case the assistance may be used to pay 100
percent of the costs. NOAA must make a specific determination that the construction activity will not be detrimental to the environment. Acquisition awards for the acquisition of lands or waters, or interests therein, for any one reserve may not exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the costs of the lands, waters, and interests therein of $5,000,000, whichever amount is less, except when the financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, in which case the assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of all actual costs of activities carrier out with this assistance, as long as such funds are available. In the case of a biogeographic region (see appendix I) shared by two or more states, each state is eligible independently for Federal financial assistance to establish a separate National Estuarine Research Reserve within their respective portion of the shared biogeographic region. Application procedures are specified in subpart I. Land acquisition must follow the procedures specified in §§ 921.13(a)(7), 921.21(e) and (f) and 921.81.
[58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 12540, Mar. 17, 1997; 63 FR 26717, May 14, 1998]
§ 921.32
Operation and management: Implementation of the management plan.
(a) After the Reserve is formally designated, a coastal state is eligible to receive Federal funds to assist the state in the operation and management of the Reserve including the management of research, monitoring, education, and interpretive programs. The purpose of this Federally funded operation and management phase is to implement the approved final management plan and to take the necessary steps to ensure the continued effective operation of the Reserve.
(b) State operation and management of the Reserves shall be consistent with the mission, and shall further the goals of the National Estuarine Research Reserve program (see § 921.1).
(c) Federal funds are available for the operation and management of the Reserve. Federal funds provided pursuant to this section may not exceed 70 percent of the total cost of operating and managing the Reserve for any one year, except when the financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, in which case the assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of the costs. In the case of a biogeographic region (see Appendix I) shared by two or more states, each state is eligible for Federal financial assistance to establish a separate Reserve within their respective portion of the shared biogeographic region (see § 921.10).
(d) Operation and management funds are subject to the following limitations:
(1) Eligible coastal state agencies may apply for up to the maximum share available per Reserve for that fiscal year. Share amounts will be announced annually by letter from the Sanctuary and Reserves Division to all participating states. This letter will be provided as soon as practicable following approval of the Federal budget for that fiscal year.
(2) No more than ten percent of the total amount (state and Federal shares) of each operation and management award may be used for construction-type activities.
[58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 12541, Mar. 17, 1997]
§ 921.33
Boundary changes, amendments to the management plan, and addition of multiple-site components.
(a) Changes in the boundary of a Reserve and major changes to the final management plan, including state laws or regulations promulgated specifically for the Reserve, may be made only after written approval by NOAA. NOAA may require public notice, including notice in the
Federal Register
and an opportunity for public comment before approving a boundary or management plan change. Changes in the boundary of a Reserve involving the acquisition of properties not listed in the management plan or final EIS require public notice and the opportunity for comment; in certain cases, a categorical exclusion, an environmental assessment and possibly an environmental impact statement may be required.
NOAA will place a notice in the
Federal Register
of any proposed changes in Reserve boundaries or proposed major changes to the final management plan. The state shall be responsible for publishing an equivalent notice in the local media. See also requirements of §§ 921.4(b) and 921.13(a)(11).
(b) As discussed in § 921.10(b), a state may choose to develop a multiple-site National Estuarine Research Reserve after the initial acquisition and development award for a single site has been made. NOAA will publish notice of the proposed new site including an invitation for comments from the public in the
Federal Register.
The state shall be responsible for publishing an equivalent notice in the local newspaper(s). An EIS, if required, shall be prepared in accordance with section § 921.13 and shall include an administrative framework for the multiple-site Reserve and a description of the complementary research and educational programs within the Reserve. If NOAA determines, based on the scope of the project and the issues associated with the additional site(s), that an environmental assessment is sufficient to establish a multiple-site Reserve, then the state shall develop a revised management plan which, concerning the additional component, incorporates each of the elements described in § 921.13(a). The revised management plan shall address goals and objectives for all components of the multi-site Reserve and the additional component's relationship to the original site(s).
(c) The state shall revise the management plan for a Reserve at least every five years, or more often if necessary. Management plan revisions are subject to (a) above.
(d) NOAA will approve boundary changes, amendments to management plans, or the addition of multiple-site components, by notice in the
Federal Register.
If necessary NOAA will revise the designation document (findings) for the site.

# Subpart E—Ongoing Oversight, Performance Evaluation and Withdrawal of Designation
§ 921.40
Ongoing oversight and evaluations of designated National Estuarine Research Reserves.
(a) The Sanctuaries and Reserve Division shall conduct, in accordance with section 312 of the Act and procedures set forth in 15 CFR part 928, ongoing oversight and evaluations of Reserves. Interim sanctions may be imposed in accordance with regulations promulgated under 15 CFR part 928.
(b) The Assistant Administrator may consider the following indicators of non-adherence in determining whether to invoke interim sanctions:
(1) Inadequate implementation of required staff roles in administration, research, education/interpretation, and surveillance and enforcement. Indicators of inadequate implementation could include: No Reserve Manager, or no staff or insufficient staff to carry out the required functions.
(2) Inadequate implementation of the required research plan, including the monitoring design. Indicators of inadequate implementation could include: Not carrying out research or monitoring that is required by the plan, or carrying out research or monitoring that is inconsistent with the plan.
(3) Inadequate implementation of the required education/interpretation plan. Indicators of inadequate implementation could include: Not carrying out education or interpretation that is required by the plan, or carrying out education/interpretation that is inconsistent with the plan.
(4) Inadequate implementation of public access to the Reserve. Indicators of inadequate implementation of public access could include: Not providing necessary access, giving full consideration to the need to keep some areas off limits to the public in order to protect fragile resources.
(5) Inadequate implementation of facility development plan. Indicators of inadequate implementation could include: Not taking action to propose and budget for necessary facilities, or not undertaking necessary construction in a timely manner when funds are available.
(6) Inadequate implementation of acquisition plan. Indicators of inadequate implementation could include: Not pursuing an aggressive acquisition program with all available funds for that purpose, not requesting promptly additional funds when necessary, and evidence that adequate long-term state control has not been established over some core or buffer areas, thus jeopardizing the ability to protect the Reserve site and resources from offsite impacts.
(7) Inadequate implementation of Reserve protection plan. Indicators of inadequate implementation could include: Evidence of non-compliance with Reserve restrictions, insufficient surveillance and enforcement to assure that restrictions on use of the Reserve are adhered to, or evidence that Reserve resources are being damaged or destroyed as a result of the above.
(8) Failure to carry out the terms of the signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the state and NOAA, which establishes a long-term state commitment to maintain and manage the Reserve in accordance with section 315 of the Act. Indicators of failure could include: State action to allow incompatible uses of state-controlled lands or waters in the Reserve, failure of the state to bear its fair share of costs associated with long-term operation and management of the Reserve, or failure to initiate timely updates of the MOU when necessary.
§ 921.41
Withdrawal of designation.
The Assistant Administrator may withdraw designation of an estuarine area as a National Estuarine Research Reserve pursuant to and in accordance with the procedures of section 312 and 315 of the Act and regulations promulgated thereunder.

# Subpart F—Special Research Projects
§ 921.50
General.
(a) To stimulate high quality research within designated National Estuarine Research Reserves, NOAA may provide financial support for research projects which are consistent with the Estuarine Research Guidelines referenced in § 921.51. Research awards may be awarded under this subpart to only those designated Reserves with approved final management plans. Although research may be conducted within the immediate watershed of the Reserve, the majority of research activities of any single research project funded under this subpart may be conducted within Reserve boundaries. Funds provided under this subpart are primarily used to support management-related research projects that will enhance scientific understanding of the Reserve ecosystem, provide information needed by Reserve management and coastal management decision-makers, and improve public awareness and understanding of estuarine ecosystems and estuarine management issues. Special research projects may be oriented to specific Reserves; however, research projects that would benefit more than one Reserve in the National Estuarine Reserve Research System are encouraged.
(b) Funds provided under this subpart are available on a competitive basis to any coastal state or qualified public or private person. A notice of available funds will be published in the
Federal Register.
Special research project funds are provided in addition to any other funds available to a coastal state under the Act. Federal funds provided under this subpart may not exceed 70 percent of the total cost of the project, consistent with § 921.81(e)(4) (“allowable costs”), except when the financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, in which case the assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of the costs.
[58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 12541, Mar. 17, 1997]
§ 921.51
Estuarine research guidelines.
(a) Research within the National Estuarine Research Reserve System shall be conducted in a manner consistent with Estuarine Research Guidelines developed by NOAA.
(b) A summary of the Estuarine Research Guidelines is published in the
Federal Register
as a part of the notice of available funds discussed in § 921.50(c).
(c) The Estuarine Research Guidelines are reviewed annually by NOAA. This review will include an opportunity
for comment by the estuarine research community.
§ 921.52
Promotion and coordination of estuarine research.
(a) NOAA will promote and coordinate the use of the National Estuarine Research Reserve System for research purposes.
(b) NOAA will, in conducting or supporting estuarine research other than that authorized under section 315 of the Act, give priority consideration to research that make use of the National Estuarine Research Reserve System.
(c) NOAA will consult with other Federal and state agencies to promote use of one or more research reserves within the National Estuarine Research Reserve System when such agencies conduct estuarine research.

# Subpart G—Special Monitoring Projects
§ 921.60
General.
(a) To provide a systematic basis for developing a high quality estuarine resource and ecosystem information base for National Estuarine Research Reserves and, as a result, for the System, NOAA may provide financial support for basic monitoring programs as part of operations and management under § 921.32. Monitoring funds are used to support three major phases of a monitoring program:
(1) Studies necessary to collect data for a comprehensive site description/characterization;
(2) Development of a site profile; and
(3) Formulation and implementation of a monitoring program.
(b) Additional monitoring funds may be available on a competitive basis to the state agency responsible for Reserve management or a qualified public or private person or entity. However, if the applicant is other than the managing entity of a Reserve that applicant must submit as a part of the application a letter from the Reserve manager indicating formal support of the application by the managing entity of the Reserve. Funds provided under this subpart for special monitoring projects are provided in addition to any other funds available to a coastal state under the Act. Federal funds provided under this subpart may not exceed 70 percent of the total cost of the project, consistent with § 921.81(e)(4) (“allowable costs”), except when the financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, in which case the assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of the costs.
(c) Monitoring projects funded under this subpart must focus on the resources within the boundaries of the Reserve and must be consistent with the applicable sections of the Estuarine Research Guidelines referenced in § 921.51. Portions of the project may occur within the immediate watershed of the Reserve beyond the site boundaries. However, the monitoring proposal must demonstrate why this is necessary for the success of the project.
[58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 12541, Mar. 17, 1997]

# Subpart H—Special Interpretation and Education Projects
§ 921.70
General.
(a) To stimulate the development of innovative or creative interpretive and educational projects and materials to enhance public awareness and understanding of estuarine areas, NOAA may fund special interpretive and educational projects in addition to those activities provided for in operations and management under § 921.32. Special interpretive and educational awards may be awarded under this subpart to only those designated Reserves with approved final management plans.
(b) Funds provided under this subpart may be available on a competitive basis to any state agency. However, if the applicant is other than the managing entity of a Reserve, that applicant must submit as a part of the application a letter from the Reserve manager indicating formal support of the application by the managing entity of the Reserve. These funds are provided in addition to any other funds available to a coastal state under the Act. Federal funds provided under this subpart may not exceed 70 percent of the total cost of the project, consistent with § 921.81(e)(4) (“allowable costs”),
except when the financial assistance is provided from amounts recovered as a result of damage to natural resources located in the coastal zone, in which case the assistance may be used to pay 100 percent of the costs.
(c) Applicants for education/interpretive projects that NOAA determines benefit the entire National Estuarine Research Reserve System may receive Federal assistance of up to 100% of project costs.
[58 FR 38215, July 15, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 12541, Mar. 17, 1997]

# Subpart I—General Financial Assistance Provisions
§ 921.80
Application information.
(a) Only a coastal state may apply for Federal financial assistance awards for preacquisition, acquisition and development, operation and management, and special education and interpretation projects under subpart H. Any coastal state or public or private person may apply for Federal financial assistance awards for special estuarine research or monitoring projects under subpart G. The announcement of opportunities to conduct research in the System appears on an annual basis in the
Federal Register.
If a state is participating in the national Coastal Zone Management Program, the applicant for an award under section 315 of the Act shall notify the state coastal management agency regarding the application.
(b) An original and two copies of the formal application must be submitted at least 120 working days prior to the proposed beginning of the project to the following address: Sanctuaries and Reserves Division Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 1825 Connecticut Avenue, NW., suite 714, Washington, DC 20235. Application for Federal Assistance Standard Form 424 (Non-construction Program) constitutes the formal application for site selection, post-site selection, operation and management, research, and education and interpretive awards. The Application for Federal Financial Assistance Standard Form 424 (Construction Program) constitutes the formal application for land acquisition and development awards. The application must be accompanied by the information required in subpart B (predesignation), subpart C and § 921.31 (acquisition and development), and § 921.32 (operation and management) as applicable. Applications for development awards for construction projects, or restorative activities involving construction, must include a preliminary engineering report, a detailed construction plan, a site plan, a budget and categorical exclusion check list or environmental assessment. All applications must contain back up data for budget estimates (Federal and non-Federal shares), and evidence that the application complies with the Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.” In addition, applications for acquisition and development awards must contain:
(1) State Historic Preservation Office comments;
(2) Written approval from NOAA of the draft management plan for initial acquisition and development award(s); and
(3) A preliminary engineering report for construction activities.
§ 921.81
Allowable costs.
(a) Allowable costs will be determined in accordance with applicable OMB Circulars and guidance for Federal financial assistance, the financial assistant agreement, these regulations, and other Department of Commerce and NOAA directives. The term “costs” applies to both the Federal and non-Federal shares.
(b) Costs claimed as charges to the award must be reasonable, beneficial and necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the financial assistance award and must be incurred during the award period.
(c) Costs must not be allocable to or included as a cost of any other Federally-financed program in either the current or a prior award period.
(d) General guidelines for the non-Federal share are contained in Department of Commerce Regulations at 15 CFR part 24 and OMB Circular A-110.
Copies of Circular A-110 can be obtained from the Sanctuaries and Reserves Division; 1825 Connecticut Avenue, NW., suite 714; Washington, DC 20235. The following may be used in satisfying the matching requirement:
(1)
Site selection and post site selection awards.
Cash and in-kind contributions (value of goods and services directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to this part of the project) are allowable. Land may not be used as match.
(2)
Acquisition and development awards.
Cash and in-kind contributions are allowable. In general, the fair market value of lands to be included within the Reserve boundaries and acquired pursuant to the Act, with other than Federal funds, may be used as match. However, the fair market value of real property allowable as match is limited to the fair market value of a real property interest equivalent to, or required to attain, the level of control over such land(s) identified by the state and approved by the Federal Government as that necessary for the protection and management of the National Estuarine Research Reserve. Appraisals must be performed according to Federal appraisal standards as detailed in Department of Commerce regulations at 15 CFR part 24 and the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition for Federal land Federally assisted programs in 15 CFR part 11. The fair market value of privately donated land, at the time of donation, as established by an independent appraiser and certified by a responsible official of the state, pursuant to 15 CFR part 11, may also be used as match. Land, including submerged lands already in the state's possession, may be used as match to establish a National Estuarine Research Reserve. The value of match for these state lands will be calculated by determining the value of the benefits foregone by the state, in the use of the land, as a result of new restrictions that may be imposed by Reserve designation. The appraisal of the benefits foregone must be made by an independent appraiser in accordance with Federal appraisal standards pursuant to 15 CFR part 24 and 15 CFR part 11. A state may initially use as match land valued at greater than the Federal share of the acquisition and development award. The value in excess of the amount required as match for the initial award may be used to match subsequent supplemental acquisition and development awards for the National Estuarine Research Reserve (see also § 921.20). Costs related to land acquisition, such as appraisals, legal fees and surveys, may also be used as match.
(3)
Operation and management awards.
Generally, cash and in-kind contributions (directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to operations and management), except land, are allowable.
(4)
Research, monitoring, education and interpretive awards.
Cash and in-kind contributions (directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to the scope of work), except land, are allowable.
§ 921.82
Amendments to financial assistance awards.
Actions requiring an amendment to the financial assistance award, such as a request for additional Federal funds, revisions of the approved project budget or original scope of work, or extension of the performance period must be submitted to NOAA on Standard Form 424 and approved in writing.
Pt. 921, App. I

# Appendix I to Part 921—Biogeographic Classification Scheme

# Acadian
1. Northern of Maine (Eastport to the Sheepscot River.)
2. Southern Gulf of Maine (Sheepscot River to Cape Cod.)

# Virginian
3. Southern New England (Cape Cod to Sandy Hook.)
4. Middle Atlantic (Sandy Hook to Cape Hatteras.)
5. Chesapeake Bay.

# Carolinian
6. North Carolinas (Cape Hatteras to Santee River.)
7. South Atlantic (Santee River to St. John's River.)
8. East Florida (St. John's River to Cape Canaveral.)

# West Indian
9. Caribbean (Cape Canaveral to Ft. Jefferson and south.)
10. West Florida (Ft. Jefferson to Cedar Key.)

# Louisianian
11. Panhandle Coast (Cedar Key to Mobile Bay.)
12. Mississippi Delta (Mobile Bay to Galveston.)
13. Western Gulf (Galveston to Mexican border.)

# Californian
14. Southern California (Mexican border to Point Conception.)
15. Central California (Point Conception to Cape Mendocino.)
16. San Francisco Bay.

# Columbian
17. Middle Pacific (Cape Mendocino to the Columbia River.)
18. Washington Coast (Columbia River to Vancouver Island.)
19. Puget Sound.

# Great Lakes
20. Lake Superior (including St. Mary's River.)
21. Lakes Michigan and Huron (including Straits of Mackinac, St. Clair River, and Lake St. Clair.)
22. Lake Erie (including Detroit River and Niagara Falls.)
23. Lake Ontario (including St. Lawrence River.)

# Fjord
24. Southern Alaska (Prince of Wales Island to Cook Inlet.)
25. Aleutian Island (Cook Inlet Bristol Bay.)

# Sub-Arctic
26. Northern Alaska (Bristol Bay to Damarcation Point.)

# Insular
27. Hawaiian Islands.
28. Western Pacific Island.
29. Eastern Pacific Island.
EC12SE91.000
Pt. 921, App. II

# Appendix II to Part 921—Typology of National Estuarine Research Reserves
This typology system reflects significant differences in estuarine characteristics that are not necessarily related to regional location. The purpose of this type of classification is to maximize ecosystem variety in the selection of national estuarine reserves. Priority will be given to important ecosystem types as yet unrepresented in the reserve system. It should be noted that any one site may represent several ecosystem types or physical characteristics.

# Class I—Ecosystem Types

# Group I—Shorelands
A. Maritime Forest-Woodland.
That have developed under the influence of salt spray. It can be found on coastal uplands or recent features such as barrier islands and beaches, and may be divided into the following biomes:
1. Northern coniferous forest biome: This is an area of predominantly evergreens such as the sitka spruce (Picea), grand fir (Abies), and white cedar (Thuja), with poor development of the shrub and herb leyera, but high annual productivity and pronounced seasonal periodicity.
2. Moist temperate (Mesothermal) coniferous forest biome: Found along the west coast of North America from California to Alaska, this area is dominated by conifers, has relatively small seasonal range, high humidity with rainfall ranging from 30 to 150 inches, and a well-developed understory of vegetation with an abundance of mosses and other moisture-tolerant plants.
3. Temperate deciduous forest biome: This biome is characterized by abundant, evenly distributed rainfall, moderate temperatures which exhibit a distinct seasonal pattern,
well-developed soil biota and herb and shrub layers, and numerous plants which produce pulpy fruits and nuts. A distinct subdivision of this biome is the pine edible forest of the southeastern coastal plain, in which only a small portion of the area is occupied by climax vegetation, although it has large areas covered by edaphic climax pines.
4. Broad-leaved evergreen subtropical forest biome: The main characteristic of this biome is high moisture with less pronounced differences between winter and summer. Examples are the hammocks of Florida and the live oak forests of the Gulf and South Atlantic coasts. Floral dominants include pines, magnolias, bays, hollies, wild tamarine, strangler fig, gumbo limbo, and palms.
B. Coast shrublands.
This is a transitional area between the coastal grasslands and woodlands and is characterized by woody species with multiple stems and a few centimeters to several meters above the ground developing under the influence of salt spray and occasional sand burial. This includes thickets, scrub, scrub savanna, heathlands, and coastal chaparral. There is a great variety of shrubland vegetation exhibiting regional specificity:
1. Northern areas: Characterized by Hudsonia, various erinaceous species, and thickets of Myricu, prunus, and Rosa.
2. Southeast areas: Floral dominants include Myrica, Baccharis, and Iles.
3. Western areas: Adenostoma, arcotyphylos, and eucalyptus are the dominant floral species.
C. Coastal grasslands.
This area, which possesses sand dunes and coastal flats, has low rainfall (10 to 30 inches per year) and large amounts of humus in the soil. Ecological succession is slow, resulting in the presence of a number of seral stages of community development. Dominant vegetation includes mid-grasses (5 to 8 feet tall), such as Spartina, and trees such as willow (Salix sp.), cherry (Prunus sp.), and cottonwood (Pupulus deltoides.) This area is divided into four regions with the following typical strand vegetation:
1. Arctic/Boreal: Elymus;
2. Northeast/West: Ammophla;
3. Southeast Gulf: Uniola; and
4. Mid-Atlantic/Gulf: Spartina patens.
D. Coastal tundra.
This ecosystem, which is found along the Arctic and Boreal coasts of North America, is characterized by low temperatures, a short growing season, and some permafrost, producing a low, treeless mat community made up of mosses, lichens, heath, shrubs, grasses, sedges, rushes, and herbaceous and dwarf woody plants. Common species include arctic/alpine plants such as Empetrum nigrum and Betula nana, the lichens Cetraria and Cladonia, and herbaceous plants such as Potentilla tridentata and Rubus chamaemorus. Common species on the coastal beach ridges of the high arctic desert include Bryas intergrifolia and Saxifrage oppositifolia. This area can be divided into two main subdivisions:
1. Low tundra: Characterized by a thick, spongy mat of living and undecayed vegetation, often with water and dotted with ponds when not frozen; and
2. High Tundra: A bare area except for a scanty growth of lichens and grasses, with underlaying ice wedges forming raised polygonal areas.
E. Coastal cliffs.
This ecosystem is an important nesting site for many sea and shore birds. It consists of communities of herbaceous, graminoid, or low woody plants (shrubs, heath, etc.) on the top or along rocky faces exposed to salt spray. There is a diversity of plant species including mosses, lichens, liverworts, and “higher” plant representatives.

# Group II—Transition Areas
A. Coastal marshes.
These are wetland areas dominated by grasses (Poacea), sedges (Cyperaceae), rushes (Juncaceae), cattails (Typhaceae), and other graminoid species and is subject to periodic flooding by either salt or freshwater. This ecosystem may be subdivided into: (a) Tidal, which is periodically flooded by either salt or brackish water; (b) nontidal (freshwater); or (c) tidal freshwater. These are essential habitats for many important estuarine species of fish and invertebrates as well as shorebirds and waterfowl and serve important roles in shore stabilization, flood control, water purification, and nutrient transport and storage.
B. Coastal swamps.
These are wet lowland areas that support mosses and shrubs together with large trees such as cypress or gum.
C. Coastal mangroves.
This ecosystem experiences regular flooding on either a daily, monthly, or seasonal basis, has low wave action, and is dominated by a variety of salt-tolerant trees, such as the red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle), black mangrove (Avicennia Nitida), and the white mangrove (Laguncularia racemosa.) It is also an important habitat for large populations of fish, invertebrates, and birds. This type of ecosystem can be found from central Florida to extreme south Texas to the islands of the Western Pacific.
D. Intertidal beaches.
This ecosystem has a distinct biota of microscopic animals, bacteria, and unicellular algae along with macroscopic crustaceans, mollusks, and worms with a detritus-based nutrient cycle. This area also includes the driftline communities found at high tide levels on the beach. The dominant organisms in this ecosystem include crustaceans such as the mole crab (Emerita), amphipods (Gammeridae), ghost crabs (Ocypode), and bivalve mollusks such
as the coquina (Donax) and surf clams (Spisula and Mactra.)
E. Intertidal mud and sand flats.
These areas are composed of unconsolidated, high organic content sediments that function as a short-term storage area for nutrients and organic carbons. Macrophytes are nearly absent in this ecosystem, although it may be heavily colonized by benthic diatoms, dinoflaggellates, filamintous blue-green and green algae, and chaemosynthetic purple sulfur bacteria. This system may support a considerable population of gastropods, bivalves, and polychaetes, and may serve as a feeding area for a variety of fish and wading birds. In sand, the dominant fauna include the wedge shell Donax, the scallop Pecten, tellin shells Tellina, the heart urchin Echinocardium, the lug worm Arenicola, sand dollar Dendraster, and the sea pansy Renilla. In mud, faunal dominants adapted to low oxygen levels include the terebellid Amphitrite, the boring clam Playdon, the deep sea scallop Placopecten, the Quahog Mercenaria, the echiurid worm Urechis, the mud snail Nassarius, and the sea cucumber Thyone.
F. Intertidal algal beds.
These are hard substrates along the marine edge that are dominated by macroscopic algae, usually thalloid, but also filamentous or unicellular in growth form. This also includes the rocky coast tidepools that fall within the intertidal zone. Dominant fauna of these areas are barnacles, mussels, periwinkles, anemones, and chitons. Three regions are apparent:
1. Northern latitude rocky shores: It is in this region that the community structure is best developed. The dominant algal species include Chondrus at the low tide level, Fucus and Ascophylium at the mid-tidal level, and Laminaria and other kelplike algae just beyond the intertidal, although they can be exposed at extremely low tides or found in very deep tidepools.
2. Southern latitudes: The communities in this region are reduced in comparison to those of the northern latitudes and possesses algae consisting mostly of single-celled or filamentour green, blue-green, and red algae, and small thalloid brown algae.
3. Tropical and subtropical latitudes: The intertidal in this region is very reduced and contains numerous calcareous algae such as Porolithon and Lithothamnion, as well and green algae with calcareous particles such as Halimeda, and numerous other green, red, and brown algae.

# Group III—Submerged Bottoms
A. Subtidal hardbottoms.
This system is characterized by a consolidated layer of solid rock or large pieces of rock (neither of biotic origin) and is found in association with geomorphological features such as submarine canyons and fjords and is usually covered with assemblages of sponges, sea fans, bivalves, hard corals, tunicates, and other attached organisms. A significant feature of estuaries in many parts of the world is the oyster reef, a type of subtidal hardbottom. Composed of assemblages of organisms (usually bivalves), it is usually found near an estuary's mouth in a zone of moderate wave action, salt content, and turbidity. If light levels are sufficient, a covering of microscopic and attached macroscopic algae, such as keep, may also be found.
B. Subtidal softbottoms.
Major characteristics of this ecosystem are an unconsolidated layer of fine particles of silt, sand, clay, and gravel, high hydrogen sulfide levels, and anaerobic conditions often existing below the surface. Macrophytes are either sparse or absent, although a layer of benthic microalgae may be present if light levels are sufficient. The faunal community is dominated by a diverse population of deposit feeders including polychaetes, bivalves, and burrowing crustaceans.
C. Subtidal plants.
This system is found in relatively shallow water (less than 8 to 10 meters) below mean low tide. It is an area of extremely high primary production that provides food and refuge for a diversity of faunal groups, especially juvenile and adult fish, and in some regions, manatees and sea turtles. Along the North Atlantic and Pacific coasts, the seagrass Zostera marina predominates. In the South Atlantic and Gulf coast areas, Thalassia and Diplanthera predominate. The grasses in both areas support a number of epiphytic organisms.

# Class II—Physical Characteristics

# Group I—Geologic
A. Basin type.
Coastal water basins occur in a variety of shapes, sizes, depths, and appearances. The eight basic types discussed below will cover most of the cases:
1. Exposed coast: Solid rock formations or heavy sand deposits characterize exposed ocean shore fronts, which are subject to the full force of ocean storms. The sand beaches are very resilient, although the dunes lying just behind the beaches are fragile and easily damaged. The dunes serve as a sand storage area making them chief stabilizers of the ocean shorefront.
2. Sheltered coast: Sand or coral barriers, built up by natural forces, provide sheltered areas inside a bar or reef where the ecosystem takes on many characteristics of confined waters-abundant marine grasses, shellfish, and juvenile fish. Water movement is reduced, with the consequent effects pollution being more severe in this area than in exposed coastal areas.
3. Bay: Bays are larger confined bodies of water that are open to the sea and receive strong tidal flow. When stratification is pronounced the flushing action is augmented by
river discharge. Bays vary in size and in type of shorefront.
4. Embayment: A confined coastal water body with narrow, restricted inlets and with a significant freshwater inflow can be classified as an embayment. These areas have more restricted inlets than bays, are usually smaller and shallower, have low tidal action, and are subject to sedimentation.
5. Tidal river: The lower reach of a coastal river is referred to as a tidal river. The coastal water segment extends from the sea or estuary into which the river discharges to a point as far upstream as there is significant salt content in the water, forming a salt front. A combination of tidal action and freshwater outflow makes tidal rivers well-flushed. The tidal river basin may be a simple channel or a complex of tributaries, small associated embayments, marshfronts, tidal flats, and a variety of others.
6. Lagoon: Lagoons are confined coastal bodies of water with restricted inlets to the sea and without significant freshwater inflow. Water circulation is limited, resulting in a poorly flushed, relatively stagnant body of water. Sedimentation is rapid with a great potential for basin shoaling. Shores are often gently sloping and marshy.
7. Perched coastal wetlands: Unique to Pacific islands, this wetland type found above sea level in volcanic crater remnants forms as a result of poor drainage characteristics of the crater rather than from sedimentation. Floral assemblages exhibit distinct zonation while the faunal constituents may include freshwater, brackish, and/or marine species.
Example:
Aunu's Island, American Samoa.
8. Anchialine systems: These small coastal exposures of brackish water form in lava depressions or elevated fossil reefs have only a subsurface connection in the ocean, but show tidal fluctuations. Differing from true estuaries in having no surface continuity with streams or ocean, this system is characterized by a distinct biotic community dominated by benthis algae such as Rhizoclonium, the mineral encrusting Schiuzothrix, and the vascular plant Ruppia maritima. Characteristic fauna which exhibit a high degree of endemicity, include the mollusks Theosoxus neglectus and Tcariosus. Although found throughout the world, the high islands of the Pacific are the only areas within the U.S. where this system can be found.
B. Basin structure.
Estuary basins may result from the drowning of a river valley (coastal plains estuary), the drowning of a glacial valley (fjord), the occurrence of an offshore barrier (bar-bounded estuary), some tectonic process (tectonic estuary), or volcanic activity (volcanic estuary).
1. Coastal plains estuary: Where a drowned valley consists mainly of a single channel, the form of the basin is fairly regular forming a simple coastal plains estuary. When a channel is flooded with numerous tributaries an irregular estuary results. Many estuaries of the eastern United States are of this type.
2. Fjord: Estuaries that form in elongated steep headlands that alternate with deep U-shaped valleys resulting from glacial scouring are called fjords. They generally possess rocky floors or very thin veneers of sediment, with deposition generally being restricted to the head where the main river enters. Compared to total fjord volume river discharge is small. But many fjords have restricted tidal ranges at their mouths due to sills, or upreaching sections of the bottom which limit free movement of water, often making river flow large with respect to the tidal prism. The deepest portions are in the upstream reaches, where maximum depths can range from 800m to 1200m while sill depths usually range from 40m to 150m.
3. Bar-bounded estuary: These result from the development of an offshore barrier such as a beach strand, a line of barrier islands, reef formations a line of moraine debris, or the subsiding remnants of a deltaic lobe. The basin is often partially exposed at low tide and is enclosed by a chain of offshore bars of barrier islands broken at intervals by inlets. These bars may be either deposited offshore or may be coastal dunes that have become isolated by recent seal level rises.
4. Tectonic estuary: These are coastal indentures that have formed through tectonic processes such as slippage along a fault line (San Francisco Bay), folding or movement of the earth's bedrock often with a large inflow of freshwater.
5. Volcanic estuary: These coastal bodies of open water, a result of volcanic processes are depressions or craters that have direct and/or subsurface connections with the ocean and may or may not have surface continuity with streams. These formations are unique to island areas of volcanic orgin.
C. Inlet type.
Inlets in various forms are an integral part of the estuarine environment as they regulate to a certain extent, the velocity and magnitude of tidal exchange, the degree of mixing, and volume of discharge to the sea.
1. Unrestricted: An estuary with a wide unrestricted inlet typically has slow currents, no significant turbulence, and receives the full effect of ocean waves and local disturbances which serve to modify the shoreline. These estuaries are partially mixed, as the open mouth permits the incursion of marine waters to considerable distances upstream, depending on the tidal amplitude and stream gradient.
2. Restricted: Restrictions of estuaries can exist in many forms: Bars, barrier islands, spits, sills, and more. Restricted inlets result in decreased circulation, more pronounced longitudinal and vertical salinity gradients, and more rapid sedimentation. However, if
the estuary mouth is restricted by depositional features or land closures, the incoming tide may be held back until it suddenly breaks forth into the basin as a tidal wave, or bore. Such currents exert profound effects on the nature of the subtrate, turbidity, and biota of the estuary.
3. Permanent: Permanent inlets are usually opposite the mouths of major rivers and permit river water to flow into the sea.
4. Temporary (Intermittent): Temporary inlets are formed by storms and frequently shift position, depending on tidal flow, the depth of the sea, and sound waters, the frequency of storms, and the amount of littoral transport.
D. Bottom composition.
The bottom composition of estuaries attests to the vigorous, rapid, and complex sedimentation processes characteristic of most coastal regions with low relief. Sediments are derived through the hydrologic processes of erosion, transport, and deposition carried on by the sea and the stream.
1. Sand: Near estuary mouths, where the predominating forces of the sea build spits or other depositional features, the shore and substrates of the estuary are sandy. The bottom sediments in this area are usually coarse, with a graduation toward finer particles in the head region and other zones of reduced flow, fine silty sands are deposited. Sand deposition occurs only in wider or deeper regions where velocity is reduced.
2. Mud: At the base level of a stream near its mouth, the bottom is typically composed of loose muds, silts, and organic detritus as a result of erosion and transport from the upper stream reaches and organic decomposition. Just inside the estuary entrance, the bottom contains considerable quantities of sand and mud, which support a rich fauna. Mud flats, commonly built up in estuarine basins, are composed of loose, coarse, and fine mud and sand, often dividing the original channel.
3. Rock: Rocks usually occur in areas where the stream runs rapidly over a steep gradient with its coarse materials being derived from the higher elevations where the stream slope is greater. The larger fragments are usually found in shallow areas near the stream mouth.
4. Oyster shell: Throughout a major portion of the world, the oyster reef is one of the most significant features of estuaries, usually being found near the mouth of the estuary in a zone of moderate wave action, salt content, and turbidity. It is often a major factor in modifying estuarine current systems and sedimentation, and may occur as an elongated island or peninsula oriented across the main current, or may develop parallel to the direction of the current.

# Group II—Hydrographic
A. Circulation.
Circulation patterns are the result of combined influences of freshwater inflow, tidal action, wind and oceanic forces, and serve many functions: Nutrient transport, plankton dispersal, ecosystem flushing, salinity control, water mixing, and more.
1. Stratified: This is typical of estuaries with a strong freshwater influx and is commonly found in bays formed from “drowned” river valleys, fjords, and other deep basins. There is a net movement of freshwater outward at the top layer and saltwater at the bottom layer, resulting in a net outward transport of surface organisms and net inward transport of bottom organisms.
2. Non-stratified: Estuaries of this type are found where water movement is sluggish and flushing rate is low, although there may be sufficient circulation to provide the basis for a high carrying capacity. This is common to shallow embayments and bays lacking a good supply of freshwater from land drainage.
3. Lagoonal: An estuary of this type is characterized by low rates of water movement resulting from a lack of significant freshwater influx and a lack of strong tidal exchange because of the typically narrow inlet connecting the lagoon to the sea. Circulation whose major driving force is wind, is the major limiting factor in biological productivity within lagoons.
B. Tides.
This is the most important ecological factor in an estuary as it affects water exchange and its vertical range determines the extent of tidal flats which may be exposed and submerged with each tidal cycle. Tidal action against the volume of river water discharged into an estuary results in a complex system whose properties vary according to estuary structure as well as the magnitude of river flow and tidal range. Tides are usually described in terms of the cycle and their relative heights. In the United States, tide height is reckoned on the basis of average low tide, which is referred to as datum. The tides, although complex, fall into three main categories:
1. Diurnal: This refers to a daily change in water level that can be observed along the shoreline. There is one high tide and one low tide per day.
2. Semidiurnal: This refers to a twice daily rise and fall in water that can be observed along the shoreline.
3. Wind/Storm tides: This refers to fluctuations in water elevation to wind and storm events, where influence of lunar tides is less.
C. Freshwater.
According to nearly all the definitions advanced, it is inherent that all estuaries need freshwater, which is drained from the land and measurably dilutes seawater to create a brackish condition. Freshwater enters an estuary as runoff from the
land either from a surface and/or subsurface source.
1. Surface water: This is water flowing over the ground in the form of streams. Local variation in runoff is dependent upon the nature of the soil (porosity and solubility), degree of surface slope, vegetational type and development, local climatic conditions, and volume and intensity of precipitation.
2. Subsurface water: This refers to the precipitation that has been absorbed by the soil and stored below the surface. The distribution of subsurface water depends on local climate, topography, and the porosity and permeability of the underlying soils and rocks. There are two main subtypes of surface water:
a. Vadose water: This is water in the soil above the water table. Its volume with respect to the soil is subject to considerable fluctuation.
b. Groundwater: This is water contained in the rocks below the water table, is usually of more uniform volume than vadose water, and generally follows the topographic relief of the land being high hills and sloping into valleys.

# Group III—Chemical
A. Salinity.
This reflects a complex mixture of salts, the most abundant being sodium chloride, and is a very critical factor in the distribution and maintenance of many estuarine organisms. Based on salinity, there are two basic estuarine types and eight different salinity zones (expressed in parts per thousand-ppt.)
1. Positive estuary: This is an estuary in which the freshwater influx is sufficient to maintain mixing, resulting in a pattern of increasing salinity toward the estuary mouth. It is characterized by low oxygen concentration in the deeper waters and considerable organic content in bottom sediments.
2. Negative estuary: This is found in particularly arid regions, where estuary evaporation may exceed freshwater inflow, resulting in increased salinity in the upper part of the basin, especially if the estuary mouth is restricted so that tidal flow is inhibited. These are typically very salty (hyperhaline), moderately oxygenated at depth, and possess bottom sediments that are poor in organic content.
3. Salinity zones (expressed in ppt):
a. Hyperhaline—greater than 40 ppt.
b. Euhaline—40 ppt to 30 ppt.
c. Mixhaline—30 ppt to 0.5 ppt.
(1) Mixoeuhaline—greater than 30 ppt but less than the adjacent euhaline sea.
(2) Polyhaline—30 ppt to 18 ppt.
(3) Mesohaline—18 ppt to 5 ppt.
(4) Oligohaline—5 ppt to 0.5 ppt.
d. Limnetic: Less than 0.5 ppt.
B. pH Regime:
This is indicative of the mineral richness of estuarine waters and falls into three main categories:
1. Acid: Waters with a pH of less than 5.5.
2. Circumneutral: A condition where the pH ranges from 5.5 to 7.4.
3. Alkaline: Waters with a pH greater than 7.4.
Pt. 922

# PART 922—NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Regulations of General Applicability
Sec.
922.1
Purposes and applicability of the regulations.
922.2
Mission, goals, and special policies.
922.3
Issuance of regulations for fishing.
922.4
Boundaries.
922.5
Allowed activities.
922.6
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.7
Emergency regulations.
922.8
Penalties.
922.9
Response costs and damages.
922.10
Pre-existing authorizations or rights and certifications of pre-existing authorizations or rights.
922.11
Definitions.
922.12
Sanctuary nomination process.
922.13
Selection of nominated areas for national marine sanctuary designation.
Subparts B-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—National Marine Sanctuary Permitting
922.30
National Marine Sanctuary general permits.
922.31
National Marine Sanctuary special use permits.
922.32
Application requirements and procedures.
922.33
Review procedures and evaluation.
922.34
Permit amendments.
922.35
Special use permit fees.
922.36
National Marine Sanctuary authorizations.
922.37
Appeals of permitting decisions.
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Monitor National Marine Sanctuary
922.60
Boundary.
922.61
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.62
Permit procedures.

# Subpart G—Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary
922.70
Boundary.
922.71
Definitions.
922.72
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Sanctuary-wide.
922.73
Additional prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—marine reserves and marine conservation area.
922.74
Permit procedures.
Appendix A to Subpart G of Part 922—Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Appendix B to Subpart G of Part 922—Marine Reserve Boundaries
Appendix C to Subpart G of Part 922—Marine Conservation Area Boundary

# Subpart H—Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary
922.80
Boundary.
922.81
Definitions.
922.82
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.83
Permit procedures and issuance criteria.
922.84
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
922.85
Review of State permits and leases for certain aquaculture projects.
Appendix A to Subpart H of Part 922—Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Appendix B to Subpart H of Part 922—No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zones in Tomales Bay
Appendix C to Subpart H of Part 922—Northern Extent of Tomales Bay
Appendix D to Subpart H of Part 922—Special Wildlife Protection Zones within the Sanctuary
Appendix E to Subpart H of Part 922—Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zones in the Sanctuary
Appendix F to Subpart H of Part 922—White Shark Approach Prohibition Zones in the Sanctuary
Appendix G to Subpart H of Part 922—Designated Area for Certain United States Coast Guard Discharges

# Subpart I—Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary
922.90
Boundary.
922.91
Definitions.
922.92
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Sanctuary-wide.
922.93
Permit procedures and criteria.
922.94
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Research area.
Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 922—Boundary Coordinates for the Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary Research Area

# Subpart J—National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa
922.100
Scope of regulations.
922.101
Boundary.
922.102
Definitions.
922.103
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Sanctuary-wide.
922.104
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Sanctuary-wide except in the Muliāva Unit.
922.105
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Unit-specific.
922.106
Management and enforcement.
922.107
Permit procedures and criteria.
Appendix to Subpart J of Part 922—American Samoa National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates

# Subpart K—Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary
922.110
Boundary.
922.111
[Reserved]
922.112
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.113
Permit procedures and issuance criteria.
Appendix A to Subpart K of Part 922—Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Appendix B to Subpart K of Part 922—Line Representing the 50-Fathom Isobath Surrounding Cordell Bank
Appendix C to Subpart K of Part 922—Designated Area for Certain United States Coast Guard Discharges

# Subpart L—Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary
922.120
Boundary.
922.121
Definitions.
922.122
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.123
Permit procedures.
Appendix A to Subpart L of Part 922—Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Appendix B to Subpart L of Part 922—Coordinates for the Department of the Interior Topographic Lease Stipulations for OCS Lease Sale 171

# Subpart M—Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary
922.130
Boundary.
922.131
Definitions.
922.132
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.133
Permit procedures and criteria.
922.134
Review of certain State permits and leases.
Appendix A to Subpart M of Part 922—Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Appendix B to Subpart M of Part 922—Zones Within the Sanctuary Where Overflights Below 1000 Feet Are Prohibited
Appendix C to Subpart M of Part 922—Dredged Material Disposal Sites Within the Sanctuary
Appendix D to Subpart M of Part 922—Dredged Material Disposal Sites Adjacent to the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary
Appendix E to Subpart M of Part 922—Motorized Personal Watercraft Zones and Access Routes Within the Sanctuary
Appendix F to Subpart M of Part 922—Davidson Seamount Management Zone

# Subpart N—Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary
922.140
Boundary.
922.141
Definitions.
922.142
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.143
Permit procedures and criteria.
Appendix A to Subpart N of Part 922—Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates

# Subpart O—Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary
922.150
Boundary.
922.151
Definitions.
922.152
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.153
Permit procedures and criteria.
922.154
Consultation with the State of Washington, affected Indian tribes, and adjacent county governments.
Appendix A to Subpart O of Part 922—Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates

# Subpart P—Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary
922.160
Purpose.
922.161
Boundary.
922.162
Definitions.
922.163
Prohibited activities—Sanctuary-wide.
922.164
Additional activity regulations by Sanctuary area.
922.165
Emergency regulations.
922.166
Permits other than for access to the Tortugas Ecological Reserve—application procedures and issuance criteria.
922.167
Permits for access to the Tortugas Ecological Reserve.
922.168
[Reserved]
Appendix I to Subpart P of Part 922—Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Appendix II to Subpart P of Part 922—Existing Management Areas Boundary Coordinates
Appendix III to Subpart P of Part 922—Wildlife Management Areas Access Restrictions
Appendix IV to Subpart P of Part 922—Ecological Reserves Boundary Coordinates
Appendix V to Subpart P of Part 922—Sanctuary Preservation Areas Boundary Coordinates
Appendix VI to Subpart P of Part 922—Special-use Areas Boundary Coordinates and Use Designations
Appendix VII to Subpart P of Part 922—Areas To Be Avoided Boundary Coordinates

# Subpart Q—Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
922.180
Purpose.
922.181
Boundary.
922.182
Definitions.
922.183
Allowed activities.
922.184
Prohibited activities.
922.185
Emergency regulations.
922.186
Penalties; appeals.
922.187
Interagency cooperation.
Appendix A to Subpart Q of Part 922—Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates of the Lateral Boundary Closures and Excluded Areas

# Subpart R—Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve
922.190
Boundary.
922.191
Definitions.
922.192
Joint Management Committee.
922.193
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.194
[Reserved]
922.195
Permit procedures.
922.196
Emergency regulations.
922.197
Effect on affected federally-recognized Indian tribes.
922.198
Procedures for determining watercraft and related items which sink on or after the date of Sanctuary designation to be an underwater cultural resource.
Appendix A to Subpart R of Part 922—Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve Boundary Coordinates
Appendix B to Subpart R of Part 922—Minor Projects for Purposes of § 922.193(
a
)(2)(
iii
)

# Subpart S—Mallows Bay—Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary
922.200
Boundary.
922.201
Definitions.
922.202
Joint management.
922.203
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.204
Emergency regulations.
922.205
Permit procedures and review criteria.
922.206
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
Appendix A to Subpart S of Part 922—Mallows Bay-Potomac River Marine Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates of the Lateral Boundary Closures and Excluded Areas
Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 922—Mallows Bay-Potomac River Marine Sanctuary Terms of Designation

# Subpart T—Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary
922.210
Boundary.
922.211
Definitions.
922.212
Co-management.
922.213
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.214
Emergency regulations.
922.215
Permit procedures.
922.216
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
Appendix A to Subpart T of Part 922—Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates of the Lateral Boundary Closures and Excluded Areas
Appendix B to Subpart T of Part 922—Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast Marine Sanctuary Terms of Designation

# Subpart U—Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary
922.220
Boundary.
922.221
Definitions.
922.222
Co-management.
922.223
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.224
Emergency regulations.
922.225
Permit procedures and review criteria.
922.226
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
922.227
Effect on affected federally-recognized Indian Tribes.
Appendix A to Subpart U of Part 922—Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates of the Excluded Areas
Appendix B to Subpart U of Part 922—Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary Terms of Designation

# Subpart V—Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary
922.230
Boundary.
922.231
Definitions.
922.232
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
922.233
Permit procedures.
922.234
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or other rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
922.235
Memoranda of Agreement with partner agencies.
Appendix A to Subpart V of Part 922—Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates
Appendix B to Subpart V of Part 922—Coordinates for Rodriguez Seamount Management Zone

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.

# Source:
60 FR 66877, Dec. 27, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 922 appear at 62 FR 3789, Jan. 27, 1997 and at 62 FR 67724, Dec. 30, 1997.

# Subpart A—Regulations of General Applicability

# Source:
88 FR 958, Jan. 6, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.1
Purposes and applicability of the regulations.
(a) The purposes of this part are:
(1) To implement title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.,
also known as the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA or Act)), the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary and Protection Act (FKNMSPA) (Pub. L. 101-605) and the Hawaiian Islands National Marine Sanctuary Act (sections 2301-2307 of Pub. L. 102-587); and
(2) To implement the designations of the national marine sanctuaries, for which specific regulations appear in subpart F through subsequent subparts
of this part, by regulating activities affecting them, consistent with their respective terms of designation, in order to protect, restore, preserve, manage, and thereby ensure the health, integrity, and continued availability of the conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, scientific, educational, cultural, archaeological, and aesthetic resources and qualities of these areas.
(b) The regulations of this part are binding on any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Designation of a national marine sanctuary beyond the U.S. territorial sea does not constitute any claim to territorial jurisdiction on the part of the United States. The regulations of this part shall be applied in accordance with generally recognized principles of international law,
1
and in accordance with treaties, conventions, and other agreements to which the United States is a party. No regulation of this part shall apply to a person who is not a citizen, national, or resident alien of the United States, unless in accordance with:
1
Based on the legislative history of the NMSA, NOAA has long interpreted the text of 16 U.S.C. 1435(a) as encompassing international law, including customary international law.
(1) Generally recognized principles of international law;
(2) An agreement between the United States and the foreign state of which the person is a citizen; or
(3) An agreement between the United States and the flag state of the foreign vessel, if the person is a crew member of the vessel.
(c) Unless noted otherwise, the regulations in this subpart and subpart D of this part apply to all national marine sanctuaries immediately upon designation.
[88 FR 958, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 48286, June 6, 2024; 89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024]
§ 922.2
Mission, goals, and special policies.
(a) In accordance with the standards set forth in the Act, the mission of the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries (Office) is to identify, designate, protect, restore, and manage areas of the marine environment of special national, and in some cases international, significance due to their conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, scientific, educational, cultural, archeological, or aesthetic resources and qualities.
(b) The goal of the Office is to carry out the mission of the Act in a manner consistent with the purposes and policies of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1431(b)); the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary and Protection Act (Pub. L. 101-605) which designated Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary; the Hawaiian Islands National Marine Sanctuary and Protection Act (Pub. L. 102-587), which designated Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary; the Oceans Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-587), which designated Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary; and the National Marine Sanctuaries Preservation Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-283), which added Stetson Bank to Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary.
(c) Management efforts will be coordinated to the extent practicable with other countries managing marine protected areas;
(d) Program regulations, policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures developed pursuant to the Act concerning the identification, evaluation, registration, and treatment of historical resources shall be consistent, to the extent practicable, with the declared national policy for the protection and preservation of these resources as stated in the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 54 U.S.C. 300101
et seq.,
the Archeological and Historical Preservation Act of 1974, 54 U.S.C. 312501
et seq.,
and the Archeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (ARPA), 16 U.S.C. 470aa
et seq.
The same degree of regulatory protection and preservation planning policy extended to historical resources on land shall be extended, to the extent practicable, to historical resources in the marine environment within the boundaries of designated national marine sanctuaries. The management of historical resources under the authority of the Act shall be consistent, to the extent practicable, with the Federal archeological program by consulting the Uniform Regulations, ARPA (43 CFR
part 7) and other relevant Federal regulations. The Secretary of the Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology may also be consulted for guidance.
§ 922.3
Issuance of regulations for fishing.
If a proposed Sanctuary includes waters within the exclusive economic zone, the Secretary shall notify the appropriate Regional Fishery Management Council(s). The appropriate Council(s) shall have one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of such notification to make recommendations and, if appropriate, prepare draft fishing regulations for the area within the exclusive economic zone and submit them to the Secretary. In preparing its recommendations and draft regulations, the Council(s) shall use as guidance the national standards of section 301(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1851) to the extent that they are consistent and compatible with the goals and objectives of the proposed Sanctuary designation. Any fishing activities not proposed for regulation under section 304(a)(5) of the NMSA may be listed in the draft Sanctuary designation document as being subject to regulation, without following the procedures specified in section 304(a)(5) of the NMSA. If the Secretary subsequently determines that regulation of fishing is necessary, then NOAA will follow the procedures specified in section 304(a)(5) of the NMSA.
§ 922.4
Boundaries.
Subpart F and subsequent subparts of this part set forth the boundaries for all national marine sanctuaries.
[89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024]
§ 922.5
Allowed activities.
All activities (e.g., fishing, boating, diving, research, education) may be conducted unless prohibited or otherwise regulated in the site-specific regulations covered by this part, subject to any emergency regulations promulgated under this part, subject to all prohibitions, regulations, restrictions, and conditions validly imposed by any Federal, State, or local authority of competent jurisdiction, including but not limited to, Federal, Tribal, and State fishery management authorities, and subject to the provisions of section 312 of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA) (16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
). The Assistant Administrator may only directly regulate fishing activities pursuant to the procedure set forth in section 304(a)(5) of the NMSA.
[88 FR 958, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19826, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.6
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
Subpart F and subsequent subparts of this part set forth site-specific regulations applicable to the activities specified therein.
[89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024]
§ 922.7
Emergency regulations.
(a) Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality, or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any and all such activities are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition.
(b) This section does not apply to the following national marine sanctuaries with site-specific regulations that establish procedures for issuing emergency regulations:
(1) Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary, § 922.112(e).
(2) Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, § 922.165.
(3) Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary, § 922.185.
(4) Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary, § 922.196.
(5) Mallows Bay—Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary, § 922.204.
(6) Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary, § 922.214.
(7) Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary, § 922.224.
[88 FR 958, Jan 6, 2023, as amended by 89 FR 48286, June 6, 2024]
§ 922.8
Penalties.
(a) Each violation of the NMSA or the other statutes designating national marine sanctuaries listed in § 922.2(b), any regulation in this part or any permit issued pursuant thereto, is subject
to a civil penalty. Each day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate violation.
(b) Regulations setting forth the procedures governing administrative proceedings for assessment of civil penalties, permit sanctions and denials for enforcement reasons, issuance and use of written warnings, and release or forfeiture of seized property appear at 15 CFR part 904.
§ 922.9
Response costs and damages.
Under section 312 of the Act, any person who destroys, causes the loss of, or injures any Sanctuary resource is liable to the United States for response costs and damages resulting from such destruction, loss, or injury. Any vessel used to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure any Sanctuary resource is liable
in rem
to the United States for response costs and damages resulting from such destruction, loss, or injury.
§ 922.10
Pre-existing authorizations or rights and certifications of pre-existing authorizations or rights.
Any valid lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access that is in existence on the effective date of final regulations for a designation or revised terms of designation of any National Marine Sanctuary may not be terminated by the Director. The Director may, however, regulate the exercise of such leases, permits, licenses, or rights consistent with the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated.
§ 922.11
Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this part, unless modified by the definitions for a specific subpart or regulation:
Abandoning
means leaving without intent to remove any structure, material, or other matter on or in the seabed or submerged lands of a Sanctuary. For Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve, abandoning means leaving without intent to remove any structure, material or other matter on the lake bottom associated with underwater cultural resources.
Act or NMSA
means title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.,
also known as the National Marine Sanctuaries Act.
Assistant Administrator
means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) or designee.
Attract or attracting
means the conduct of any activity that lures or may lure any animal by using food, bait, chum, dyes, decoys (e.g., surfboards or body boards used as decoys), acoustics or any other means, except the mere presence of human beings (e.g., swimmers, divers, boaters, kayakers, surfers).
Benthic community
means the assemblage of organisms, substrate, and structural formations found at or near the sea/ocean/lake bottom that is periodically or permanently covered by water.
Clean
means not containing detectable levels of harmful matter
.
Commercial fishing
means any activity that results in the sale or trade for intended profit of fish, shellfish, algae, or corals.
Conventional hook and line gear
means any fishing gear composed of a single line terminated by a combination of sinkers and hooks or lures and spooled upon a reel that may be hand, electrically, or hydraulically operated, regardless of whether mounted. This term does not include longlines.
Cruise ship
means any vessel with 250 or more passenger berths for hire.
Cultural resource
means any historical or cultural feature, including archaeological sites, historic structures, shipwrecks, and artifacts.
Deserting
means leaving a vessel aground, adrift, wrecked, junked, or in a substantially dismantled condition without notification to the Director of the vessel going aground or becoming adrift, wrecked, junked, or substantially dismantled within 12 hours of its discovery and developing and presenting to the Director a preliminary salvage plan within 24 hours of such notification; after expressing or otherwise manifesting intention not to undertake or to cease salvage efforts, or when the owner/operator cannot after reasonable efforts by the Director be reached within 12 hours of the vessel's
condition being reported to authorities; or leaving a vessel at anchor when its condition creates potential for a grounding, discharge, or deposit and the owner/operator fails to secure the vessel in a timely manner.
Director
means, except where otherwise specified, the Director of the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries or designee.
Effective date
means the date of final regulations described and published in the
Federal Register.
For regulations governing the designation of a new sanctuary or revising terms of designation, effective date means the date after the close of the review period of the 45th day of continuous session of Congress following submission of the
Federal Register
document of the designation together with final regulations to implement the designation and any other matters required by law, unless the Governor of any state in which the sanctuary is completely or partially located certifies that the designation or any of its terms is unacceptable pursuant to section 304(b) of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA) (16 U.S.C. 1434(b)).
Exclusive economic zone
means the zone established by Proclamation 5030, dated March 10, 1983, and as defined in the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended 16 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
Fish
means finfish, mollusks, crustaceans, and all other forms of marine animal and plant life other than marine mammals and birds, as defined in the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1802(12)).
Graywater
means graywater as defined by section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1322.
Harmful matter
means any substance, or combination of substances, that because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may pose a present or potential threat of injury to Sanctuary resources or qualities. Such substances or combination of substances may include, but is not limited to: fishing nets, fishing line, hooks, fuel, oil, and hazardous substances as defined by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601(14) and designated at 40 CFR 302.4.
Historical resource
means any resource possessing historical, cultural, archaeological or paleontological significance, including a site, contextual information, structure, district, and object significantly associated with or representative of earlier people, culture, maritime heritage, and human activities and events. Historical resource includes “cultural resource,” “submerged cultural resource,” and “historical property” as that term is used in the National Historic Preservation Act, as amended, 54 U.S.C. 300101
et seq.
and its implementing regulations, as amended.
Indian tribe
means an Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 5130.
Injure or injury
means to change adversely, either in the short or long term, a chemical, biological or physical attribute, or the viability, of a sanctuary resource. This includes, but is not limited to, to cause the loss of or destroy.
Introduced species
means any species (including, but not limited to, any of its biological matter capable of propagation) that is non-native to the ecosystems of the Sanctuary; or any organism into which altered genetic matter, or genetic matter from another species, has been transferred in order that the host organism acquires the genetic traits of the transferred genes.
Inventory
means a list of selected natural and historical resource sites selected by the Secretary as qualifying for further evaluation for possible designation as National Marine Sanctuaries.
Lawful fishing
means fishing authorized by a tribal, State or Federal entity with jurisdiction over the activity.
Lightering
means at-sea transfer of petroleum-based products, materials, or other matter from vessel to vessel.
Marine
means those areas of coastal and ocean waters, the Great Lakes and their connecting waters, and submerged lands over which the United
States exercises jurisdiction, including the exclusive economic zone, consistent with international law.
Mineral
means clay, stone, sand, gravel, metalliferous ore, non-metalliferous ore, or any other solid material or other matter of commercial value.
National historic landmark
means a district, site, building, structure or object designated as such by the Secretary of the Interior under the National Historic Landmarks Program (36 CFR part 65).
National Marine Sanctuary or Sanctuary
means an area of the marine environment of special national significance designated as such by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) pursuant to the Act or by Congress pursuant to legislation.
Person
means any private individual, partnership, corporation or other entity; or any officer, employee, agent, department, agency or instrumentality of the Federal government, of any State or local unit of government, or of any foreign government.
Regional Fishery Management Council
means any fishery council established under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
Sanctuary quality
means any of those ambient conditions, physical-chemical characteristics and natural processes, the maintenance of which is essential to the ecological health of a national marine sanctuary, including, but not limited to, water quality, sediment quality, and air quality.
Sanctuary resource
means any living or non-living resource of a national marine sanctuary, or the parts or products thereof, that contributes to the conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, educational, cultural, archaeological, scientific, or aesthetic value of the national marine sanctuary, including, but not limited to, waters of the sanctuary, the seabed or submerged lands of the sanctuary, other submerged features and the surrounding seabed, carbonate rock, corals and other bottom formations, coralline algae and other marine plants and algae, marine invertebrates, brine-seep biota, phytoplankton, zooplankton, fish, birds, sea turtles and other marine reptiles, marine mammals, and maritime heritage, cultural, archaeological, and historical resources. For Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve, Sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.191. For Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale, Sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.182. For Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary, Sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.201(a). For Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary, sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.211. For Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary, sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.221.
Seagrass
means any species of marine angiosperms (flowering plants) that inhabits a portion of the seabed in a national marine sanctuary. Those species include, but are not limited to:
Zostera asiatica
(Asian eelgrass),
Zostera marina
(eelgrass/common eelgrass);
Thalassia testudinum
(turtle grass);
Syringodium filiforme
(manatee grass);
Halodule wrightii
(shoal grass);
Halophila decipiens
(paddle grass),
H. engelmannii (
Engelmann's seagrass),
H. johnsonii
(Johnson's seagrass); and
Ruppia maritima
(widgeon grass).
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of Commerce, or designee.
Shunt
means to discharge expended drilling cuttings and fluids near the ocean seafloor.
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
Subsistence use
means the customary and traditional use by rural residents of areas near or in the marine environment for direct personal or family consumption as food, shelter, fuel, clothing, tools, or transportation; for the making and selling of handicraft articles; and for barter, if for food or non-edible items other than money, if the exchange is of a limited and non-commercial nature.
Take (taking or taken) of a marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird
means:
(1) Take as that term is defined in section 3(19) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1532(19) (ESA);
(2) Take as that term is defined in section 3(13) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1362(13) (MMPA); or
(3) Conducting an activity prohibited by section 703 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 703 (MBTA).
(4) For purposes of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this definition, take also includes, but is not limited to, collection of any dead or injured marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, or any part thereof; or restraint or detainment of any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, no matter how temporarily; tagging any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, or operating a vessel or aircraft or conducting any other act that results in the disturbance or molestation of any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird.
Vessel
means a watercraft of any description capable of being used as a means of transportation in or on the waters of a sanctuary. The term includes but is not limited to, motorized and non-motorized watercraft, personal watercraft, airboats, and float planes while maneuvering on the water. For purposes of this part, the terms “vessel,” “watercraft,” and “boat” have the same meaning.
Washington Coast treaty tribe
means the Hoh, Makah, or Quileute Indian Tribes or the Quinault Indian Nation.
[88 FR 958, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 48287, June 6, 2024]
§ 922.12
Sanctuary nomination process.
(a) The sanctuary nomination process (
see
National Marine Sanctuaries website
www.sanctuaries.noaa.gov
) is the means by which the public can submit areas of the marine and Great Lakes environments for consideration by NOAA as a national marine sanctuary.
(b) The Director will consider the following national significance criteria in determining if a nominated area is of special national significance:
(1) The area's natural resources and ecological qualities are of special significance and contribute to: biological productivity or diversity; maintenance or enhancement of ecosystem structure and function; maintenance of ecologically or commercially important species or species assemblages; maintenance or enhancement of critical habitat, representative biogeographic assemblages, or both; or maintenance or enhancement of connectivity to other ecologically significant resources.
(2) The area contains submerged maritime heritage resources of special historical, cultural, or archaeological significance, that: individually or collectively are consistent with the criteria of eligibility or listing on the National Register of Historic Places; have met or which would meet the criteria for designation as a National Historic Landmark; or have special or sacred meaning to the indigenous people of the region or nation.
(3) The area supports present and potential economic uses, such as: tourism; commercial and recreational fishing; subsistence and traditional uses; diving; and other recreational uses that depend on conservation and management of the area's resources.
(4) The publicly-derived benefits of the area, such as aesthetic value, public recreation, and access to places depend on conservation and management of the area's resources.
(c) The Director will consider the following management considerations in determining the manageability of a nominated area:
(1) The area provides or enhances opportunities for research in marine science, including marine archaeology.
(2) The area provides or enhances opportunities for education, including the understanding and appreciation of the marine and Great Lakes environments.
(3) Adverse impacts from current or future uses and activities threaten the area's significance, values, qualities, and resources.
(4) A national marine sanctuary would provide unique conservation and management value for this area that also have beneficial values for adjacent areas.
(5) The existing regulatory and management authorities for the area could be supplemented or complemented to meet the conservation and management goals for the area.
(6) There are commitments or possible commitments for partnerships opportunities such as cost sharing, office space or exhibit space, vessel time, or other collaborations to aid conservation or management programs for the area.
(7) There is community-based support for the nomination expressed by a broad range of interests, such as: individuals or locally-based groups (
e.g.,
friends of group, chamber of commerce); local, tribal, state, or national agencies; elected officials; or topic-based stakeholder groups, at the local, regional or national level (
e.g.,
a local chapter of an environmental organization, a regionally-based fishing group, a national-level recreation or tourism organization, academia or science-based group, or an industry association).
(d) Following evaluation of a nomination against the national significance criteria and management considerations, the Director may place nominated areas in a publicly available inventory for future consideration of designation as a national marine sanctuary.
(e) A determination that a site is eligible for national marine sanctuary designation, by itself shall not subject the site to any regulatory control under the Act. Such controls may only be imposed after designation.
§ 922.13
Selection of nominated areas for national marine sanctuary designation.
(a) The Director may select a nominated area from the inventory for future consideration as a national marine sanctuary.
(b) Selection of a nominated area from the inventory shall begin the formal sanctuary designation process. A notice of intent to prepare a draft environmental impact statement shall be published in the
Federal Register
and posted on the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries website. Any designation process will follow the procedures for designation and implementation set forth in section 304 of the Act.
Subparts B - C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—National Marine Sanctuary Permitting

# Source:
88 FR 962, Jan. 6, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.30
National Marine Sanctuary general permits.
(a)
Authority to issue general permits.
The Director may allow a person to conduct an activity that would otherwise be prohibited by this part through issuance of a general permit, provided the applicant complies with:
(1) The provisions of this subpart; and
(2) The permit procedures and criteria for all national marine sanctuaries in which the proposed activity is to take place in accordance with relevant site-specific regulations appearing in subpart F and subsequent subparts of this part.
(b)
Sanctuary general permit categories.
The Director may issue a sanctuary general permit under this subpart and the relevant site-specific subpart, subject to such terms and conditions as he or she deems appropriate, if the Director finds that the proposed activity falls within one of the following categories or a category in the relevant site-specific subpart:
(1) Research—activities that constitute scientific research or scientific monitoring of a national marine sanctuary resource or quality;
(2) Education—activities that enhance public awareness, understanding, or appreciation of a national marine sanctuary or national marine sanctuary resource or quality;
(3) Management—activities that assist in managing a national marine sanctuary;
(4) Jade removal—the removal of loose jade from the Jade Cove area, without the use of pneumatic, mechanical, electrical, hydraulic or explosive tools, within Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary that cannot be collected under 15 CFR 922.132(a)(1)(ii) and (iii). Preference will be given for applications proposing to collect loose pieces of jade for research or educational purposes;
(5) Tribal self-determination—activities conducted by a Washington Coast
treaty tribe and/or its designee as certified by the governing body of the tribe to promote or enhance tribal self-determination, tribal government functions, the exercise of treaty rights, the economic development of the tribe, subsistence, ceremonial and spiritual activities, or the education or training of tribal members
(6) Further FKNMS purposes—activities that further the purposes of Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, including those that facilitate multiple use of the sanctuary, to the extent compatible with the primary objective of resource protection; and
(7) Native American cultural or ceremonial activities—activities within Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary that will promote or enhance local Native American cultural or ceremonial activities; or will promote or enhance education and training related to local Native American cultural or ceremonial activities.
[88 FR 962, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024]
§ 922.31
National Marine Sanctuary special use permits.
(a)
In general.
A person may conduct a specified special use permit activity, if such activity is specifically authorized by, and is conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, manner, terms and conditions of, a special use permit issued under this section.
(b)
Authority to issue.
The Director, at his or her discretion, may issue a special use permit in accordance with this subpart and section 310 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1441).
(c)
Public notice.
The Director will not issue a special use permit for any category of activity unless the Director has published a notice in the
Federal Register
that such category of activity is subject to the requirements of section 310 of the Act.
(d)
Fees.
The Director may assess and collect fees for the conduct of any activity authorized by a special use permit issued pursuant to this section. The fee will be assessed in accordance with § 922.35.
[88 FR 958, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 48287, June 6, 2024]
§ 922.32
Application requirements and procedures.
(a)
Submitting applications.
Permit applications must be submitted by mail to the address listed in the subpart for the relevant national marine sanctuary or by electronic means as defined in the instructions for the ONMS permit application. Applicants proposing to conduct an activity in more than one national marine sanctuary should send the application to each NOAA office for the relevant national marine sanctuaries in which the activity is proposed.
(b)
Application requirements.
All applications for a permit under this section must include the following information:
(1) A detailed description of the proposed activity including:
(i) A timetable for completion of the activity;
(ii) A detailed description of the proposed location for the activity; and
(iii) The equipment, personnel and methodology to be employed;
(2) The qualifications and experience of all personnel;
(3) The financial resources available to the applicant to conduct and complete the proposed activity and comply with any terms and conditions deemed necessary;
(4) A statement as to why it is necessary to conduct the activity within a national marine sanctuary;
(5) A description of the potential impacts of the activity, if any, on sanctuary resources and qualities;
(6) A description of the benefits the conduct of the activity would have for the national marine sanctuary or national marine sanctuary system;
(7) Copies of all other required licenses, permits, approvals, or other authorizations; and
(8) Such other information as the Director may request or is specified in the relevant subpart.
(c)
Additional information.
Upon receipt of an application, and as part of the evaluation of the permit application, the Director may:
(1) Request such additional information as he or she deems necessary to act on the application;
(2) Require a site visit; and
(3) Seek the views of any persons.
(d)
Time limit for submitting additional information.
Unless otherwise specified in writing by the Director, any information requested by the Director under paragraph (c) of this section must be received by the Director within 30 days of the postmark date of the request or, if email, the date of the email. Failure to provide such additional information may be deemed by the Director to constitute withdrawal of the permit application.
(e)
Incomplete applications.
The Director may consider an application incomplete, and therefore may refuse to further consider the application, if the applicant:
(1) Has failed to submit any of the information required under paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Has failed to submit any of the information requested by the Director under paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Has failed to pay any outstanding penalties that resulted from a violation of this part; or
(4) Has failed to fully comply with a permit issued pursuant to this subpart.
§ 922.33
Review procedures and evaluation.
(a)
Review criteria.
In addition to any relevant site-specific permit review criteria, the Director shall not issue a permit under this subpart or the relevant subpart, unless he or she also finds that:
(1) The proposed activity will be conducted in a manner compatible with the primary objective of protection of national marine sanctuary resources and qualities, taking into account the following factors: the extent to which the conduct of the activity may diminish or enhance national marine sanctuary resources and qualities; and any indirect or cumulative effects of the activity;
(2) It is necessary to conduct the proposed activity within the national marine sanctuary to achieve its stated purpose;
(3) The methods and procedures proposed by the applicant are appropriate to achieve the proposed activity's stated purpose and avoid, minimize, or otherwise mitigate adverse effects on sanctuary resources and qualities as much as possible;
(4) The duration of the proposed activity and its effects are no longer than necessary to achieve the activity's stated purpose;
(5) The expected end value of the activity to the furtherance of national marine sanctuary goals and purposes outweighs any potential adverse impacts on sanctuary resources and qualities from the conduct of the activity;
(6) The applicant is professionally qualified to conduct and complete the proposed activity;
(7) The applicant has adequate financial resources available to conduct and complete the proposed activity and terms and conditions of the permit;
(8) There are no other factors that would make the issuance of a permit for the activity inappropriate; and
(9) For Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary, the activity as proposed does not adversely affect any Washington Coast treaty tribe.
(b)
Permit terms and conditions.
The Director, at his or her discretion, may subject a permit issued under this subpart or other relevant subpart to such terms and conditions as he or she deems appropriate. A permit granted pursuant to this subpart is nontransferable.
(c)
Permit actions.
The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke a permit issued pursuant to this part or other relevant subpart for good cause. Procedures governing permit sanctions and denials for enforcement reasons are set forth in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904.
(d)
Denial of permit application.
The Director may deny a permit application, in whole or in part, if it is determined that:
(1) The proposed activity does not meet the review criteria specified in this subpart or the relevant subpart of any national marine sanctuary in which the proposed activity is to take place;
(2) The permittee or applicant has acted in violation of the terms and conditions of a permit issued under this subpart or the relevant subpart of any national marine sanctuary in which the proposed activity is to take place;
(3) The permittee or applicant has acted in violation of any regulation set forth in this subpart, the NMSA, or the FKNMSPA;
(4) The proposed activity has resulted in unforeseen adverse impacts to Sanctuary resources or qualities; or
(5) For other good cause.
(e)
Communication of actions and denials.
Any action taken by the Director under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall be communicated in writing to the permittee or applicant and shall set forth the reason(s) for the action taken.
§ 922.34
Permit amendments.
(a)
Request for amendments.
Any person who has been issued a permit under this part (a permittee) may request to amend the permit at any time while that permit is valid. For purposes of this section, a permit time extension is treated as a permit amendment. A request for permit amendment must be submitted to the same NOAA office(s) as the original permit and include sufficient information to describe the requested amendment and any additional supporting information.
(b)
Review of amendment requests.
After receiving the permittee's request for amendment, the Director will:
(1) Review all reports submitted by the permittee as required by the permit terms and conditions; and
(2) Request such additional information as may be necessary to evaluate the request.
(c)
Denial of amendment request.
The Director may deny a permit amendment request, in whole or in part, if it is determined that:
(1) The proposed activity does not meet the review criteria specified in this subpart or the relevant subpart of any national marine sanctuary in which the proposed activity is to take place;
(2) The permittee or applicant has acted in violation of the terms or conditions of a permit issued under this subpart or the relevant subpart of any national marine sanctuary in which the proposed activity is to take place;
(3) The permittee or applicant has acted in violation of any regulation set forth in this subpart, the NMSA, or the FKNMSPA;
(4) The proposed activity has resulted in unforeseen adverse impacts to Sanctuary resources or qualities; or
(5) For other good cause.
§ 922.35
Special use permit fees.
(a)
Authority to assess fees.
The Director may assess a fee for the conduct of any activity authorized under a special use permit issued under § 922.31. The Director may collect assessed fees through agreement with the permit applicant. No special use permit may be effective until all assessed fees are received unless otherwise provided by the Director by a fee schedule set forth as a permit condition.
(b)
Components of permit fees.
A fee assessed under this section may include:
(1) All costs incurred, or expected to be incurred, in reviewing and processing the permit application, including, but not limited to, costs for:
(i) Personnel;
(ii) Personnel hours;
(iii) Equipment;
(iv) Environmental analysis, assessment or consultation;
(v) Copying; and
(vi) Overhead costs directly related to reviewing and processing the permit application;
(2) All costs incurred, or expected to be incurred, as a direct result of the conduct of the activity for which the permit is being issued, including, but not limited to:
(i) The cost of monitoring the conduct both during the activity and after the activity is completed in order to assess the impacts to sanctuary resources and qualities;
(ii) The use of an official NOAA observer, including travel and expenses and personnel hours; and
(iii) Overhead costs directly related to the permitted activity; and
(3) An amount which represents the fair market value of the use of the sanctuary resource.
§ 922.36
National Marine Sanctuary authorizations.
(a)
Authority to issue authorizations.
The Director may authorize a person to conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by subparts L through P, or subparts R through V, of this part, if such activity is specifically allowed by any valid Federal, State, or local lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization (hereafter called “agency approval”) issued after the effective date of sanctuary designation or expansion,
provided the applicant complies with the provisions of this section. Such an authorization by the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries (ONMS) is hereafter referred to as an “ONMS authorization.”
(b)
Authorization notification to the Director
—(1)
Notification requirement.
An applicant must notify the Director in writing of the request for an ONMS authorization of an agency approval. The Director may treat an amendment or extension of such an agency approval as constituting a new agency approval for purposes of this section.
(i) Notification must occur within fifteen days after the date the applicant files of filing of the application for the agency approval.
(ii) Notification must be sent to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries, to the attention of the relevant Sanctuary Superintendent(s) at the address specified in subparts L through P, subpart R, subpart U, or subpart V of this part.
(iii) A copy of the application for the agency approval must accompany the notification.
(2)
Director's response to notification.
The Director shall respond in writing to the applicant and provide periodic updates on pending ONMS authorization request.
(c)
Authorization review procedures and evaluation
—(1)
Additional information.
The Director may request additional information from the applicant as the Director deems reasonably necessary to determine whether to issue an ONMS authorization and what terms and conditions are reasonably necessary to protect sanctuary resources and qualities.
(i) The information requested must be received by the Director within 45 days of the postmark date of the Director's request.
(ii) The Director may seek the views of any persons on the application.
(2)
Review criteria.
The Director shall consider the review criteria in § 922.33(a)(1) through (9) when deciding whether to issue an ONMS authorization.
(3)
Director's response.
The Director shall respond in writing to the applicant to inform the applicant of the Director's decision regarding the authorization request.
(i) The Director may deny a request for an ONMS authorization and shall provide the reason(s) therefore. If the Director denies a request for an ONMS authorization, the applicant remains prohibited from conducting the activity in the sanctuary.
(ii) The Director may issue an ONMS authorization containing terms and conditions deemed reasonably necessary to protect sanctuary resources and qualities. Failure to comply with an ONMS authorization constitutes a violation of the NMSA and these regulations, which may result in an enforcement action and assessment of penalties.
(d)
Authorization actions.
The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke an ONMS authorization issued pursuant to this part for good cause. Procedures governing ONMS sanctions and denials for enforcement reasons are set forth in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904.
(e)
Communication of actions and denials.
Any action taken by the Director under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section to deny, amend, suspend, or revoke an ONMS authorization shall be communicated in writing to the permittee or applicant and shall set forth the reason(s) for the action taken.
(f)
Time limits.
Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section may be extended by the Director for good cause.
[88 FR 958, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 48287, June 6, 2024; 89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024]
§ 922.37
Appeals of permitting decisions.
(a)
Potential appellant.
The following person may appeal an action listed in paragraph (b) of this section (hereinafter referred to as “appellant”):
(1) An applicant or holder of a certification of any existing lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access pursuant to § 922.10;
(2) An applicant or a holder of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to § 922.30 or pursuant to site-specific regulations appearing in subparts F through V of this part;
(3) An applicant or a holder of a special use permit issued pursuant to section 310 of the Act and § 922.31; and
(4) An applicant or a holder of an ONMS authorization of an agency approval issued by any Federal, State, or local authority of competent jurisdiction pursuant to § 922.36.
(5) For those National Marine Sanctuaries described in subparts F through K and S and T of this part, any interested person may also appeal the same actions described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(b)
Actions that may be appealed.
An appellant may appeal the following actions to the Assistant Administrator:
(1) The denial, conditioning, amendment, suspension, or revocation by the Director of a general permit pursuant to § 922.30 or other relevant subpart, special use permit pursuant to section 310 of the Act and § 922.31, or an ONMS authorization issued pursuant to § 922.36; or a certification under § 922.10.
(2) Reserved.
(c)
Appeal requirements.
Appeals must be made in writing to the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, NOAA, 1305 East-West Highway, 13th Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20910 and must:
(1) State the action(s) by the Director being appealed;
(2) State the reason(s) for the appeal; and
(3) Be received within 30 days of the appellant's receipt of notice of the action by the Director.
(d)
Appeal procedures.
(1) The Assistant Administrator may request the appellant submit such information as the Assistant Administrator deems necessary in order to render a decision on the appeal. The information requested must be received by the Assistant Administrator within 45 days of the postmark date of the request.
(2) The Assistant Administrator may seek the views of any other persons when deciding an appeal.
(3) The Assistant Administrator may hold an informal hearing. If an informal hearing is held:
(i) The Assistant Administrator may designate an officer before whom the hearing shall be held;
(ii) The hearing officer shall give notice in the
Federal Register
of the time, place and subject matter of the hearing;
(iii) The appellant and Director may appear personally or by counsel at the hearing and submit such material and present such arguments as deemed appropriate by the hearing officer; and
(iv) The hearing officer shall recommend a decision in writing to the Assistant Administrator ithin 60 days after the record for the hearing closes.
(e)
Deciding an appeal.
(1) The Assistant Administrator shall decide the appeal using the same regulatory criteria as for the initial decision and shall base the appeal decision on the record before the Director and any information submitted at the Assistant Administrator's request pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, regarding the appeal, and, if a hearing has been held, on the record before the hearing officer and the hearing officer's recommended decision.
(2) The Assistant Administrator shall notify the appellant of the final decision and the reason(s) therefore in writing.
(3) The Assistant Administrator's decision shall constitute final agency action for purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act.
(f)
Authority to extend time limits.
Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section other than the 30-day limit for filing an appeal pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section may be extended by the Assistant Administrator for good cause.
[88 FR 962, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024]
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Monitor National Marine Sanctuary
§ 922.60
Boundary.
The Monitor National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) consists of a vertical water column in the Atlantic Ocean one mile in diameter (0.593 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) or (0.785 sq. mi.)) extending from the surface to the seabed, the center of which is at the following coordinates 35.00639, -75.40889.
[88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.61
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
Except as may be permitted by the Director, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within the Sanctuary:
(a) Anchoring in any manner, stopping, remaining, or drifting without power at any time;
(b) Any type of subsurface salvage or recovery operation;
(c) Diving of any type, whether by an individual or by a submersible;
(d) Lowering below the surface of the water any grappling, suction, conveyor, dredging or wrecking device;
(e) Detonating below the surface of the water any explosive or explosive mechanism;
(f) Drilling or coring the seabed;
(g) Lowering, laying, positioning or raising any type of seabed cable or cable-laying device;
(h) Trawling; or
(i) Discharging waster material into the water in violation of any Federal statute or regulation.
§ 922.62
Permit procedures.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.61 if such activity is specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Monitor National Marine Sanctuary, c/o The Mariners' Museum, 100 Museum Drive, Newport News, VA 23606.
(c) In addition to the requirements of subpart D of this part, the Director may not issue a permit under this section unless the Director also finds that the extent to which the conduct of the proposed activity may diminish the value of the Monitor as a source of historic, cultural, aesthetic and/or maritime information is appropriate in relation to goals of the proposed activity.
(d) In considering any application submitted pursuant to this section, the Director shall seek and consider the views of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
[88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023]

# Subpart G—Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary
§ 922.70
Boundary.
The Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) consists of an area of approximately 1,110 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (1,470 sq. mi.) of coastal and ocean waters, and the submerged lands thereunder, off the southern coast of California. The Sanctuary boundary begins at the Mean High Water Line of and extends seaward to a distance of approximately six nmi from the following islands and offshore rocks: San Miguel Island, Santa Cruz Island, Santa Rosa Island, Anacapa Island, Santa Barbara Island, Richardson Rock, and Castle Rock (the Islands). The seaward boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart.
[74 FR 3260, Jan. 16, 2009, as amended by 88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.71
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions found at § 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
Motorized personal watercraft
means a vessel, usually less than 16 feet in length, which uses an inboard, internal combustion engine powering a water jet pump as its primary source of propulsion. The vessel is intended to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing or kneeling on the vessel, rather than within the confines of the hull. The length is measured from end to end over the deck excluding sheer, meaning a straight line measurement of the overall length from the foremost part of the vessel to the aftermost part of the vessel, measured parallel to the centerline. Bow sprits, bumpkins, rudders, outboard motor brackets, and similar fittings or attachments, are not included in the measurement. Length is stated in feet and inches.
Oceangoing ship
means a private, commercial, government, or military vessel of 300 gross registered tons or more, not including cruise ships.
Pelagic finfish
are defined as: Northern anchovy (
Engraulis mordax
), barracudas (
Sphyraena spp.
), billfishes (family
Istiophoridae
), dolphinfish (
Coryphaena hippurus
), Pacific herring (
Clupea pallasi
), jack mackerel (
Trachurus symmetricus
), Pacific mackerel (
Scomber japonicus
), salmon (
Oncorhynchus spp.
), Pacific sardine (
Sardinops sagax
), blue shark (
Prionace glauca
), salmon shark (
Lamna ditropis
), shortfin mako shark (
Isurus oxyrinchus
), thresher sharks (
Alopias spp.
), swordfish (
Xiphias gladius
), tunas (family
Scombridae
), and yellowtail (
Seriola lalandi
).
Stowed and not available for immediate use
means not readily accessible for immediate use, e.g., by being securely covered and lashed to a deck or bulkhead, tied down, unbaited, unloaded, or partially disassembled (such as spear shafts being kept separate from spear guns).
[74 FR 3260, Jan. 16, 2009, as amended at 88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.72
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Sanctuary-wide.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted:
(1) Exploring for, developing, or producing hydrocarbons within the Sanctuary, except pursuant to leases executed prior to March 30, 1981, and except the laying of pipeline pursuant to exploring for, developing, or producing hydrocarbons.
(2) Exploring for, developing, or producing minerals within the Sanctuary, except producing by-products incidental to hydrocarbon production allowed by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3)(i) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary any material or other matter except:
(A) Fish, fish parts, or chumming materials (bait) used in or resulting from lawful fishing activity within the Sanctuary, provided that such discharge or deposit is during the conduct of lawful fishing activity within the Sanctuary;
(B) For a vessel less than 300 gross registered tons (GRT), or an oceangoing ship without sufficient holding tank capacity to hold sewage while within the Sanctuary, biodegradable effluent generated incidental to vessel use by an operable Type I or II marine sanitation device (U.S. Coast Guard classification) approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1321
et seq.
Vessel operators must lock all marine sanitation devices in a manner that prevents discharge or deposit of untreated sewage;
(C) Biodegradable matter from:
(
1
) Vessel deck wash down;
(
2
) Vessel engine cooling water;
(
3
) Graywater from a vessel less than 300 gross registered tons;
(
4
) Graywater from an oceangoing ship without sufficient holding tank capacity to hold graywater while within the Sanctuary;
(D) Vessel engine or generator exhaust;
(E) Effluent routinely and necessarily discharged or deposited incidental to hydrocarbon exploration, development, or production allowed by paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(F) Discharge allowed under section 312(n) of the FWPCA.
(ii) Discharging or depositing from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except those listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B) through (F) of this section and fish, fish parts, or chumming materials (bait) used in or resulting from lawful fishing activity beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary, provided that such discharge or deposit is during the conduct of lawful fishing activity there.
(4) Drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the submerged lands of the Sanctuary; or constructing or placing any structure, material, or other matter on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary, except as incidental to and necessary to:
(i) Anchor a vessel;
(ii) Install an authorized navigational aid;
(iii) Conduct lawful fishing activity;
(iv) Lay pipeline pursuant to exploring for, developing, or producing hydrocarbons; or
(v) Explore for, develop, or produce hydrocarbons as allowed by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(5) Abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary.
(6) Except to transport persons or supplies to or from any Island, operating within one nmi of any Island any vessel engaged in the trade of carrying cargo, including, but not limited to, tankers and other bulk carriers and barges, any vessel engaged in the trade of servicing offshore installations, or any vessel of three hundred gross registered tons or more, except fishing or kelp harvesting vessels.
(7) Disturbing marine mammals or seabirds by flying motorized aircraft at less than 1,000 feet over the waters within one nautical mile of any Island, except to engage in kelp bed surveys or to transport persons or supplies to or from an Island. Failure to maintain a minimum altitude of 1,000 feet above ground level over such waters is presumed to disturb marine mammals or seabirds.
(8) Moving, removing, injuring, or possessing, or attempting to move, remove, injure, or possess a Sanctuary historical resource.
(9) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or seabird within or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.,
or any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.
(10) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken from, moved, or removed from) any marine mammal, sea turtle, or seabird, except as authorized by the MMPA, ESA, MBTA, or any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.
(11) Marking, defacing, damaging, moving, removing, or tampering with any sign, notice, or placard, whether temporary or permanent, or any monument, stake, post, or other boundary marker related to the Sanctuary.
(12) Introducing or otherwise releasing from within or into the Sanctuary an introduced species, except striped bass (
Morone saxatilis
) released during catch and release fishing activity.
(13) Operating a motorized personal watercraft within waters of the Sanctuary that are coextensive with the Channel Islands National Park, established by 16 U.S.C. 410(ff).
(b)(1) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(3) through (13) of this section and in § 922.73 do not apply to military activities carried out by DOD as of the effective date of these regulations and specifically identified in section 3.5.9 (Department of Defense Activities) of the Final Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary Management Plan/Final Environmental Impact Statement (FMP/FEIS), Volume II: Environmental Impact Statement, 2008, authored and published by NOAA (“pre-existing activities”). Copies of the document are available from the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary, 113 Harbor Way, Santa Barbara, CA 93109. Other military activities carried out by DOD may be exempted by the Director after consultation between the Director and DOD.
(2) A military activity carried out by DOD as of the effective date of these regulations and specifically identified in the section entitled “Department of Defense Activities” of the FMP/FEIS is not considered a pre-existing activity if:
(i) It is modified in such a way that requires the preparation of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement under the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.,
relevant to a Sanctuary resource or quality;
(ii) It is modified, including but not limited to changes in location or frequency, in such a way that its possible adverse effects on Sanctuary resources or qualities are significantly greater than previously considered for the unmodified activity;
(iii) It is modified, including but not limited to changes in location or frequency, in such a way that its possible adverse effects on Sanctuary resources or qualities are significantly different
in manner than previously considered for the unmodified activity; or
(iv) There are new circumstances or information relevant to a Sanctuary resource or quality that were not addressed in the FMP/FEIS.
(3) In the event of destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an incident, including, but not limited to, discharges, deposits, and groundings, caused by a DOD activity, DOD, in coordination with the Director, must promptly prevent and mitigate further damage and must restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality in a manner approved by the Director.
(4) All DOD activities must be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impacts on Sanctuary resources and qualities.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(3) through (10) and (12) and (13) of this section and in § 922.73 do not apply to any activity specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.74.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(3) through (11) and (a)(13) of this section and in § 922.73 do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.
(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(3) through (11) and (a)(13) of this section and in § 922.73 do not apply to any activity necessary for valid law enforcement purposes in the Sanctuary.
[74 FR 3260, Jan. 16, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 3922, Jan. 26, 2012; 88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.73
Additional prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—marine reserves and marine conservation area.
(a)
Marine reserves.
Unless prohibited by 50 CFR part 660 (Fisheries off West Coast States), the following activities are prohibited and thus unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted within a marine reserve described in appendix B to this subpart, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of § 922.72:
(1) Harvesting, removing, taking, injuring, destroying, collecting, moving, or causing the loss of any Sanctuary resource, or attempting any of these activities.
(2) Possessing fishing gear on board a vessel unless such gear is stowed and not available for immediate use.
(3) Possessing any Sanctuary resource, except legally harvested fish on board a vessel at anchor or in transit.
(b)
Marine conservation area.
Unless prohibited by 50 CFR part 660 (Fisheries off West Coast States), the following activities are prohibited and thus unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted within the marine conservation area described in appendix C to this subpart, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of § 922.72:
(1) Harvesting, removing, taking, injuring, destroying, collecting, moving, or causing the loss of any Sanctuary resource, or attempting any of these activities, except:
(i) Recreational fishing for pelagic finfish; or
(ii) Commercial and recreational fishing for lobster.
(2) Possessing fishing gear on board a vessel, except legal fishing gear used to fish for lobster or pelagic finfish, unless such gear is stowed and not available for immediate use.
(3) Possessing any Sanctuary resource, except legally harvested fish.
[74 FR 3260, Jan. 16, 2009]
§ 922.74
Permit procedures.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.72 or § 922.73 if the activity is specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Permit applications should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary, University of California Santa Barbara, Ocean Science Education Building 514, MC 6155, Santa Barbara, CA 93106-6155.
[88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023]
Pt. 922, Subpt. G, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart G of Part 922—Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
[Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.]
Point
Latitude (N)
Longitude (W)
1
33.94138
−119.27422
2
33.96776
−119.25010
3
34.02607
−119.23642
4
34.07339
−119.25686
5
34.10185
−119.29178
6
34.11523
−119.33040
7
34.11611
−119.39120
8
34.11434
−119.40212
9
34.11712
−119.42896
10
34.11664
−119.44844
11
34.13389
−119.48081
12
34.13825
−119.49198
13
34.14784
−119.51194
14
34.15086
−119.54670
15
34.15450
−119.54670
16
34.15450
−119.59170
17
34.15142
−119.61254
18
34.13411
−119.66024
19
34.14635
−119.69780
20
34.15988
−119.76688
21
34.15906
−119.77800
22
34.15928
−119.79327
23
34.16213
−119.80347
24
34.16962
−119.83643
25
34.17266
−119.85240
26
34.17588
−119.88903
27
34.17682
−119.93357
28
34.17258
−119.95830
29
34.13535
−120.01964
30
34.13698
−120.04206
31
34.12994
−120.08582
32
34.12481
−120.11104
33
34.12519
−120.16076
34
34.11008
−120.21190
35
34.11128
−120.22707
36
34.13632
−120.25292
37
34.15341
−120.28627
38
34.16408
−120.29310
39
34.17704
−120.30670
40
34.20492
−120.30670
41
34.20492
−120.38830
42
34.20707
−120.41801
43
34.20520
−120.42859
44
34.19254
−120.46041
45
34.20540
−120.50728
46
34.20486
−120.53987
47
34.18182
−120.60041
48
34.10208
−120.64208
49
34.08151
−120.63894
50
34.05848
−120.62862
51
34.01940
−120.58567
52
34.01349
−120.57464
53
33.98698
−120.56582
54
33.95039
−120.53282
55
33.92694
−120.46132
56
33.92501
−120.42170
57
33.91403
−120.37585
58
33.91712
−120.32506
59
33.90956
−120.30857
60
33.88976
−120.29540
61
33.84444
−120.25482
62
33.83146
−120.22927
63
33.81763
−120.20284
64
33.81003
−120.18731
65
33.79425
−120.13422
66
33.79379
−120.10207
67
33.79983
−120.06995
68
33.81076
−120.04351
69
33.81450
−120.03158
70
33.84125
−119.96508
71
33.84865
−119.92316
72
33.86993
−119.88330
73
33.86195
−119.88330
74
33.86195
−119.80000
75
33.86110
−119.79017
76
33.86351
−119.77130
77
33.85995
−119.74390
78
33.86233
−119.68783
79
33.87330
−119.65504
80
33.88594
−119.62617
81
33.88688
−119.59423
82
33.88809
−119.58278
83
33.89414
−119.54861
84
33.90064
−119.51936
85
33.90198
−119.51609
86
33.90198
−119.43311
87
33.90584
−119.43311
88
33.90424
−119.42422
89
33.90219
−119.40730
90
33.90131
−119.38373
91
33.90398
−119.36333
92
33.90635
−119.35345
93
33.91304
−119.33280
94
33.91829
−119.32206
95
33.48250
−119.16874
96
33.44235
−119.16797
97
33.40555
−119.14878
98
33.39059
−119.13283
99
33.36804
−119.08891
100
33.36375
−119.06803
101
33.36241
−119.04812
102
33.36320
−119.03670
103
33.36320
−118.90879
104
33.47500
−118.90879
105
33.48414
−118.90712
106
33.52444
−118.91492
107
33.53834
−118.92271
108
33.58616
−118.99540
109
33.59018
−119.02374
110
33.58516
−119.06745
111
33.58011
−119.08521
112
33.54367
−119.14460
113
33.51161
−119.16367
[72 FR 29233, May 24, 2007]
Pt. 922, Subpt. G, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart G of Part 922—Marine Reserve Boundaries
[Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.]

# B.1. Richardson Rock (San Miguel Island) Marine Reserve
The Richardson Rock Marine Reserve (Richardson Rock) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-1, and the following textual description.
The Richardson Rock boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends from Point 2 to Point 3 along a straight line. The boundary then extends
along a straight line from Point 3 to the 3 nmi State boundary established under the Submerged Lands Act (3 nmi State boundary) where a line defined by connecting Point 3 and Point 4 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary then extends northwestward and then eastward along the 3 nmi State boundary until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 5 and Point 6 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi SLA boundary to Point 6 along a straight line.
Table B-1—Richardson Rock (San Miguel Island) Marine Reserve
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
34.17333 ° N
120.60483 ″ W
2
34.17333 ° N
120.47000 ″ W
3
34.12900 ° N
120.47000 ″ W
4
34.03685 ° N
120.52120 ″ W
5
34.03685 ° N
120.60483 ″ W
6
34.17333 ° N
120.60483 ″ W

# B.2. Harris Point (San Miguel Island) Marine Reserve
The Harris Point Marine Reserve (Harris Point) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-2, and the following textual description.
The Harris Point boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary then follows the 3 nmi State boundary northwestward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.
Table B-2—Harris Point (San Miguel Island) Marine Reserve
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
34.20492 ° N
120.38830 ″ W
2
34.20492 ° N
120.30670 ″ W
3
34.10260 ° N
120.30670 ″ W
4
34.15200 ° N
120.38830 ″ W
5
34.20492 ° N
120.38830 ″ W

# B.3. South Point (Santa Rosa Island) Marine Reserve
The South Point Marine Reserve (South Point) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-3, and the following textual description.
The South Point boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary southeastward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 along a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.
Table B-3—South Point (Santa Rosa Island) Marine Reserve
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
33.84000 ° N
120.10830 ″ W
2
33.84000 ° N
120.16670 ″ W
3
33.86110 ° N
120.16670 ″ W
4
33.84700 ° N
120.10830 ″ W
5
33.84000 ° N
120.10830 ″ W

# B.4. Gull Island (Santa Cruz Island) Marine Reserve
The Gull Island Marine Reserve (Gull Island) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-4, and the following textual description.
The Gull Island boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary then follows the 3 nmi State boundary westward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.
Table B-4—Gull Island (Santa Cruz Island) Marine Reserve
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
33.86195 ° N
119.80000 ″ W
2
33.86195 ° N
119.88330 ″ W
3
33.92690 ° N
119.88330 ″ W
4
33.90700 ° N
119.80000 ″ W
5
33.86195 ° N
119.80000 ″ W

# B.5. Scorpion (Santa Cruz Island) Marine Reserve
The Scorpion Marine Reserve (Scorpion) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-5, and the following textual description.
The Scorpion boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary then follows the 3
nmi State boundary westward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.
Table B-5—Scorpion (Santa Cruz Island) Marine Reserve
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
34.15450 ° N
119.59170 ″ W
2
34.15450 ° N
119.54670 ″ W
3
34.10140 ° N
119.54670 ″ W
4
34.10060 ° N
119.59170 ″ W
5
34.15450 ° N
119.59170 ″ W

# B.6. Footprint Marine Reserve
The Footprint Marine Reserve (Footprint) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-6, and the following textual description.
The Footprint boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary northeastward and then southeastward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 along a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.
Table B-6—Footprint Marine Reserve
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
33.90198 ° N
119.43311 ″ W
2
33.90198 ° N
119.51609 ″ W
3
33.96120 ° N
119.51609 ″ W
4
33.95710 ° N
119.43311 ″ W
5
33.90198 ° N
119.43311 ″ W

# B.7. Anacapa Island Marine Reserve
The Anacapa Island Marine Reserve (Anacapa Island) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-7, and the following textual description.
The Anacapa Island boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends to the 3 nmi State boundary where a linedefined by connecting Point 2 and Pont 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary westward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.
Table B-7—Anacapa Island Marine Reserve
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
34.08330 ° N
119.41000 ″ W
2
34.08330 ° N
119.35670 ″ W
3
34.06450 ° N
119.35670 ″ W
4
34.06210 ° N
119.41000 ″ W
5
34.08330 ° N
119.41000 ″ W

# B.8. Santa Barbara Island Marine Reserve
The Santa Barbara Island Marine Reserve (Santa Barbara) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-8, and the following textual description.
The Santa Barbara boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary northeastward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line. The boundary then extends from Point 5 to Point 6 along a straight line.
Table B-8—Santa Barbara Island Marine Reserve
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
33.36320 ° N
118.90879 ″ W
2
33.36320 ° N
119.03670 ″ W
3
33.41680 ° N
119.03670 ″ W
4
33.47500 ° N
118.97080 ″ W
5
33.47500 ° N
118.90879 ″ W
6
33.36320 ° N
118.90879 ″ W
[72 FR 29233, May 24, 2007]
Pt. 922, Subpt. G, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart G of Part 922—Marine Conservation Area Boundary

# C.1. Anacapa Island Marine Conservation Area
The Anacapa Island Marine Conservation Area (AIMCA) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table C-1, and the following textual description.
The AIMCA boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary westward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the
3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.
Table C-1—Anacapa Island Marine Conservation Area
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
34.08330 ° N
119.44500 ″ W
2
34.08330 ° N
119.41000 ″ W
3
34.06210 ° N
119.41000 ″ W
4
34.06300 ° N
119.44500 ″ W
5
34.08330 ° N
119.44500 ″ W
[72 FR 29233, May 24, 2007; 72 FR 42317, Aug. 2, 2007]

# Subpart H—Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
80 FR 13108, Mar. 12, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to subpart H appear at 80 FR 34048, June 15, 2015.
§ 922.80
Boundary.
(a) Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) encompasses an area of approximately 2,488 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (3,295 sq. mi.) of coastal and ocean waters, and submerged lands thereunder, surrounding the Farallon Islands and Noonday Rock along the northern coast of California. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart.
(b) The western boundary of the Sanctuary extends south from Point 1 approximately 45 nautical miles (52 miles) to Point 2, which is the northwestern corner of Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary (CBNMS). The Sanctuary boundary then extends from Point 2 approximately 38 nautical miles (43 miles) east along the northern boundary of CBNMS to Point 3, which is approximately 6 nautical miles (7 miles) west of Bodega Head. From Point 3 the Sanctuary boundary continues south and west to Points 4 through 19 (in numerical sequence) and is coterminous with the eastern boundary of CBNMS. From Point 19 the Sanctuary boundary continues south and east to Points 20 through 25 (in numerical sequence) until it intersects the boundary for Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary (MBNMS) at Point 26. From Point 26 the Sanctuary boundary extends eastward and northward, coterminous with MBNMS, to Points 27 through 33 (in numerical sequence). From Point 33 the boundary proceeds along a straight line arc towards Point 34 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Rocky Point, California. From this intersection the Sanctuary boundary follows the Mean High Water Line northward until it intersects the boundary for Point Reyes National Seashore approximately 0.7 nautical miles (0.8 miles) south and east of Bolinas Point in Marin County, California. The Sanctuary boundary then approximates the boundary for Point Reyes National Seashore, as established at the time of designation of the Sanctuary, to the intersection of the Point Reyes National Seashore boundary and the Mean High Water Line approximately 0.13 nautical miles (0.15 miles) south and east of Duck Cove in Tomales Bay. The Sanctuary boundary then follows the Mean High Water Line along Tomales Bay and up Lagunitas Creek to the U.S. Highway 1 Bridge. Here the Sanctuary boundary crosses Lagunitas Creek and follows the Mean High Water Line north to the Estero de San Antonio and up the Estero to the tide gate at Valley Ford-Franklin School Road. Here the Sanctuary boundary crosses the Estero de San Antonio and proceeds west and north following the Mean High Water Line to the Estero Americano and up the Estero to the bridge at Valley Ford-Estero Road. Here the Sanctuary boundary crosses the Estero Americano and proceeds west and north following the Mean High Water Line towards Salmon Creek. Approaching Salmon Creek the boundary continues along the Mean High Water Line until it intersects a straight line arc that passes through Points 35 and 36. From that intersection the boundary extends across the creek along the straight line arc towards Point 36 until it again intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the boundary follows the Mean High Water Line north towards the Russian River. Approaching the Russian River the boundary continues along the Mean High Water Line until it intersects a straight line arc that passes through Points 37 and Point 38.
At that intersection the boundary extends across the river along the straight line arc towards Point 38 until it again intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the boundary follows the Mean High Water Line north towards the Gualala River. Approaching the Gualala River the boundary continues along the Mean High Water Line until it intersects a straight line arc that passes through Points 39 and Point 40. At that intersection the boundary extends across the river along the straight line arc towards Point 40 until it again intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the boundary follows the Mean High Water Line north to Arena Cove in Mendocino County. Approaching Arena Cove the boundary continues along the Mean High Water Line until it intersects a straight line arc that passes through Points 41 and Point 42. At that intersection the boundary extends across the cove along the straight line arc towards Point 42 until it again intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the boundary follows the Mean High Water Line north towards the Garcia River. Approaching the Garcia River the boundary continues along the Mean High Water Line until it intersects a straight line arc that passes through Points 43 and Point 44. At that intersection the boundary extends across the river along the straight line arc towards Point 44 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. The Sanctuary boundary then continues north following the Mean High Water Line until it intersects the rhumb line connecting Point 45 and Point 46. From this intersection the Sanctuary boundary continues west along its northernmost extent to Point 46. The Sanctuary includes Bolinas Lagoon, Estero de San Antonio (to the tide gate at Valley Ford-Franklin School Road) and Estero Americano (to the bridge at Valley Ford-Estero Road), as well as Bodega Bay, but does not include Bodega Harbor, the Salmon Creek Estuary, the Russian River Estuary, the Gualala River Estuary, Arena Cove, or the Garcia River Estuary. Unless otherwise specified, where the Sanctuary boundary crosses a waterway, the Sanctuary excludes this waterway upstream of the crossing.
[80 FR 13108, Mar. 12, 2015; 88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.81
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions found at § 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
Motorized personal watercraft
means a vessel which uses an inboard motor powering a water jet pump as its primary source of motive power and which is designed to be operated by a person sitting, standing, or kneeling on the vessel, rather than the conventional manner of sitting or standing inside the vessel.
Routine maintenance
means customary and standard procedures for maintaining docks or piers.
Special Wildlife Protection Zones
are areas surrounding or adjacent to high abundance of white sharks, breeding pinnipeds (seals and sea lions) or high abundance and high biological diversity of breeding birds that are susceptible to human caused disturbance, including federally listed and specially protected species. Coordinates for Special Wildlife Protection Zones are found in appendix C of this Subpart.
[80 FR 13108, Mar. 12, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19826, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.82
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) The following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within the Sanctuary:
(1) Exploring for, developing, or producing oil, gas or minerals.
(2) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary, other than from a cruise ship, any material or other matter except:
(i) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials or bait used in or resulting from lawful fishing activities within the Sanctuary, provided that such discharge or deposit is during the conduct of lawful fishing activity within the Sanctuary;
(ii) For a vessel less than 300 gross registered tons (GRT), or a vessel 300 GRT or greater without sufficient holding tank capacity to hold sewage while
within the Sanctuary, clean effluent generated incidental to vessel use by an operable Type I or II marine sanitation device (U.S. Coast Guard classification) that is approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1322. Vessel operators must lock all marine sanitation devices in a manner that prevents discharge or deposit of untreated sewage;
(iii) Clean vessel deck wash down, clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, clean bilge water, or anchor wash;
(iv) For a vessel less than 300 GRT or a vessel 300 GRT or greater without sufficient holding capacity to hold graywater while within the Sanctuary, clean graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA;
(v) Vessel engine or generator exhaust; or
(vi) For a United States Coast Guard vessel without sufficient holding tank capacity and without a Type I or II marine sanitation device, and operating within the designated area [2015 expansion area] defined in appendix G of this subpart, sewage and non-clean graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA generated incidental to vessel use, and ammunition, pyrotechnics or other materials directly related to search and rescue and live ammunition training activities conducted by United States Coast Guard vessels and aircraft in the designated areas defined in appendix G of this subpart.
(3) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary any material or other matter from a cruise ship except clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, vessel engine or generator exhaust, clean bilge water, or anchor wash.
(4) Discharging or depositing, from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except for the material or other matter excepted in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (vi) and (a)(3) of this section.
(5) Constructing any structure other than a navigation aid on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary; placing or abandoning any structure on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary; or drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the submerged lands of the Sanctuary in any way, except:
(i) By anchoring vessels (in a manner not otherwise prohibited by this part (see paragraph (a)(16) of this section);
(ii) While conducting lawful fishing activities;
(iii) Routine maintenance and construction of docks and piers on Tomales Bay; or
(iv) Aquaculture activities conducted pursuant to a valid lease, permit, license or other authorization issued by the State of California.
(6) Operating motorized personal watercraft (MPWC) anywhere in Bodega Bay and anywhere in the Sanctuary south of 38.29800 degrees North Latitude (the southernmost tip of Bodega Head), except for emergency search and rescue missions or law enforcement operations (other than routine training activities) carried out by the National Park Service, U.S. Coast Guard, Fire or Police Departments or other Federal, State or local jurisdictions.
(7) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird within or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
Endangered Species Act (ESA), as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.,
or any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.
(8) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken, moved or removed from), any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird taken, except as authorized by the MMPA, ESA, MBTA, by any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA, or as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.
(9) Possessing, moving, removing, or injuring, or attempting to possess, move, remove or injure, a Sanctuary historical resource.
(10) Introducing or otherwise releasing from within or into the Sanctuary an introduced species, except:
(i) Striped bass (
Morone saxatilis
) released during catch and release fishing activity; or
(ii) Species cultivated by commercial shellfish aquaculture activities in Tomales Bay pursuant to a valid lease, permit, license or other authorization issued by the State of California. Tomales Bay is defined in § 922.80. The coordinates for the northern terminus of Tomales Bay are listed in appendix C to this subpart.
(11) Disturbing marine mammals or seabirds by flying motorized aircraft at less than 1,000 feet over the waters within any of the seven designated Special Wildlife Protection Zones described in appendix D to this subpart, except transiting Zone 6 to transport persons or supplies to or from Southeast Farallon Island authorized by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Farallon National Wildlife Refuge, or for enforcement purposes. Failure to maintain a minimum altitude of 1,000 feet above ground level over such waters is presumed to disturb marine mammals or seabirds.
(12) Operating any vessel engaged in the trade of carrying cargo within any area designated Special Wildlife Protection Zone or within one nautical mile from these zones. The coordinates are listed in appendix E to this subpart. This includes but is not limited to tankers and other bulk carriers and barges, or any vessel engaged in the trade of servicing offshore installations, except to transport persons or supplies to or from the Farallon Islands. In no event shall this section be construed to limit access for fishing, recreational or research vessels.
(13) Attracting a white shark anywhere in the Sanctuary; or approaching within 50 meters of any white shark within Special Wildlife Protection Zone 6 and 7 or within one nautical mile from these zones The coordinates are listed in appendix F to this subpart.
(14) Deserting a vessel aground, at anchor, or adrift in the Sanctuary.
(15) Leaving harmful matter aboard a grounded or deserted vessel in the Sanctuary.
(16) Anchoring a vessel in a designated seagrass protection zone in Tomales Bay, except as necessary for aquaculture operations conducted pursuant to a valid lease, permit or license. The coordinates for the no-anchoring seagrass protection zones are listed in Appendix B to this subpart.
(17) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying, or preventing an investigation, search, seizure, or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act.
(b) All activities currently carried out by the Department of Defense within the Sanctuary are essential for the national defense and, therefore, not subject to the prohibitions in this section. The exemption of additional activities shall be determined in consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to activities necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property or the environment, or except as may be permitted by the Director in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (9) and (11) through (16) of this section do not apply to any activity executed in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued in accordance with subpart D of this part and § 922.83, or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.
[80 FR 13108, Mar. 12, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 55966, Nov. 9, 2018; 88 FR 965, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19826, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.83
Permit procedures and issuance criteria.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.82(a)(2) through (9) and (11) through (16) if such activity is specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary, 991 Marine
Dr., The Presidio, San Francisco, CA 94129.
[88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 19826, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.84
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
(a) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by § 922.82(a)(1) through (17) if such activity is specifically authorized by a valid Federal, State, or local lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization in existence prior to the June 9, 2015 effective date of sanctuary expansion and within the sanctuary expansion area and complies with § 922.10 and provided that the holder of the lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization complies with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) In considering whether to make the certifications called for in this section, the Director may seek and consider the views of any other person or entity, within or outside the Federal government, and may hold a public hearing as deemed appropriate.
(c) The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke any certification made under this section whenever continued operation would otherwise be inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the certification. Any such action shall be forwarded in writing to both the holder of the certified permit, license, or other authorization and the issuing agency and shall set forth reason(s) for the action taken.
(d) Requests for findings or certifications should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Sanctuary Superintendent, Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary, 991 Marine Drive, The Presidio, San Francisco, CA 94129. A copy of the lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization must accompany the request.
(e) For an activity described in paragraph (a) of this section, the holder of the authorization or right may conduct the activity prohibited by § 922.82 (a)(1) through (17) provided that:
(1) The holder of such authorization or right notifies the Director, in writing, within 90 days of the effective date of Sanctuary designation, of the existence of such authorization or right and requests certification of such authorization or right;
(2) The holder complies with the other provisions of this section; and
(3) The holder complies with any terms and conditions on the exercise of such authorization or right imposed as a condition of certification, by the Director, to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated.
(f) The holder of an authorization or right described in paragraph (a) of this section authorizing an activity prohibited by § 922.82 may conduct the activity without being in violation of applicable provisions of § 922.82, pending final agency action on his or her certification request, provided the holder is otherwise in compliance with this section.
(g) The Director may request additional information from the certification requester as he or she deems reasonably necessary to condition appropriately the exercise of the certified authorization or right to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated. The Director must receive the information requested within 45 days of the postmark date of the request. The Director may seek the views of any persons on the certification request.
(h) The Director may amend any certification made under this section whenever additional information becomes available that he determines justifies such an amendment.
(i) Upon completion of review of the authorization or right and information received with respect thereto, the Director shall communicate, in writing, any decision on a certification request or any action taken with respect to any certification made under this section, in writing, to both the holder of the certified lease, permit, license, approval, other authorization, or right, and the issuing agency, and shall set forth the reason(s) for the decision or action taken.
(j) The holder may appeal any action conditioning, amending, suspending, or revoking any certification in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 922.37.
(k) Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section may be extended by the Director for good cause.
[80 FR 13108, Mar. 12, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 19829, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.85
Review of State permits and leases for certain aquaculture projects.
NOAA has described in a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the State of California how the State will consult and coordinate with NOAA to review any new, amended or expanded lease or permit application for aquaculture projects in Tomales Bay involving introduced species.
Pt. 922, Subpt. H, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart H of Part 922—Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
39.00000
−124.33350
2
38.29989
−123.99988
3
38.29989
−123.20005
4
38.26390
−123.18138
5
38.21001
−123.11913
6
38.16576
−123.09207
7
38.14072
−123.08237
8
38.12829
−123.08742
9
38.10215
−123.09804
10
38.09069
−123.10387
11
38.07898
−123.10924
12
38.06505
−123.11711
13
38.05202
−123.12827
14
37.99227
−123.14137
15
37.98947
−123.23615
16
37.95880
−123.32312
17
37.90464
−123.38958
18
37.83480
−123.42579
19
37.76687
−123.42694
20
37.75932
−123.42686
21
37.68892
−123.39274
22
37.63356
−123.32819
23
37.60123
−123.24292
24
37.59165
−123.22641
25
37.56305
−123.19859
26
37.52001
−123.12879
27
37.50819
−123.09617
28
37.49418
−123.00770
29
37.50948
−122.90614
30
37.52988
−122.85988
31
37.57147
−122.80399
32
37.61622
−122.76937
33
37.66641
−122.75105
34 *
37.88225
−122.62753
35 *
38.35045
−123.06711
36 *
38.35665
−123.06724
37 *
38.44575
−123.12602
38 *
38.45531
−123.13469
39 *
38.76231
−123.52957
40 *
38.76941
−123.53541
41 *
38.91136
−123.71061
42 *
38.91766
−123.72568
43 *
38.95404
−123.73405
44 *
38.95944
−123.71820
45 *
39.00000
−123.69710
46
39.00000
−124.33350
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the sanctuary boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
Pt. 922, Subpt. H, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart H of Part 922—No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zones in Tomales Bay
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
(1) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 1 encompasses an area of approximately .11 square nautical miles (.15 square miles) offshore south of Millerton Point. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The eastern boundary is a straight line arc that connects points 1 and 2 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary is a straight line arc that connects points 2 and 3, the western boundary is a straight line arc that connects points 3 and 4 and the northern boundary is a straight line arc that connects point 4 to point 5.
Zone 1 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.10571
−122.84565
2
38.09888
−122.83603
3
38.09878
−122.84431
4
38.10514
−122.84904
5
38.10571
−122.84565
(2) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 2 encompasses an area of approximately .15 square nautical miles (.19 square miles) that begins just south of Marconi and extends approximately 1.6 nautical miles (1.9 miles) south along the eastern shore of Tomales Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary is a series of straight line arcs that sequentially connect point 1 to point 5 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary is a straight line arc that extends from point 5 towards point 6 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the eastern boundary follows the Mean High Water Line north until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 7 to point 8. From this intersection the northern boundary extends to point 8.
Zone 2 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.13326
−122.87178
2
38.12724
−122.86488
3
38.12563
−122.86480
4
38.11899
−122.86731
5
38.11386
−122.85851
6 *
38.11608
−122.85813
7 *
38.14078
−122.87433
8
38.13326
−122.87178
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(3) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 3 encompasses an area of approximately .01 square nautical miles (.02 square miles) that begins just south of Marshall and extends approximately .5 nautical miles (.6 miles) south along the eastern shore of Tomales Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary is a straight line arc that connects point 1 to point 2 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary is a straight line arc that extends from point 2 towards point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the eastern boundary follows the Mean High Water Line northward until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 4 to point 5. From this intersection the northern boundary extends westward along the straight line arc that connects point 4 to point 5.
Zone 3 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.15956
−122.89573
2
38.15250
−122.89042
3 *
38.15292
−122.88984
4 *
38.16031
−122.89442
5
38.15956
−122.89573
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(4) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 4 is an area of approximately .18 square nautical miles (.21 square miles) that begins just north of Nicks Cove and extends approximately 2.7 nautical miles (3.1 miles) south along the eastern shore of Tomales Bay to just south of Cypress Grove. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary is a series of straight line arcs that sequentially connect point 1 to point 8 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary is a straight line arc that extends from point 8 towards point 9 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the eastern boundary follows the Mean High Water Line north until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 10 to point 11. From this intersection the northern boundary extends westward along the straight line arc that connects point 10 to point 11.
Zone 4 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.20004
−122.92315
2
38.18881
−122.91740
3
38.18651
−122.91404
4
38.17919
−122.91021
5
38.17450
−122.90545
6
38.16869
−122.90475
7
38.16535
−122.90308
8
38.16227
−122.89650
9 *
38.16266
−122.89620
10 *
38.20080
−122.92174
11
38.20004
−122.92315
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(5) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 5 encompasses an area of approximately 1.3 square nautical miles (1.6 square miles) that begins east of Lawson's Landing and extends approximately 2.7 nautical miles (3.1 miles) east and south along the eastern shore of Tomales Bay but excludes areas adjacent (approximately .32 nautical miles or .37 miles) to the mouth of Walker Creek. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary is a series of straight line arcs that sequentially connect point 1 to point 3 listed in the coordinate table below. From point 3 the southern boundary trends eastward along the straight line arc that connects point 3 to point 4 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the boundary follows the Mean High Water Line northward until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 5 to point 6. From this intersection the boundary extends westward along the straight line arc that connects point 5 to point 6. From point 6 the boundary follows the straight line arc that connects point 6 to point 7, and then extends along the straight line arc that connects point 7 to point 8 until it again intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the boundary follows the Mean High Water Line until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 9 to point 10. From this intersection the boundary extends to point 10 along the straight line arc that connects point 9 to point 10.
Zone 5 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.21825
−122.96041
2
38.20666
−122.94397
3
38.19431
−122.93431
4 *
38.20080
−122.92174
5 *
38.20522
−122.92446
6
38.20366
−122.93246
7
38.20938
−122.94153
8 *
38.21599
−122.93742
9 *
38.23129
−122.96293
10
38.21825
−122.96041
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(6) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 6 encompasses an area of approximately .01 square nautical miles (.02 square miles) in the vicinity of Indian Beach along the western shore of Tomales Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The eastern boundary is a straight line arc that connects point 1 to point 2 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary extends westward along the straight line arc that connects point 2 to point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the eastern boundary follows the Mean High Water Line northward until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 3 to point 4. From this intersection the northern boundary extends eastward along the straight line arc that connects point 4 to point 5.
Zone 6 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.14103
−122.89537
2
38.13919
−122.89391
3 *
38.13804
−122.89610
4 *
38.14033
−122.89683
5
38.14103
−122.89537
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(7) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 7 encompasses an area of approximately .09 square nautical miles (.12 square miles) that begins just south of Pebble Beach and extends approximately 1.6 nautical miles (1.9 miles) south along the western shore of Tomales Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The eastern boundary is a series of straight line arcs that sequentially connect point 1 to point 5 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary extends along the straight line arc that connects point 5 to point 6 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the western boundary extends north along the Mean High Water Line until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 7 to point 8. From this intersection the northern boundary extends eastward along the straight line arc that connects point 7 to point 8.
Zone 7 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.13067
−122.88620
2
38.12362
−122.87984
3
38.11916
−122.87491
4
38.11486
−122.86896
5
38.11096
−122.86468
6 *
38.11027
−122.86551
7 *
38.13001
−122.88749
8
38.13067
−122.88620
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
Pt. 922, Subpt. H, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart H of Part 922—Northern Extent of Tomales Bay
For the purpose of § 922.82(a)(10)(ii), NOAA is codifying the northern geographical extent of Tomales Bay via a line running from Avalis Beach (Point 1) east to Sand Point (Point 2). Coordinates listed in this Appendix are unprojected (geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Point
ID No. Tomales Bay
Boundary
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.23165
−122.98148
2
38.23165
−122.96955
Pt. 922, Subpt. H, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart H of Part 922—Special Wildlife Protection Zones Within the Sanctuary
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
(1) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 1 (SWPZ 1) encompasses an area of approximately 7.9 square nautical miles (10.5 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 1 extends south from Point 1, west of Haven's Neck in Mendocino County, to Point 2, west of Del Mar Point. The boundary then extends east from Point 2 along a straight line arc connecting Point 2 and Point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Del Mar Point. The SWPZ 1 boundary then turns north to follow the Mean High Water Line towards Haven's Neck and continues until it intersects a straight line arc connecting Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the Sanctuary boundary continues west along its northernmost extent to Point 5.
Zone 1 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.80865
−123.63227
2
38.74096
−123.54306
3 *
38.74096
−123.51051
4 *
38.80865
−123.60195
5
38.80865
−123.63227
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(2) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 2 (SWPZ 2) encompasses an area of approximately 16.2 square nautical miles (21.4 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 2 extends south and east from Point 1, south of Windermere Point in Sonoma County, to Point 2 and then to Point 3 in sequence. Point 3 is west of Duncans Point in Sonoma County. The boundary then extends east from Point 3 along a straight line arc connecting Point 3 and Point 4 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Duncans Point. The boundary then turns north to follow the Mean High Water Line towards Windermere Point until it intersects a straight line arc connecting Point 5 and Point 6. From this intersection the boundary continues due south along a straight line arc to Point 6.
Zone 2 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.49854
−123.26804
2
38.45095
−123.18564
3
38.39311
−123.12068
4 *
38.39311
−123.09527
5 *
38.52487
−123.26804
6
38.49854
−123.26804
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(3) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 3 (SWPZ 3) encompasses an area of approximately 7 square nautical miles (9.3 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 3 extends south and east from Point 1, southwest of the Estero de San Antonio in Sonoma County, to Point 2, south of Tomales Point in Marin County. The boundary then extends north and east from Point 2 along a straight line arc connecting Point 2 and Point 3 until it intersects the boundary of the Point Reyes National Seashore. From this intersection the SWPZ 3 boundary follows the Point Reyes National Seashore boundary around Tomales Point into Tomales Bay and continues until it again intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 2 and Point 3. From this intersection the SWPZ 3 boundary follows the straight line arc north and east toward Point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Toms Point in Tomales Bay. The SWPZ 3 boundary then follows the Mean High Water Line northward towards the Estero de San Antonio until it intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the Sanctuary boundary continues south and west to Point 5.
Zone 3 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.24001
−123.02963
2
38.19249
−122.99523
3 *
38.21544
−122.95286
4 *
38.27011
−122.97840
5
38.24001
−123.02963
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(4) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 4 (SWPZ 4) encompasses an area of approximately 10.2 square nautical miles (13.5 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are list in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 4 extends south and west from Point 1, west of Point Reyes in Marin County, to Point 2, south and west of Point Reyes Lighthouse. The boundary then follows a straight line arc east and south from Point 2 to Point 3. From Point 3 the boundary follows a straight line arc north to Point 4. From Point 4 the SWPZ 4 boundary proceeds west along the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5 until it intersects the Point Reyes National Seashore boundary north of Chimney Rock. The SWPZ 4 boundary then follows the Point Reyes National Seashore boundary around Point Reyes until it again intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5 north of the Point Reyes Lighthouse. From this intersection the SWPZ 4 boundary turns seaward and continues west to Point 5.
Zone 4 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.01475
−123.05013
2
37.97536
−123.05482
3
37.96521
−122.93771
4
38.00555
−122.93504
5
38.01475
−123.05013
(5) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 5 (SWPZ 5) encompasses an area of approximately 14.8 square nautical miles (19.6 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 5 extends south and east from Point 1, near Millers Point in Marin County, to Point 2, which is south and west of Bolinas Point. The SWPZ 5 boundary then follows a straight line arc east from Point 2 towards Point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Rocky Point. From this intersection, the SWPZ 5 boundary follows the Sanctuary boundary north to Bolinas Point and Millers Point, respectively, including Bolinas Lagoon but not including Seadrift Lagoon, until it intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the SWPZ 5 boundary turns seaward and continues west and south along the straight line arc to Point 5.
Zone 5 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.96579
−122.83284
2
37.88195
−122.73989
3 *
37.88195
−122.62873
4 *
37.98234
−122.81513
5
37.96579
−122.83284
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(6) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 6 (SWPZ 6) encompasses an area of approximately 6.8 square nautical miles (9 square miles) and extends from the Mean High Water Line seaward to the SWPZ 6 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary of SWPZ 6 extends south and west from Point 1, north of Southeast Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.
Zone 6 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.72976
−123.00961
2
37.69697
−123.04374
3
37.66944
−123.00176
4
37.70246
−122.96608
5
37.72976
−123.00961
(7) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 7 (SWPZ 7) encompasses an area of approximately 6 square nautical miles (7.9 square miles) and extends from the Mean High Water Line seaward to the SWPZ 7 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary of SWPZ 7 extends south and west from Point 1, north of North Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.
Zone 7 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.79568
−123.10845
2
37.76746
−123.13869
3
37.73947
−123.09341
4
37.76687
−123.06330
5
37.79568
−123.10845
Pt. 922, Subpt. H, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart H of Part 922—Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zones in the Sanctuary
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
(1) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 1 (CVPZ 1) is an area of approximately 20 square nautical miles (26 square miles) immediately offshore of Anchor Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of extends south and east from Point 1, north and west of Haven's Neck, to Point 2, west and south of Del Mar Point. The CVPZ 1 boundary then extends east from Point 2 along a straight line arc connecting Point 2 and Point 3 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary. The CVPZ 1 boundary then turns north to follow the Sanctuary boundary past Haven's Neck and continues until it intersects the straight line arc connecting Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the CVPZ 1 boundary continues west along its northernmost extent to Point 5.
Zone 1 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.82485
−123.68420
2
38.72330
−123.55145
3 *
38.72330
−123.47658
4 *
38.82485
−123.60953
5
38.82485
−123.68420
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(2) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 2 (CVPZ 2) encompasses an area of approximately 30 square nautical miles (40 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western CVPZ 2 boundary extends south and east from Point 1, west of Windermere Point in Sonoma County, to Point 2 and then to Point 3 in sequence. Point 3 is west of Duncans Point in Sonoma County. The CVPZ 2 boundary then extends east from Point 3 along a straight line arc connecting Point 3 and Point 4 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary south of Duncans Point. The CVPZ 2 boundary then turns north to follow the Sanctuary boundary past Windermere Point until it intersects the straight line arc connecting Point 5 and Point 6. From this intersection the CVPZ 2 boundary continues due south along this straight line arc to Point 6.
Zone 2 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.48995
−123.28994
2
38.43749
−123.19789
3
38.37614
−123.13153
4 *
38.37614
−123.07843
5 *
38.54099
−123.28994
6
38.48995
−123.28994
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(3) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 3 (CVPZ 3) encompasses an area of approximately 17 square nautical miles (22 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western CVPZ 3 boundary extends south and
east from Point 1, west of the Estero de San Antonio in Sonoma County, to Point 2, south of Tomales Point in Marin County. The CVPZ 3 boundary then extends north and east from Point 2 along a straight line arc connecting Point 2 and Point 3 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary. From this intersection the CVPZ 3 boundary follows the Sanctuary boundary around Tomales Point into Tomales Bay and continues until it again intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 2 and Point 3. From this intersection the CVPZ 3 boundary follows the straight line arc north and east across Tomales Bay until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary south of Toms Point in Tomales Bay. The CVPZ 3 boundary then follows the Sanctuary boundary northward past the Estero de San Antonio until it intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the boundary continues south and west to Point 5.
Zone 3 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.24496
−123.05698
2
38.16758
−123.00179
3 *
38.21170
−122.92566
4 *
38.28215
−122.99278
5
38.24496
−123.05698
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(4) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 4 (CVPZ 4) encompasses an area of approximately 28 square nautical miles (37 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western CVPZ 4 boundary extends south and west from Point 1, west and north of Point Reyes in Marin County, to Point 2, south and west of Point Reyes Lighthouse. The CVPZ 4 boundary then follows a straight line arc east and south from Point 2 to Point 3. From Point 3 the CVPZ 4 boundary follows a straight line arc north to Point 4. From Point 4 the CVPZ 4 boundary proceeds west along the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary at Drakes Beach. The CVPZ 4 boundary then follows the Sanctuary boundary around Point Reyes until it again intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5, north of the Point Reyes Lighthouse. From this intersection the CVPZ 4 boundary turns seaward and continues west to Point 5 along this arc.
Zone 4 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.03311
−123.06923
2
37.96053
−123.07801
3
37.94655
−122.91781
4
38.02026
−122.91261
5
38.03311
−123.06923
(5) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 5 (CVPZ 5) encompasses an area of approximately 29 square nautical miles (39 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western CVPZ 5 boundary extends south and east from Point 1, west of Millers Point in Marin County, to Point 2, south and west of Bolinas Point. The CVPZ 5 boundary then follows a straight line arc east from Point 2 towards Point 3 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary. From this intersection, the CVPZ 5 boundary follows the Sanctuary boundary north towards Rocky Point and continues along the Sanctuary boundary past Bolinas Point and Millers Point, respectively, including Bolinas Lagoon but not including Seadrift Lagoon, until it intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the CVPZ 5 boundary turns seaward and continues west and south along the straight line arc to Point 5.
Zone 5 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.96598
−122.85997
2
37.86532
−122.74797
3 *
37.86532
−122.63720
4 *
37.99449
−122.82841
5
37.96598
−122.85997
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the zone boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.
(6) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 6 (CVPZ 6) encompasses an area of approximately 21 square nautical miles (28 square miles) surrounding Southeast Farallon Island and extends from the Mean High Water Line to the CVPZ 6 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary extends south and west from Point 1, north of Southeast Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.
Zone 6 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.75264
−123.01175
2
37.69461
−123.07333
3
37.64621
−122.99867
4
37.70538
−122.93567
5
37.75264
−123.01175
(7) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 7 (CVPZ 7) encompasses an area of approximately 20 square nautical miles (26 square miles) surrounding the North Farallon Islands and extends from the Mean High Water Line to the CVPZ 7 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary extends south and west from Point 1, north of North
Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.
Zone 7 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.81914
−123.11155
2
37.76497
−123.16939
3
37.71623
−123.09089
4
37.76872
−123.03359
5
37.81914
−123.11155
Pt. 922, Subpt. H, App. F

# Appendix F to Subpart H of Part 922—White Shark Approach Prohibition Zones in the Sanctuary
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
(1) White Shark Approach Prohibition Zone 1 (WSAPZ 1) encompasses an area of approximately 21 square nautical miles (28 square miles) surrounding Southeast Farallon Island and extends from the Mean High Water Line to the WSAPZ 1 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary extends south and west from Point 1, north of Southeast Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.
Zone 1 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.75264
−123.01175
2
37.69461
−123.07333
3
37.64621
−122.99867
4
37.70538
−122.93567
5
37.75264
−123.01175
(2) White Shark Approach Prohibition Zone 2 (WSAPZ 2) encompasses an area of approximately 20 square nautical miles (26 square miles) surrounding the North Farallon Islands and extends from the Mean High Water Line to the WSAPZ 2 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary extends south and west from Point 1, north of North Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.
Zone 2 Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.81914
−123.11155
2
37.76497
−123.16939
3
37.71623
−123.09089
4
37.76872
−123.03359
5
37.81914
−123.11155

# Appendix G to Subpart H of Part 922—Designated Area for Certain United States Coast Guard Discharges
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic Coordinate System) and based on the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83).
The portion of the Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary area [2015 expansion area] where the exception for discharges from United States Coast Guard activities applies is defined as follows. Beginning with Point 1 identified in the coordinate table in this appendix, the boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 in a straight line arc, and continues from Point 2 to Point 3 in a straight line arc, and from Point 3 to Point 4 in a straight line arc. From Point 4 the boundary extends east and north along a straight line arc towards Point 5 until it intersects the fixed offshore boundary between the United States and California (approximately 3 NM seaward of the coast as defined in
United States
vs.
California,
135 S. Ct. 563 (2014)). The boundary then extends northward following the fixed offshore boundary between the United States and California until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 6 and Point 7. From this intersection, the boundary extends west along the northern boundary of Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary to Point 7 where it ends.
Point No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
39.00000
−124.33350
2
38.29989
−123.99988
3
38.29989
−123.20005
4
38.26390
−123.18138
5
1
38.29896
−123.05989
6
1
39.00000
−123.75777
7
39.00000
−124.33350
1
These coordinates are not a part of the boundary for the Designated Area for Certain United States Coast Guard Discharges. These coordinates are reference points used to draw line segments that intersect with the fixed offshore boundary between the United States and California.
[83 FR 55966, Nov. 9, 2018]

# Subpart I—Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
71 FR 60063, Oct. 12, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.90
Boundary.
The Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) consists of approximately 16.68 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (22 sq. mi.) of ocean waters and the submerged lands thereunder, off the coast of Georgia. The Sanctuary boundary includes all waters and submerged lands within the geodetic lines connecting the following coordinates beginning at Point 1 and continuing to each subsequent point in numerical order ending at Point 5. (Coordinates listed are unprojected (geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.):
Table 1 to § 922.90
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
31.36273
−80.92120
2
31.42106
−80.92120
3
31.42106
−80.82814
4
31.36273
−80.82814
5
31.36273
−80.92120
[88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.91
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions found at § 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
Handline
means fishing gear that is set and pulled by hand and consists of one vertical line to which may be attached leader lines with hooks.
Rod and reel
means a rod and reel unit that is not attached to a vessel, or, if attached, is readily removable, from which a line and attached hook(s) are deployed. The line is payed out from and retrieved on the reel manually or electrically.
Stowed and not available for immediate use
means not readily accessible for immediate use, e.g., by being securely covered and lashed to a deck or bulkhead, tied down, unbaited, unloaded, partially disassembled, or stowed for transit.
[80 FR 13108, Mar. 12, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.92
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Sanctuary-wide.
(a) Except as may be necessary for national defense (subject to the terms and conditions of Article 5, Section 2 of the Designation Document) or to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment, or except as may be permitted by the Director in accordance with subpart D of this part and § 922.93 and § 922.94, the following activities are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within the Sanctuary:
(1) Dredging, drilling into, or otherwise altering in any way the submerged lands of the Sanctuary (including bottom formations).
(2) Constructing any structure other than a navigation aid, or constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on the submerged lands of the Sanctuary except weighted marker buoys that are continuously tended and used during otherwise lawful fishing or diving activities and that are not attached to a vessel and not capable of holding a boat at anchor. Weights used with a marker buoy shall not have a combined weight of more than 10 pounds, shall be attached with not greater than one-fourth inch (
1/4
″) line and shall be removed from the Sanctuary within twelve (12) hours of deployment. Any weighted marker buoy that is not continuously tended may be removed by the Assistant Administrator or designee or an authorized officer, without notice.
(3) Discharging or depositing any material or other matter except:
(i) Fish or fish parts, bait, or chumming materials;
(ii) Effluent from marine sanitation devices; and
(iii) Vessel cooling water.
(4) Operating a watercraft other than in accordance with the Federal rules and regulations that would apply if there were no Sanctuary.
(5)(i) Injuring, catching, harvesting, or collecting, or attempting to injure, catch, harvest, or collect, any marine organism, or any part thereof, living or dead, within the Sanctuary by any means except by use of rod and reel, and handline gear;
(ii) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any marine organism or part thereof referenced in this paragraph found in the possession of a person within the Sanctuary has been collected from the Sanctuary.
(6) Using any fishing gear within the Sanctuary except rod and reel, and handline gear, or for law enforcement purposes.
(7) Using underwater any explosives, or devices that produce electric charges underwater.
(8) Breaking, cutting, damaging, taking, or removing any bottom formation.
(9) Moving, removing, damaging, or possessing, or attempting to move, remove, damage, or possess, any Sanctuary historical resource.
(10) Anchoring, or attempting to anchor, any vessel in the Sanctuary, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section when responding to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.
(11) Possessing or carrying any fishing gear within the Sanctuary except:
(i) Rod and reel, and handline gear;
(ii) Fishing gear other than rod and reel, handline gear, and spearfishing gear, provided that it is stowed on a vessel and not available for immediate use;
(iii) Spearfishing gear provided that it is stowed on a vessel, not available for immediate use, and the vessel is passing through the Sanctuary without interruption; and
(iv) For law enforcement purposes.
(b) All activities currently carried out by the Department of Defense within the Sanctuary are essential for the national defense and, therefore, not subject to the prohibitions in this section and §922.94. The exemption of additional activities having significant impacts shall be determined in consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense.
(c) The prohibitions in this section and in § 922.94 do not apply to any activity conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.93.
(d) The prohibitions in this section and in § 922.94 do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.
[76 FR 63832, Oct. 14, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 41881, July 18, 2014; 88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19826, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.93
Permit procedures and criteria.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.92(a)(1) through (11) and § 922.94 if the activity is specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance within the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for such permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary, 10 Ocean Science Circle, Savannah, GA 31411.
[88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.94
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Research area.
In addition to the prohibitions set out in § 922.92, which apply throughout the Sanctuary, the following activities are prohibited and thus unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted within the research area described in Appendix A to this subpart.
(a)(1) Injuring, catching, harvesting, or collecting, or attempting to injure, catch, harvest, or collect, any marine organism, or any part thereof, living or dead.
(2) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any marine organism or part thereof referenced in this paragraph found in the possession of a person within the research area has been collected from the research area.
(b) Using any fishing gear, or possessing, or carrying any fishing gear unless such gear is stowed and not available for immediate use while on board a vessel transiting through the research area without interruption or for valid law enforcement purposes.
(c) Diving.
(d) Stopping a vessel in the research area.
[76 FR 63832, Oct. 14, 2011]
Pt. 922, Subpt. I, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 922—Boundary Coordinates for the Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary Research Area
[Coordinates listed in this Appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.]
The research area boundary is defined by the coordinates provided in Table 1 and the following textual description. The research area boundary extends from Point 1, the southwest corner of the sanctuary, to Point 2 along a straight line following the western boundary of the Sanctuary. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to Point 3, which is on the eastern boundary of GRNMS. The boundary then follows the eastern boundary line of the sanctuary southward until it intersects the line of the southern boundary of GRNMS at Point 4, the southeastern corner of the sanctuary. The last straight line is defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5, along the southern boundary of the GRNMS.
Table 1—Coordinates for the Research Area
Point ID
Latitude
(north, in degrees)
Longitude
(west, in degrees)
1
N 31.362732
W 80.921200
2
N 31.384444
W 80.921200
3
N 31.384444
W 80.828145
4
N 31.362732
W 80.828145
5
N 31.362732
W 80.921200
[76 FR 63832, Oct. 14, 2011]

# Subpart J—National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa

# Source:
77 FR 43962, July 26, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.100
Scope of regulations.
The provisions of this subpart J apply only to the waters of the United States and the Territory of American Samoa that are located within the boundary of the National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa (Sanctuary). Neither the provisions of this subpart J nor any permit issued under its authority shall be construed to relieve a person from any other requirements imposed by statute or regulation of the Territory of American Samoa or of the United States. In addition, no statute or regulation of the Territory of American Samoa shall be construed to relieve a person from the restrictions, conditions, and requirements contained in this subpart J.
§ 922.101
Boundary.
The Sanctuary is comprised of six distinct units, forming a network of marine protected areas around the islands of the Territory of American Samoa. Tables containing the exact coordinates of each point described below can be found in Appendix to Subpart J—National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa Boundary Coordinates. The total areal estimate of the six units combined is 10,255 nmi
2
(13,581 sq. mi.).
(a)
Fagatele Bay Unit.
The Fagatele Bay unit is a coastal embayment formed by a collapsed volcanic crater on the island of Tutuila, Territory of American Samoa, and includes Fagatele Bay in its entirety. The landward boundary is defined by the mean high high water line of Fagatele Bay until the point at which it intersects the seaward boundary of the Sanctuary as defined by a straight line between Fagatele Point (−14.36527, −170.76932) and Steps Point (−14.37291, −170.76056) from the point at which it intersects the mean high high water line seaward.
(b)
Fagalua/Fogama'a Unit.
The landward boundary of the Fagalua/Fogama'a Unit is defined by the mean higher high water line of Fagalua/Fogama'a until the point at which it intersects the seaward boundary of the Fagalua/Fogama'a Unit as defined by a straight line between Steps Point (−14.37307, −170.75852) and Sail Rock Point (−14.36534, −170.74119) from the point at which it intersects the mean higher high water line seaward.
(c)
Aunu'u Unit.
The Aunu'u Unit is comprised of two adjacent zones.
(1)
Zone A.
The Aunu'u Unit boundary for Zone A is defined by the coordinates provided in Table 1 and the following textual description. The Zone A boundary extends from Point 1, the northwest corner of the unit, southward to Point 2 along a straight line following the western boundary of the unit, which is aligned with
Taugamalama Point on Tutuila. It then extends northeastward in a multi-part line along the deepest seaward edge of Nafanua Bank from Point 2 to Point 3 and then to Point 4, which lies on the southern boundary of Zone B. The boundary then follows a straight line westward towards Point 5 until it intersects the mean higher high water line at the southern tip of Ma'ama'a Cove. The landward boundary of Zone A is defined by the mean higher high water line from this intersection point at the southern tip of Ma'ama'a Cove to the intersection of the mean higher high water line and the straight line between Point 6 and Point 7 at Salevatia Point. From this intersection point at Salevatia Point, the boundary extends straight west to Point 7, which has the exact same coordinates as Point 1.
(2)
Zone B.
The Aunu'u Unit boundary for Zone B is defined by the coordinates provided in Table 2 and the following textual description. The Zone B boundary extends from Point 1, the northeast corner of the unit, southward along a straight line following the eastern boundary of the unit to Point 2, which is on the southern boundary of the unit. The southern boundary then follows a line westward towards Point 3 until it intersects the mean higher high water line at the southern tip of Ma'ama'a Cove Point. The landward boundary of Zone B is defined by the mean higher high water line from this intersection point at the southern tip of Ma'ama'a Cove around the volcanic crater to the intersection of the mean higher high water line and the straight line between Point 4 and Point 5. From here, the boundary extends seaward straight north to Point 5. The northern border, the last straight line, is defined by connecting Point 5 and Point 6, along the northern boundary of the unit, which is aligned with Matuli Point on Tutuila. Point 6 has the exact same coordinates at Point 1.
(d)
Swains Island Unit.
The Swains Island Unit boundary is defined by the coordinates in Table 3 and the following textual description. The seaward boundary of the Swains Island Unit approximates the three nautical mile territorial sea boundary from the mean higher high water line (shoreline) of the island. The seaward boundary begins south of the island at Point 1 and continues initially to the west in sequential order clockwise around the island to Point 33. The landward boundary of the Swains Island Unit is the mean higher high water line and begins on the northern shoreline of the island and follows the shoreline counterclockwise initially to the west until it intersects the line segment between Point 34 and 35. From this intersection the boundary continues offshore to the northwest to Point 35 and then to Point 36 and Point 37. From Point 37 the boundary continues east-northeast towards Point 38 until it intersects the shoreline. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline southeast around the southernmost part of the island and then to the northeast until it intersects the line segment between Point 39 and Point 40. From this intersection the boundary continues offshore to the southeast to Point 40 and then to the northeast to Point 41. From Point 41 the boundary continues to the northwest towards Point 42 until it intersects the shoreline. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline initially to the northeast around the island counterclockwise and then to the northwest back to where it began on the northern shoreline.
(e)
Muliāva Unit.
The Muliāva Unit boundary is defined by the coordinates provided in Table 4 and the following textual description. The landward boundary of the Muliāva Unit is the extreme low water line, which adjoins the boundary of the Rose Atoll National Wildlife Refuge. The Muliāva Unit seaward boundary extends from Point 1, the southwest corner of the unit, to Point 2 along a straight line northward following the western boundary of the unit. From Point 2, the line extends in a straight line westward to Point 3. It then extends along a straight line northward to Point 4. From Point 4, the line extends in a straight line eastward to Point 5. From Point 5, the line extends along a straight line northward to Point 6. It then extends along a straight line eastward from Point 6 to Point 7, which is on the eastern boundary of the unit. The boundary then follows a straight line southward
until it intersects the line of the southern boundary of the unit at Point 8, the southeastern corner of the unit. The last straight line is defined by connecting Point 8 and Point 9, which has the exact same coordinates as Point 1, along the southern boundary of the unit.
(f)
Ta'u Unit.
The Ta'u Unit boundary is defined by the coordinates provided in Table 5 and the following textual description. The Ta'u Unit boundary extends from Point 1, Vaita Point, along the mean higher high water line southward along the western coast to Point 2, Si'ufa'alele Point. From Point 2, the boundary extends offshore 0.25 miles to Point 3 to become conterminous with the offshore boundary of the National Park of American Samoa. From Point 3 the boundary continues to follow the coastline 0.25 miles offshore until it reaches Point 4, which is directly south of Si'u Point. From Point 4, the boundary extends due south to Point 5. From Point 5, the boundary extends due west to Point 6, forming the southern border of the unit. From Point 6, the boundary extends due north until it reaches Point 7, directly west and one mile offshore from Point 8, which is Point 1, also known as Vaita Point.
[77 FR 43962, July 26, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 79683, Dec. 23, 2015; 88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.102
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions found at § 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
Live rock
means any Coral, basalt rock, or other natural structure with any living organisms growing in or on the Coral, basalt rock, or structure.
Stowed and not available for immediate use
means not readily accessible for immediate use, e.g., by being securely covered and lashed to a deck or bulkhead, tied down, unbaited, unloaded, or partially disassembled (such as spear shafts being kept separate from spear guns).
[77 FR 43962, July 26, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.103
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Sanctuary-wide.
(a) The following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within the Sanctuary:
(1) Introducing or releasing introduced species from within or into the sanctuary.
(2) Anchoring a vessel.
(3) Deserting a vessel aground, adrift, or at anchor.
(4) Leaving harmful matter on an abandoned or deserted vessel or structure.
(5) Operating a vessel at a speed exceeding three knots when closer than 200 feet (60.96 meters) of another vessel displaying a dive flag.
(6) Operating a vessel in a manner which causes the vessel to strike or otherwise cause damage to Sanctuary resources.
(7) Diving, snorkeling, or conducting diving or snorkeling operations from a vessel not in compliance with applicable U.S. Coast Guard navigation rules governing the display of lights and signals, and not flying in a conspicuous manner the international code flag alpha “A” or the standard red-and-white U.S. “diver down” flag.
(8) Discharging, or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary, any material or other matter, except clean vessel deck wash down, clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, clean bilge water, anchor wash, or vessel engine or generator exhaust.
(9) Discharging or depositing from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except those listed in paragraph (a)(8) of this section and § 922.105(c).
(10) Sand mining, dredging, filling, dynamiting, or otherwise disturbing or altering the seabed.
(11) Removing, damaging, or tampering with any historical or cultural resource.
(12) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or seabird within or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.,
or any
regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.
(13) Using or discharging explosives or weapons of any description. Distress signaling devices, necessary and proper for safe vessel operation, and knives generally used by fishermen and swimmers shall not be considered weapons for purposes of this section.
(14) Marking, defacing, or damaging in any way, or displacing or removing or tampering with any signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent, or with any monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers related to the Sanctuary.
(15) Abandoning a structure, material, or other matter on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (15) of this section, § 922.104, and § 922.105 do not apply to any activity necessary for national defense.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (15) of this section, § 922.104, and § 922.105 do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (15) of this section, § 922.104, and § 922.105 do not apply to any activity necessary for valid law enforcement purposes in the Sanctuary.
(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (15) of this section and §§ 922.104 and 922.105 do not apply to any activity conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.107.
[77 FR 43962, July 26, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.104
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Sanctuary-wide except in the Muliāva Unit.
(a) The following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within any unit of the Sanctuary except the Muliāva Unit:
(1) Gathering, taking, breaking, cutting, damaging, destroying, or possessing any giant clam [
Tridacna spp.
], live coral, bottom formation including live rock and crustose coralline algae.
(2) Possessing or using poisons, electrical charges, explosives, or similar environmentally destructive methods of fishing or harvesting.
(3) Possessing or using spearguns, including such devices known as Hawaiian slings, pole spears, arbalettes, pneumatic and spring-loaded spearguns, bows and arrows, bang sticks, or any similar taking device while utilizing SCUBA equipment.
(4) Possessing or using a seine, trammel, drift gill net, or any type of fixed net.
(5) Disturbing the benthic community by bottom trawling.
(b) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any items listed in paragraph (a) of this section found in the possession of a person within the Sanctuary have been used, collected, or removed within or from the Sanctuary.
§ 922.105
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities—Unit-specific.
In addition to the prohibitions set forth in § 922.103 and § 922.104, the following regulations apply to activities conducted within specified Sanctuary units described in the appendix to this subpart.
(a) The following activities are prohibited in the Fagatele Bay Unit:
(1) Harvesting, catching, removing, taking, injuring, destroying, collecting, moving, possessing or causing the loss of any Sanctuary resource, including but not limited to fishing, or attempting any of these activities.
(2) Possessing fishing gear unless such gear is stowed and not available for immediate use.
(b) The following activities are prohibited in the Aunu'u Unit:
(1) In Zone A: Fishing from a vessel without providing notification to the Sanctuary Superintendent or his/her designee in the village of Aunu'u prior to each fishing trip.
(2) In Zone B:
(i) Fishing for bottom-dwelling species or otherwise harvesting, catching, removing, taking, injuring, destroying, collecting, moving, or causing the loss
of any bottom-dwelling species, or attempting any of these activities. Surface fishing for pelagic species, including trolling, is allowed.
(ii) Disturbing the benthic community.
(iii) Possessing any Sanctuary resource, except legally harvested fish on board a vessel.
(c) In the Muliāva Unit:
(1) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (7) and (a)(9) through (15) of § 922.103 do not apply to scientific exploration or research activities conducted by or for the Department of Commerce or the Department of the Interior.
(2) Notwithstanding the prohibition in § 922.103(a)(8), the following vessels may discharge treated waste from a U.S. Coast Guard approved Type I, II, or III Marine Sanitation device 12 nautical miles seaward of the Rose Atoll National Wildlife Refuge:
(i) Vessels engaged in scientific exploration or research activities conducted by or for the Department of Commerce or the Department of the Interior; or
(ii) All other vessels engaged in scientific exploration or research activities, if authorized under a permit issued in consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and in accordance with § 922.48 and § 922.107.
§ 922.106
Management and enforcement.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has primary responsibility for the management of the Sanctuary pursuant to the Act. The American Samoa Department of Commerce (ASDOC) will assist NOAA in the administration of the Sanctuary, and act as the lead territorial agency, in conformance with the terms of designation, these regulations, and the terms and provisions of any grant or cooperative agreement.
§ 922.107
Permit procedures.
(a) Any person in possession of a valid permit issued by the Director, in consultation with the ASDOC, in accordance with this section and subpart D of the part may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by §§ 922.103, 922.104, and 922.105 in the Sanctuary.
(b) Permit applications shall be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Sanctuary Superintendent, American Samoa National Marine Sanctuary, P.O. Box 4318, Pago Pago, AS 96799.
[88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023]
Pt. 922, Subpt. J, App.

# Appendix to Subpart J of Part 922—American Samoa National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
[Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.]

# (a) Fagatele Bay
No coordinates are needed in addition to those described in § 922.101(a).

# (b) Fagalua/Fogama'a
No coordinates are needed in addition to those described in § 922.101(b).

# (c) Aunu'u (Zones A, B)
The Aunu'u Unit is comprised of two adjacent zones, described in § 922.101(c), for which the point coordinates are provided in following tables 1 and 2.
Table 1—Coordinates for the Aunu'u Unit, Zone A
Point ID
Latitude
(south)
Longitude
(west)
1
−14.286
−170.577
2
−14.304
−170.577
3
−14.302
−170.566
4
−14.286
−170.533
5
−14.286
−170.546
6
−14.286
−170.562
7
−14.286
−170.577
Table 2—Coordinates for the Aunu'u Unit, Zone B
Point ID
Latitude
(south)
Longitude
(west)
1
−14.270
−170.496
2
−14.286
−170.496
3
−14.286
−170.546
4
−14.280
−170.550
5
−14.270
−170.550
6
−14.270
−170.496

# (d) Swains Island
The Swains Island Unit boundary is defined by the coordinates provided in Table 3 and the textual description in § 922.101(d).
Table 3—Coordinates for the Swains Island Unit
Point ID
Latitude
(south)
Longitude
(west)
1
−11.11457
−171.06870
2
−11.11565
−171.07980
3
−11.11422
−171.09248
4
−11.11005
−171.10445
5
−11.10388
−171.11445
6
−11.09533
−171.12392
7
−11.08375
−171.13272
8
−11.07268
−171.13775
9
−11.06112
−171.14042
10
−11.04880
−171.14067
11
−11.03618
−171.13800
12
−11.02673
−171.13367
13
−11.01853
−171.12773
14
−11.01010
−171.11828
15
−11.00402
−171.10710
16
−11.00083
−171.09728
17
−10.99817
−171.08305
18
−10.99783
−171.06825
19
−10.99983
−171.05732
20
−11.00373
−171.04790
21
−11.00955
−171.03862
22
−11.01752
−171.02985
23
−11.02703
−171.02290
24
−11.03763
−171.01805
25
−11.04812
−171.01558
26
−11.05860
−171.01527
27
−11.06860
−171.01695
28
−11.07957
−171.02133
29
−11.08850
−171.02727
30
−11.09637
−171.03502
31
−11.10637
−171.04840
32
−11.11122
−171.05753
33
−11.11457
−171.06870
34
−11.05188
−171.08921
35
−11.04856
−171.09269
36
−11.05487
−171.09445
37
−11.06024
−171.09283
38
−11.05848
−171.08824
39
−11.06369
−171.07618
40
−11.06741
−171.07364
41
−11.06217
−171.06622
42
−11.05836
−171.06879

# (e) Muliāva
The Muliāva Unit boundary is defined by the coordinates provided in Table 4 and the textual description in § 922.101(e).
Table 4—Coordinates for the Muliāva Unit
Point ID
Latitude
(south)
Longitude
(west)
1
−15.387
−169.012
2
−14.271
−169.012
3
−14.271
−169.121
4
−14.150
−169.121
5
−14.150
−169.012
6
−13.698
−169.012
7
−13.698
−167.283
8
−15.387
−167.283
9
−15.387
−169.012
(f) Ta'u Unit
The Ta'u Unit boundary is defined by the coordinates provided in Table 5 and the textual description in § 922.101(f).
Table 5—Coordinates for the Ta'u Unit
Point ID
Latitude
(south)
Longitude
(west)
1
−14.24889
−169.503056
2
−14.273056
−169.488056
3
−14.277222
−169.488056
4
−14.261111
−169.429167
5
−14.293889
−169.429167
6
−14.293889
−169.519722
7
−14.24889
−169.519722
8
−14.24889
−169.503056
[80 FR 79683, Dec. 23, 2015]

# Subpart K—Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
80 FR 13115, Mar. 12, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.110
Boundary.
The Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) boundary encompasses a total area of approximately 971 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (1,286 sq. mi.) of offshore ocean waters, and submerged lands thereunder, surrounding the submarine plateau known as Cordell Bank along the northern coast of California, approximately 45 nautical miles west-northwest of San Francisco, California. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart. The northern boundary of the Sanctuary is a rhumb line that begins approximately 6 nautical miles (7 miles) west of Bodega Head in Sonoma County, California at Point 1 and extends west approximately 38 nautical miles (44 miles) to Point 2. This line is part of a shared boundary between the Sanctuary and Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary (GFNMS). The western boundary of the Sanctuary extends south from Point 2 approximately 34 nautical miles (39 miles) to Point 3. From Point 3 the Sanctuary boundary continues east 15 nautical miles (17 miles) to Point 4 where it intersects the GFNMS boundary again. The line from Point 3 to Point 4 forms the southernmost boundary of the Sanctuary. The eastern boundary of the Sanctuary is a series of straight lines connecting Points 4 through 20 in numerical sequence. The Sanctuary is coterminous with GFNMS along both its
(the Sanctuary's) eastern and northern boundaries.
[80 FR 13115, Mar. 12, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 34048, June 15, 2015; 88 FR 966, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.111
[Reserved]
§ 922.112
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) The following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within the Sanctuary:
(1) Exploring for, developing, or producing oil, gas, or minerals.
(2)(i) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary, other than from a cruise ship, any material or other matter except:
(A) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials, or bait used in or resulting from lawful fishing activities within the Sanctuary, provided that such discharge or deposit is during the conduct of lawful fishing activity within the Sanctuary;
(B) For a vessel less than 300 gross registered tons (GRT), or a vessel 300 GRT or greater without sufficient holding tank capacity to hold sewage while within the Sanctuary, clean effluent generated incidental to vessel use and generated by an operable Type I or II marine sanitation device (U.S. Coast Guard classification) approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1322. Vessel operators must lock all marine sanitation devices in a manner that prevents discharge or deposit of untreated sewage;
(C) Clean vessel deck wash down, clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, clean bilge water, or anchor wash;
(D) For a vessel less than 300 GRT or a vessel 300 GRT or greater without sufficient holding capacity to hold graywater while within the Sanctuary, clean graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA;
(E) Vessel engine or generator exhaust; or
(F) For a United States Coast Guard vessel without sufficient holding tank capacity and without a Type I or II marine sanitation device, and operating within the designated area [2015 expansion area] defined in appendix C of this subpart, sewage and non-clean graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA generated incidental to vessel use, and ammunition, pyrotechnics or other materials directly related to search and rescue and live ammunition training activities conducted by United States Coast Guard vessels and aircraft in the designated areas defined in appendix C of this subpart.
(ii) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary any material or other matter from a cruise ship except clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, vessel engine or generator exhaust, clean bilge water, or anchor wash.
(iii) Discharging or depositing, from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except as listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(3) On or within the line representing the 50-fathom isobath surrounding Cordell Bank, removing, taking, or injuring or attempting to remove, take, or injure benthic invertebrates or algae located on Cordell Bank. This prohibition does not apply to use of bottom contact gear used during fishing activities, which is prohibited pursuant to 50 CFR part 660 (Fisheries off West Coast States). The coordinates for the line representing the 50-fathom isobath are listed in appendix B to this subpart, and the 50-fathom isobath is approximated by connecting these coordinates with straight line arcs in numerical sequence from Point 1 to Point 15. There is a rebuttable presumption that any such resource found in the possession of a person within the Sanctuary was taken or removed by that person.
(4)(i) On or within the line representing the 50-fathom isobath surrounding Cordell Bank, drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the submerged lands; or constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material or other matter on or in the submerged lands. This prohibition does not apply
to use of bottom contact gear used during fishing activities, which is prohibited pursuant to 50 CFR part 660 (Fisheries off West Coast States). The coordinates for the line representing the 50-fathom isobath are listed in appendix B to this subpart, and the 50-fathom isobath is approximated by connecting these coordinates with straight line arcs in numerical sequence from Point 1 to Point 15.
(ii) In the Sanctuary beyond the line representing the 50-fathom isobath surrounding Cordell Bank, drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the submerged lands; or constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material or matter on the submerged lands except as incidental and necessary for anchoring any vessel or lawful use of any fishing gear during normal fishing activities. The coordinates for the line representing the 50-fathom isobath are listed in Appendix B to this subpart, and the 50-fathom isobath is approximated by connecting these coordinates with straight line arcs in numerical sequence from Point 1 to Point 15.
(5) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird within or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.,
or any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.
(6) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken, moved or removed from), any marine mammal, sea turtle or bird taken, except as authorized by the MMPA, ESA, MBTA, by any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA, or as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.
(7) Possessing, moving, removing, or injuring, or attempting to possess, move, remove or injure, a Sanctuary historical resource.
(8) Introducing or otherwise releasing from within or into the Sanctuary an introduced species, except striped bass (
Morone saxatilis
) released during catch and release fishing activity.
(9) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying, or preventing an investigation, search, seizure, or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to activities necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property or the environment, or except as may be permitted by the Director in accordance with subpart D of this part and § 922.113.
(c) All activities being carried out by the Department of Defense (DOD) within the Sanctuary on the effective date of designation or expansion of the Sanctuary that are necessary for national defense are exempt from the prohibitions contained in the regulations in this subpart. Additional DOD activities initiated after the effective date of designation or expansion that are necessary for national defense will be exempted by the Director after consultation between the Department of Commerce and DOD. DOD activities not necessary for national defense, such as routine exercises and vessel operations, are subject to all prohibitions contained in the regulations in this subpart.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (7) of this section do not apply to any activity executed in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.113, or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.
(e) Where necessary to prevent immediate, serious, and irreversible damage to a Sanctuary resource, any activity may be regulated within the limits of the Act on an emergency basis for no more than 120 days.
[80 FR 13115, Mar. 12, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 55967, Nov. 9, 2018; 88 FR 967, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19827, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.113
Permit procedures and issuance criteria.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.112(a)(2) through (7) if the activity is specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued
under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary, P.O. Box 159, Olema, CA 94950.
[88 FR 19827, Apr. 4, 2023]
Pt. 922, Subpt. K, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart K of Part 922—Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic Coordinate System) and based on the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83).
Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.29989
−123.20005
2
38.29989
−123.99988
3
37.76687
−123.75143
4
37.76687
−123.42694
5
37.83480
−123.42579
6
37.90464
−123.38958
7
37.95880
−123.32312
8
37.98947
−123.23615
9
37.99227
−123.14137
10
38.05202
−123.12827
11
38.06505
−123.11711
12
38.07898
−123.10924
13
38.09069
−123.10387
14
38.10215
−123.09804
15
38.12829
−123.08742
16
38.14072
−123.08237
17
38.16576
−123.09207
18
38.21001
−123.11913
19
38.26390
−123.18138
20
38.29989
−123.20005
Pt. 922, Subpt. K, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart K of Part 922—Line Representing the 50-Fathom Isobath Surrounding Cordell Bank
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic Coordinate System) and based on the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83).
Cordell Bank Fifty Fathom Line Coordinates
Point
ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.96034
−123.40371
2
37.96172
−123.42081
3
37.9911
−123.44379
4
38.00406
−123.46443
5
38.01637
−123.46076
6
38.04684
−123.47920
7
38.07106
−123.48754
8
38.07588
−123.47195
9
38.06451
−123.46146
10
38.07123
−123.44467
11
38.04446
−123.40286
12
38.01442
−123.38588
13
37.98859
−123.37533
14
37.97071
−123.38605
15
37.96034
−123.40371
Pt. 922, Subpt. K, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart K of Part 922—Designated Area for Certain United States Coast Guard Discharges
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic Coordinate System) and based on the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83).
The portion of the Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary area [2015 expansion area] where the exception for discharges from United States Coast Guard activities applies is defined as follows. Beginning with Point 1, identified in the coordinate table in this appendix, the boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 in a straight line arc and continues in numerical order through each subsequent point to Point 38. From Point 38 the boundary extends west along the northern boundary of Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary to Point 39 where it ends.
Point No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.29989
−123.99988
2
37.76687
−123.75143
3
37.76716
−123.42758
4
37.77033
−123.43466
5
37.78109
−123.44694
6
37.78383
−123.45466
7
37.79487
−123.46721
8
37.80094
−123.47313
9
37.81026
−123.46897
10
37.81365
−123.47906
11
37.82296
−123.49280
12
37.84988
−123.51749
13
37.86189
−123.52197
14
37.87637
−123.52192
15
37.88541
−123.52967
16
37.90725
−123.53937
17
37.92288
−123.54360
18
37.93858
−123.54701
19
37.94901
−123.54777
20
37.95528
−123.56199
21
37.96683
−123.57859
22
37.97761
−123.58746
23
37.98678
−123.59988
24
37.99847
−123.61331
25
38.01366
−123.62494
26
38.01987
−123.62450
27
38.02286
−123.61531
28
38.02419
−123.59864
29
38.03409
−123.59904
30
38.04614
−123.60611
31
38.05308
−123.60549
32
38.06188
−123.61546
33
38.07451
−123.62162
34
38.08289
−123.62065
35
38.11256
−123.63344
36
38.13219
−123.64265
37
38.26390
−123.18138
38
38.29989
−123.20005
39
38.29989
−123.99988
[83 FR 55967, Nov. 9, 2018]

# Subpart L—Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary
§ 922.120
Boundary.
The Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary (sanctuary) boundary encompasses a total area of approximately 121 square nautical miles (160.35 square miles) of offshore ocean waters, and submerged lands thereunder, along the continental shelf and shelf edge in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico. The entire sanctuary boundary is comprised of 19 unique polygons. The precise boundary coordinates for each polygon are listed in appendix A to this subpart.
[86 FR 4953, Jan. 19, 2021]
§ 922.121
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions found at § 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
As used in this subpart:
Disturb or disturbing a ray or whale shark
means to, or attempt to touch, handle, ride, pursue, chase away, hunt, restrain, detain (no matter how temporarily), capture, collect, or conduct any other activity that disrupts or has the potential to disrupt any ray or whale shark in the Sanctuary by any means. Notwithstanding the above, the mere presence of human beings (e.g., swimmers, divers, boaters, kayakers) is exempted from this definition.
Harmful matter
means any substance, or combination of substances, that because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may pose a present or potential threat to Sanctuary resources or qualities, including but not limited to: Fishing nets, fishing line, hooks, fuel, oil, and those contaminants (regardless of quantity) listed at 40 CFR 302.4 pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9601(14) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended.
No-activity zone
(applicable only to oil and gas industry activities) means the geographic areas delineated by the Department of the Interior in Topographic Features Stipulations for Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) lease sales as defined by a bathymetric contour (isobath) ranging from 55-85m in depth, with the exception of Stetson Bank (52m) and East and West Flower Garden Banks (100m). The Notice to Lessees (NTL) No. 2009-G39 provides and consolidates guidance for the avoidance and protection of biologically sensitive features and areas (
i.e.
topographic features, pinnacles, live bottoms (low relief features)) and other potentially sensitive biological features (PSBFs) when conducting operations in water depths shallower than 980 feet (300 meters) in the Gulf of Mexico. NTL 2009-G39 remains in effect pursuant to NTL No. 2015-N02. The no-activity zones are based on depth contours as noted for the following Banks: Stetson Bank (52 meters), MacNeil Bank (82 meters), Rankin Banks (including 28 Fathom Bank) (85 meters), Bright Bank (85 meters), Geyer Bank (85 meters), Elvers Bank (85 meters), McGrail Bank (85 meters), Bouma Bank (85 meters), Rezak Bank (85 meters), Sidner Bank (85 meters), Sonnier Bank (55 meters), Alderdice Bank (80 meters), and Parker Bank (85 meters). For East and West Flower Garden Banks, the no-activity zones are based on the “
1/4
1/4
1/4
” aliquot system formerly used by the Department of the Interior, a method that delineates a specific portion of a block rather than the actual underlying isobath. The precise aliquot part description of these areas around East and West Flower Garden Banks are provided in appendix A of this subpart.
[77 FR 25068, Apr. 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 4953, Jan. 19, 2021; 88 FR 967, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.122
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1) Exploring for, developing, or producing oil, gas, or minerals except outside of all no-activity zones and provided all drilling cuttings and drilling fluids are shunted to the seabed through a downpipe that terminates an appropriate distance, but no more than ten meters, from the seabed.
(2)(i) Anchoring any vessel within the Sanctuary.
(ii) Mooring any vessel within the Sanctuary, except that vessels 100 feet (30.48 meters) or less in registered length may moor to a Sanctuary mooring buoy.
(iii) Mooring a vessel in the Sanctuary without clearly displaying the blue and white International Code flag “A” (“alpha” dive flag) or the red and white “sports diver” flag whenever a SCUBA diver from that vessel is in the water and removing the “alpha” dive flag or “sports diver” flag after all SCUBA divers exit the water and return back on board the vessel, consistent with U.S. Coast Guard guidelines relating to sports diving as contained within “Special Notice to Mariners” (00-208) for the Gulf of Mexico.
(3)(i) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary any material or other matter except:
(A) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials, or bait used in or resulting from fishing with conventional hook and line gear in the Sanctuary, provided that such discharge or deposit occurs during the conduct of such fishing within the Sanctuary;
(B) Clean effluent generated incidental to vessel use by an operable Type I or Type II marine sanitation device (U.S. Coast Guard classification) approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1322. Vessel operators must lock marine sanitation devices in a manner that prevents discharge or deposit of untreated sewage;
(C) Clean vessel deck wash down, clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, clean bilge water, or anchor wash;
(D) Engine exhaust;
(E) In areas of the Sanctuary outside the no-activity zones, drilling cuttings and drilling fluids necessarily discharged incidental to the exploration for, development of, or production of oil or gas in those areas and in accordance with the shunting requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section unless such discharge injures a Sanctuary resource or quality.
(ii) Discharging or depositing, from beyond the boundaries of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter, except those listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality.
(4) Drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the seabed of the Sanctuary (except as allowed under paragraph (c) of this section); or constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on the seabed of the Sanctuary.
(5) Injuring or removing, or attempting to injure or remove, any coral or other bottom formation, coralline algae or other plant, marine invertebrate, brine-seep biota, or carbonate rock within the Sanctuary.
(6) Taking any marine mammal or turtle within the Sanctuary, except as permitted by regulations, as amended, promulgated under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
and the Endangered Species Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
(7) Killing, injuring, attracting, touching, or disturbing a ray or whale shark in the Sanctuary. Notwithstanding the above, the incidental and unintentional injury to a ray or whale shark as a result of fishing with conventional hook and line gear is exempted from this prohibition.
(8) Injuring, catching, harvesting, collecting or feeding, or attempting to injure, catch, harvest, collect or feed, any fish within the Sanctuary by use of longlines, traps, nets, bottom trawls or any other gear, device, equipment or means except by use of conventional hook and line gear.
(9) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where collected, caught, harvested or removed), except for valid law enforcement purposes, any carbonate rock, coral or other bottom formation, coralline algae or other plant, marine invertebrate, brine-seep biota,
or fish (except for fish caught by use of conventional hook and line gear).
(10) Possessing or using within the Sanctuary, except possessing while passing without interruption through it or for valid law enforcement purposes, any fishing gear, device, equipment or means except conventional hook and line gear.
(11) Possessing, except for valid law enforcement purposes, or using explosives or releasing electrical charges within the Sanctuary.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (a)(4), and (a)(11) of this section do not apply to necessary activities conducted in areas of the Sanctuary outside the no-activity zones and incidental to exploration for, development of, or production of oil or gas in those areas.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) of this section do not apply to activities necessary to respond to emergencies threatening life, property, or the environment.
(e)(1) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) of this section do not apply to activities being carried out by the Department of Defense as of March 22, 2021, the effective date of the revised terms of sanctuary designation. Such activities shall be carried out in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources or qualities. The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) of this section do not apply to any new activities carried out by the Department of Defense that do not have the potential for any significant adverse impact on Sanctuary resources or qualities. Such activities shall be carried out in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources or qualities. New activities with the potential for significant adverse impact on Sanctuary resources or qualities may be exempted from the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) of this section by the Director after consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense. If it is determined that an activity may be carried out, such activity shall be carried out in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources or qualities.
(2) In the event of threatened or actual destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an untoward incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings, caused by a component of the Department of Defense, the cognizant component shall promptly coordinate with the Director for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to respond to and mitigate the harm and, if possible, restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality.
(f) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (10) of this section do not apply to any activity specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit or ONMS authorization issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.123 or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.
(g) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) of this section do not apply to any activity authorized by any lease, permit, license, approval or other authorization issued after January 18, 1994, provided that the applicant complies with § 922.36, the Director notifies the applicant and authorizing agency that he or she does not object to issuance of the authorization, and the applicant complies with any terms and conditions the Director deems necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, in no event may the Director issue a National Marine Sanctuary permit under subpart D of this part and § 922.123 authorizing, or otherwise approve, the exploration for, development of, or production of oil, gas, or minerals in a no-activity zone. Any leases, permits, approvals, or other authorizations authorizing the exploration for, development of, or production of oil, gas, or minerals in a no-activity zone and issued after January 18, 1994 shall be invalid.
[77 FR 25069, Apr. 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 4954, Jan. 19, 2021; 86 FR 15404, Mar. 23, 2021; 88 FR 967, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 9393, Feb. 14, 2023; 88 FR 19827, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.123
Permit procedures.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.122(a)(2) through (11) if such activity is specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for such permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary, 4700 Avenue U, Building 216, Galveston, TX 77551.
[88 FR 967, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19827, Apr. 4, 2023]
Pt. 922, Subpt. L, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart L of Part 922—Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates

# Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic Coordinate System) and based on the North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83).
Point ID No.
Polygon ID No.
Bank(s)
Latitude
Longitude
1
1
Stetson Bank
28.15673
−94.29673
2
1
Stetson Bank
28.15661
−94.30312
3
1
Stetson Bank
28.15862
−94.30888
4
1
Stetson Bank
28.16950
−94.30839
5
1
Stetson Bank
28.17386
−94.30257
6
1
Stetson Bank
28.17583
−94.29445
7
1
Stetson Bank
28.17543
−94.29327
8
1
Stetson Bank
28.17284
−94.28952
9
1
Stetson Bank
28.16924
−94.28677
10
1
Stetson Bank
28.16428
−94.28681
11
1
Stetson Bank
28.16274
−94.28756
12
1
Stetson Bank
28.15796
−94.29047
13
1
Stetson Bank
28.15673
−94.29673
1
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.84363
−93.78549
2
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.81750
−93.81056
3
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.81752
−93.84752
4
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.83069
−93.86271
5
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.81735
−93.87490
6
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.83220
−93.89185
7
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.85854
−93.89369
8
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.87925
−93.87853
9
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.92626
−93.82011
10
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.92620
−93.81759
11
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.91801
−93.80801
12
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.90969
−93.77939
13
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.88644
−93.77939
14
2
West Flower Garden Bank
27.84363
−93.78549
1
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.82317
−93.62789
2
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.80927
−93.63578
3
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.80568
−93.65541
4
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.79429
−93.66555
5
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.78357
−93.68846
6
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.79640
−93.70534
7
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.81855
−93.75198
8
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.82742
−93.74743
9
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.81868
−93.68868
10
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.83143
−93.68941
11
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.84699
−93.70079
12
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.87165
−93.73947
13
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.88602
−93.73294
14
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.87252
−93.64648
15
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.85861
−93.63908
16
3
Horseshoe Bank
27.82317
−93.62789
1
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.89455
−93.57040
2
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.87999
−93.61309
3
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.88003
−93.62961
4
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.89330
−93.64172
5
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.92101
−93.64747
6
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.95899
−93.64490
7
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.97485
−93.63086
8
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.98177
−93.60996
9
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.98554
−93.58188
10
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.95206
−93.57810
11
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.92151
−93.56880
12
4
East Flower Garden Bank
27.89455
−93.57040
1
5
MacNeil Bank
28.00226
−93.51550
2
5
MacNeil Bank
27.99707
−93.52669
3
5
MacNeil Bank
28.00136
−93.52423
4
5
MacNeil Bank
28.00518
−93.52425
5
5
MacNeil Bank
28.01694
−93.52233
6
5
MacNeil Bank
28.01883
−93.51264
7
5
MacNeil Bank
28.03670
−93.50300
8
5
MacNeil Bank
28.03724
−93.49844
9
5
MacNeil Bank
28.03113
−93.49199
10
5
MacNeil Bank
28.01300
−93.49624
11
5
MacNeil Bank
28.00331
−93.50725
12
5
MacNeil Bank
28.00226
−93.51550
1
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.92554
−93.40593
2
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.92039
−93.41021
3
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.92035
−93.42474
4
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.91387
−93.43165
5
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.90829
−93.42234
6
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.90641
−93.42535
7
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.90489
−93.44219
8
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.89549
−93.44396
9
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.88892
−93.43403
10
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.88072
−93.42805
11
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.87676
−93.42787
12
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.88449
−93.44458
13
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.88803
−93.45159
14
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.88794
−93.45905
15
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.89234
−93.46410
16
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.89971
−93.45571
17
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.90910
−93.45343
18
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.92847
−93.45335
19
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.93407
−93.44743
20
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.93599
−93.44215
21
6
Rankin Bank
28—Fathom Bank
27.92554
−93.40593
1
7
Bright Bank
27.87310
−93.27056
2
7
Bright Bank
27.86549
−93.29462
3
7
Bright Bank
27.87300
−93.31055
4
7
Bright Bank
27.89058
−93.32193
5
7
Bright Bank
27.89839
−93.31987
6
7
Bright Bank
27.90336
−93.30953
7
7
Bright Bank
27.91010
−93.30562
8
7
Bright Bank
27.91634
−93.29292
9
7
Bright Bank
27.91263
−93.28816
10
7
Bright Bank
27.90354
−93.28386
11
7
Bright Bank
27.90253
−93.27238
12
7
Bright Bank
27.89927
−93.26729
13
7
Bright Bank
27.87310
−93.27056
1
8
Geyer Bank
27.78848
−93.07794
2
8
Geyer Bank
27.79458
−93.08448
3
8
Geyer Bank
27.83313
−93.07913
4
8
Geyer Bank
27.85306
−93.08279
5
8
Geyer Bank
27.86328
−93.07885
6
8
Geyer Bank
27.86908
−93.06974
7
8
Geyer Bank
27.86556
−93.05944
8
8
Geyer Bank
27.85211
−93.05391
9
8
Geyer Bank
27.83713
−93.05725
10
8
Geyer Bank
27.82540
−93.04312
11
8
Geyer Bank
27.82490
−93.04276
12
8
Geyer Bank
27.80846
−93.03412
13
8
Geyer Bank
27.78997
−93.04096
14
8
Geyer Bank
27.78602
−93.05384
15
8
Geyer Bank
27.78848
−93.07794
1
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.82285
−92.88605
2
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.82087
−92.88600
3
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.82009
−92.88670
4
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.81869
−92.89235
5
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.81690
−92.89404
6
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.81615
−92.89653
7
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.80645
−92.90884
8
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.81221
−92.92082
9
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.81599
−92.93908
10
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.81934
−92.93940
11
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.82250
−92.92465
12
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.82809
−92.91359
13
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.83973
−92.89876
14
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.83972
−92.88038
15
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.83003
−92.86983
16
9A
Elvers Bank—A
27.82285
−92.88605
1
9B
Elvers Bank—B
27.85645
−92.92310
2
9B
Elvers Bank—B
27.85662
−92.91922
3
9B
Elvers Bank—B
27.85334
−92.91631
4
9B
Elvers Bank—B
27.85076
−92.91727
5
9B
Elvers Bank—B
27.84903
−92.92097
6
9B
Elvers Bank—B
27.85145
−92.92524
7
9B
Elvers Bank—B
27.85645
−92.92310
1
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.97684
−92.58489
2
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.97749
−92.57716
3
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.97475
−92.56753
4
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.97304
−92.56191
5
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.95173
−92.53902
6
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.94849
−92.54254
7
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.96632
−92.56116
8
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.96792
−92.58152
9
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.95989
−92.58187
10
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.95409
−92.57057
11
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.94951
−92.57135
12
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.94920
−92.57994
13
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.95846
−92.60274
14
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.97286
−92.61901
15
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.98096
−92.60158
16
10A
McGrail Bank—A
27.97684
−92.58489
1
10B
McGrail Bank—B
27.94116
−92.54750
2
10B
McGrail Bank—B
27.94180
−92.54543
3
10B
McGrail Bank—B
27.94010
−92.54202
4
10B
McGrail Bank—B
27.93616
−92.54151
5
10B
McGrail Bank—B
27.93481
−92.54398
6
10B
McGrail Bank—B
27.93529
−92.54803
7
10B
McGrail Bank—B
27.93859
−92.54901
8
10B
McGrail Bank—B
27.94116
−92.54750
1
11
Bouma Bank
28.07909
−92.47305
2
11
Bouma Bank
28.07370
−92.44900
3
11
Bouma Bank
28.07370
−92.44891
4
11
Bouma Bank
28.06544
−92.43518
5
11
Bouma Bank
28.05162
−92.43380
6
11
Bouma Bank
28.03846
−92.44065
7
11
Bouma Bank
28.03463
−92.45289
8
11
Bouma Bank
28.03114
−92.45537
9
11
Bouma Bank
28.02915
−92.46338
10
11
Bouma Bank
28.03154
−92.47259
11
11
Bouma Bank
28.04166
−92.47229
12
11
Bouma Bank
28.04525
−92.46717
13
11
Bouma Bank
28.04751
−92.47310
14
11
Bouma Bank
28.04676
−92.48308
15
11
Bouma Bank
28.04866
−92.48462
16
11
Bouma Bank
28.05687
−92.48145
17
11
Bouma Bank
28.06388
−92.49262
18
11
Bouma Bank
28.07018
−92.49141
19
11
Bouma Bank
28.06974
−92.48613
20
11
Bouma Bank
28.06594
−92.48098
21
11
Bouma Bank
28.07109
−92.47708
22
11
Bouma Bank
28.07683
−92.48071
23
11
Bouma Bank
28.07909
−92.47305
1
12
Sonnier Bank
28.32652
−92.45356
2
12
Sonnier Bank
28.32495
−92.45647
3
12
Sonnier Bank
28.32501
−92.45965
4
12
Sonnier Bank
28.32796
−92.46626
5
12
Sonnier Bank
28.33523
−92.47536
6
12
Sonnier Bank
28.34453
−92.47511
7
12
Sonnier Bank
28.34840
−92.47439
8
12
Sonnier Bank
28.35256
−92.47181
9
12
Sonnier Bank
28.35416
−92.46784
10
12
Sonnier Bank
28.35456
−92.46135
11
12
Sonnier Bank
28.35351
−92.45729
12
12
Sonnier Bank
28.35174
−92.45107
13
12
Sonnier Bank
28.34852
−92.44564
14
12
Sonnier Bank
28.34303
−92.44045
15
12
Sonnier Bank
28.34048
−92.44024
16
12
Sonnier Bank
28.33584
−92.44669
17
12
Sonnier Bank
28.33068
−92.44985
18
12
Sonnier Bank
28.32652
−92.45356
1
13
Rezak Bank
27.95420
−92.36641
2
13
Rezak Bank
27.95847
−92.37739
3
13
Rezak Bank
27.95629
−92.38599
4
13
Rezak Bank
27.97297
−92.39248
5
13
Rezak Bank
27.97892
−92.39845
6
13
Rezak Bank
27.98869
−92.39964
7
13
Rezak Bank
27.99372
−92.38244
8
13
Rezak Bank
27.98603
−92.36697
9
13
Rezak Bank
27.98022
−92.36429
10
13
Rezak Bank
27.97442
−92.36996
11
13
Rezak Bank
27.96006
−92.36854
12
13
Rezak Bank
27.95420
−92.36641
1
14
Sidner Bank
27.93046
−92.36762
2
14
Sidner Bank
27.91368
−92.37398
3
14
Sidner Bank
27.91462
−92.38530
4
14
Sidner Bank
27.91976
−92.39427
5
14
Sidner Bank
27.92306
−92.38792
6
14
Sidner Bank
27.94525
−92.38305
7
14
Sidner Bank
27.94166
−92.37565
8
14
Sidner Bank
27.94231
−92.37189
9
14
Sidner Bank
27.93046
−92.36762
1
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.95067
−92.00294
2
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.94177
−91.99762
3
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.93547
−91.99568
4
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.92937
−91.99981
5
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.93224
−92.02999
6
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.93401
−92.03946
7
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.93958
−92.05015
8
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.95012
−92.05050
9
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.96214
−92.05407
10
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.96630
−92.04745
11
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.96869
−92.04120
12
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.96925
−92.02758
13
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.96678
−92.02175
14
15A
Parker Bank—A
27.95067
−92.00294
1
15B
Parker Bank—B
27.96082
−91.99450
2
15B
Parker Bank—B
27.96432
−91.99285
3
15B
Parker Bank—B
27.96566
−91.99014
4
15B
Parker Bank—B
27.96385
−91.98600
5
15B
Parker Bank—B
27.96149
−91.98639
6
15B
Parker Bank—B
27.95931
−91.98760
7
15B
Parker Bank—B
27.95824
−91.99183
8
15B
Parker Bank—B
27.96082
−91.99450
1
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09726
−91.99328
2
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09474
−91.98619
3
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09569
−91.97526
4
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09184
−91.97361
5
16
Alderdice Bank
28.08410
−91.97273
6
16
Alderdice Bank
28.07506
−91.97457
7
16
Alderdice Bank
28.07053
−91.98465
8
16
Alderdice Bank
28.06959
−91.99347
9
16
Alderdice Bank
28.06819
−92.00512
10
16
Alderdice Bank
28.07026
−92.01321
11
16
Alderdice Bank
28.07562
−92.02032
12
16
Alderdice Bank
28.08058
−92.02436
13
16
Alderdice Bank
28.08463
−92.02577
14
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09024
−92.02296
15
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09487
−92.01231
16
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09627
−92.00735
17
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09507
−92.00008
18
16
Alderdice Bank
28.09726
−91.99328
[86 FR 4954, Jan. 19, 2021]
Pt. 922, Subpt. L, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart L of Part 922—Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary—Terms of Designation

# Preamble
Under the authority of title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, as amended (“the Act”), 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.,
19 separate unique polygon areas of ocean waters and the submerged lands thereunder, along the continental shelf and shelf edge in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico, as described in Article II, are hereby designated as Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary for the purposes of protecting and managing the conservation, ecological, recreation, research, education, historic and aesthetic resources and qualities of these areas.

# Article I—Effect of Designation
The Act authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to issue such final regulations as are necessary and reasonable to implement the designation, including managing and protecting the conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, research, educational, and esthetic resources and qualities of a sanctuary. Section 1 of Article IV of this Designation Document lists those activities that may be regulated on the effective date of designation or at some later date in order to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Thus, the act of designation empowers the Secretary of Commerce to regulate the activities listed in Section 1. Listing does not necessarily mean that an activity will be regulated. However, if an activity is not listed it may not be regulated, except on an emergency basis, unless Section 1 of Article IV is amended by the same procedures by which the original designation was made.

# Article II—Description of the Area
The Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) boundary encompasses a total area of approximately 121 square nautical miles (160 square miles) of offshore ocean waters, and submerged lands thereunder, along the continental shelf and shelf edge in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico. The entire sanctuary boundary is composed of 19 unique polygons. The precise boundary coordinates for each polygon are listed in appendix A to this subpart.
The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 1 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 13 and contains the submerged feature of Stetson Bank with an area of approximately 1.1 square nautical miles (1.5 square miles), located approximately 71 nautical miles (82 miles) south-southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 2 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 14 and contains the submerged feature of West Flower Garden Bank with an area of approximately 28.0 square nautical miles (37.1 square miles), located approximately 97 nautical miles (111 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 3 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 16 and contains the submerged feature of Horseshoe Bank with an area of approximately 21.7 square nautical miles (28.7 square miles), located approximately 102 nautical miles (117 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 4 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 12 and contains the submerged feature of East Flower Garden Bank with an area of approximately 21.0 square nautical miles (27.8 square miles), located approximately 101 nautical miles (116 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 5 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 12 and contains the submerged feature of MacNeil Bank with an area of approximately 2.1 square nautical miles (2.7 square miles), located approximately 103 nautical miles (118 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 6 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 21 and contains the submerged features of Rankin Bank and 28 Fathom Bank with an area of approximately 4.2 square nautical miles (5.6 square miles), located approximately 109 nautical miles (126 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 7 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 13 and contains the submerged features of Bright Bank with an area of approximately 5.8 square nautical miles (7.6 square miles), located approximately 115 nautical miles (133 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 8 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 15 and contains the submerged feature of Geyer Bank within an area of approximately 8.7 square nautical miles (11.5 square miles), located approximately 126 nautical miles (145 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 9A begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 16 and contains part of the submerged feature of Elvers Bank within an area of approximately 3.3 square nautical miles (4.4 square miles), located approximately 134 nautical miles (154 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 9B begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 7 and also contains part of the submerged feature of Elvers Bank within an area of approximately 0.1 square nautical miles (0.2 square miles), located approximately 133 nautical miles (153 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 10A begins at Point 1 and continues
in numerical order to Point 16 and contains part of the submerged feature of McGrail Bank with an area of approximately 3.4 square nautical miles (4.5 square miles), located approximately 142 nautical miles (163 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 10B begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 8 and also contains part of the submerged feature of McGrail Bank with an area of approximately 0.1 square nautical miles (0.2 square miles), located approximately 146 nautical miles (168 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 11 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 23 and contains the submerged feature of Bouma Bank with an area of approximately 5.8 square nautical miles (7.7 square miles), located approximately 145 nautical miles (167 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 12 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 18 and contains the submerged feature of Sonnier Bank with an area of approximately 2.3 square nautical miles (3.1 square miles), located approximately 138 nautical miles (159 miles) east-southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 13 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 12 and contains the submerged feature of Rezak Bank with an area of approximately 2.8 square nautical miles (3.7 square miles), located approximately 151 nautical miles (174 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 14 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 9 and contains the submerged feature of Sidner Bank with an area of approximately 1.5 square nautical miles (2.0 square miles), located approximately 153 nautical miles (177 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 15A begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 14 and contains part of the submerged feature of Parker Bank within an area of approximately 5.2 square nautical miles (6.8 square miles), located approximately 168 nautical miles (194 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 15B begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 8 and also contains part of the submerged feature of Parker Bank within an area of approximately 0.1 square nautical miles (0.2 square miles), located approximately 171 nautical miles (197 miles) southeast of Galveston, Texas. The sanctuary boundary for Polygon 16 begins at Point 1 and continues in numerical order to Point 18 and contains the submerged feature of Alderdice Bank within an area of approximately 3.8 square nautical miles (5.0 square miles), located approximately 166 nautical miles (191 miles) east-southeast of Galveston, Texas.

# Article III—Characteristics of Area That Give it Particular Value
The Sanctuary contains a series of underwater features located along the edge of the continental shelf in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico. These features are of interest from both a geological and biological perspective. Formed primarily as the result of the movement of underlying salt deposits (also called salt domes or salt diapirs), and bathed by waters of tropical origin, they contain important geological features, biological habitats and other marine resources of national significance. They contain highly productive marine ecosystems that support a variety of fish and invertebrate communities of biological and economic importance.
The reefs and banks of the northwestern Gulf of Mexico are structurally complex and contain a range of marine habitats, including coral reefs, coralline algal reefs, algal nodule beds, mesophotic and deepwater reefs, and soft bottom communities. The composition, diversity and vertical distribution of benthic communities on the banks are strongly influenced by the physical environment, including water temperature, turbidity and current regime. Geological features of interest include brine seeps, exposed basalt, methane seeps, and mud volcanoes. East and West Flower Garden Banks, the most well-known of the features, sustain the northernmost living coral reefs on the U.S. continental shelf, considered among the healthiest coral reefs in the Caribbean and Western Atlantic region. A deeper water coral reef also exists at McGrail Bank, consisting primarily of large colonies of blushing star coral (
Stephanocoenia intersepta
) at depths between 140 and 160 feet. These coral reefs are isolated from other reef systems by over 300 nautical miles (342 miles) and exist under hydrographic conditions generally near the northern limit for tropical reef formation. Several other banks, including Stetson, Sonnier, Geyer, and Bright Banks, contain various combinations of non-reef building coral species known collectively as coral communities, comprised of sponges, stony corals, fire coral, leafy algae and coralline algae. The deeper portions of the banks host thriving mid-depth (or “mesophotic”) coral habitats characterized by the presence of both light-dependent and deepwater corals, including black corals, gorgonian corals, and associated organisms. Biological communities are distributed among several interrelated biotic zones, including a coralline algae zone, deep reef rocky outcrops, and soft bottom communities. The complex and biologically productive ecological communities of the banks offer a combination of aesthetic appeal and recreational and research opportunity matched in few other ocean areas.
The following are qualitative descriptions of the individual reefs and banks within the Sanctuary; specific boundary coordinates can be found in appendix A to this subpart.

# a. Stetson Bank, Depth Range 56ft-194ft
Boundaries encompass a claystone/siltstone ring feature of mesophotic coral habitat revealed by high resolution multibeam bathymetric surveys, and subsequently ground-truthed by remotely operated vehicle surveys. These features are surface expressions of the salt dome associated with the feature, and provide habitat for sponges, gorgonians, stony branching corals, black corals, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# b. West Flower Garden Bank, Depth Range 59ft-545ft
Boundaries encompass mesophotic coral patch reefs to the north, southwest, and east of the existing sanctuary. These reefs provide coralline algae reef habitat for black corals, gorgonians, stony branching corals, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# c. East Flower Garden Bank, Depth Range 52ft-446ft
Boundaries to encompass mesophotic coral patch reefs to the north and southeast of the existing sanctuary. These reefs provide deep coral habitat for dense populations of black corals, gorgonians, stony branching corals, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# d. Horseshoe Bank, Depth Range 243ft-614ft
Extensive deepwater habitat and coralline algae reefs in the form of hundreds of patchy outcroppings covering an area of approximately 1.9 miles (3km) wide and having 16.4-49.2ft (5-15m) of relief above the seafloor, with dense assemblages of mesophotic black coral, gorgonians, stony branching corals, sponges, algae invertebrates, and fish; several conical-shaped mud volcanoes clustered near the center of the feature, with one rising 328ft (100m) above the sea floor.

# e. MacNeil Bank, Depth Range 210ft-315ft
Deep reef bedrock outcrops and coralline algae patch reefs harboring populations of black corals and gorgonians, sponges, fish, and mobile invertebrates.

# f. Rankin/28 Fathom Banks, Depth Range 164ft-571ft
Rankin Bank is just north of 28 Fathom Bank, and separated from it by a long trough, approximately 1,640-foot (500 m) wide, approximately 6,070-foot (1,850 m) which extends to a depth of approximately 570ft (174 m). The boundaries encompass the shallowest portions of Rankin and 28 Fathom Banks, which harbor coral algae reefs and deep coral reefs with populations of gorgonians, black corals, sponges, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# g. Bright Bank, Depth Range 112ft-384ft
Bright Bank previously harbored a coral reef on the very shallowest portions of the bank, which sustained extensive damage from salvage and mining activities employing dynamite for excavation activities. The cap is now considered a coral community, and in spite of these impacts, nine species of shallow water scleractinian corals survive, along with two deeper water species. The feature also harbors extensive coralline algae reefs, providing habitat for populations of gorgonians, black corals, sponges, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.
h. Geyer Bank, Depth Range 128ft-722ft
Geyer Bank is a broad, relatively flat fault-bounded structure situated on an active salt diaper. This feature supports a coral community, as well as extensive coralline algae reefs and fields of algal nodules including dense fields of macro-algae, black corals, gorgonians, sponges, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates. Seasonal spawning aggregations of fish are associated with this bank, including enormous numbers of reef butterflyfish.

# i. Elvers Bank, Depth Range 213ft-686ft
Two discreet polygons have been developed to protect portions of Elvers Bank: A larger polygon encompassing 4.43 square miles on the south side of the feature, and a small polygon, encompassing 0.19 square miles on the north side of the feature. The shallow areas of the bank feature coralline algae reefs and algal nodule fields, and the deeper areas in the southern polygon harbor large deep reef outcroppings, both providing habitat for black corals, gorgonians, sponges, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates. The deep reefs also harbor glass sponge fields, a feature not documented in any other areas of the sanctuary, as well as a previously undescribed species of black coral.

# j. McGrail Bank, Depth Range 144ft-512ft
Two discreet polygons have been developed to protect portions of McGrail Bank: A larger claw shaped polygon reaching from northwest to southeast, encompassing 4.54 square miles, and a smaller polygon, encompassing 0.17 square miles, situated on the southeast of the feature that wraps around a conical shaped mound. This bank features unique areas of coral reefs dominated by large colonies of the blushing star coral,
Stephanocoenia intersepta,
with 28% live coral cover in discrete areas (no other known coral reef is dominated by this species). Pinnacles varying in diameter from ~80 to 395 feet (24-120 m) and as tall as ~25 feet (8 m) are found
on the southwest rim of the main feature, along east- and southeast-trending scarps leading away from the bank and in concentric fields to the south and southeast of the bank. A significant portion of the depth zone between 145 and 170 feet is dominated by coral colonies up to 5 feet tall, covering an area of approximately 37 acres. At least 14 species of stony corals have been recorded. Deeper portions of this site harbor mesophotic coral habitat for deep coral, coralline algae reefs, and fields of algal nodules. Dense populations of black corals, gorgonians, macro-algae fields, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates are present.

# k. Sonnier Bank, Depth Range 62ft-210ft
Sonnier Bank consists of a series of isolated clusters of pinnacles comprised of uplifted siltstone and claystone, that rise mostly around the perimeter of a single, roughly circular ring 1.9 miles (3.2km) in diameter. Two peaks are accessible and popular with recreational scuba divers. The peaks are dominated by coral communities featuring fire coral, sponges, and algae. The deeper portions of the feature are fairly heavily silted, but provide habitat for black corals, gorgonians, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# l. Bouma Bank, Depth Range 187ft-322ft
Bouma Bank is dominated by coralline algae reefs and algal nodule fields, providing habitat for populations of black corals, gorgonians, algae, branching stony coral, clusters of cup coral, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# m. Rezak Bank, Depth Range 197ft-430ft
Rezak Bank is dominated by coralline algae reefs and extensive algal nodule fields, providing habitat for populations of black corals, gorgonians, algae, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# n. Sidner Bank, Depth Range 190ft-420ft
Dominated by coralline algae reefs and extensive algal nodule fields providing habitat for populations of black corals, gorgonians, algae, sponges, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# o. Alderdice Bank, Depth Range 200ft-322ft
This feature includes spectacular basalt outcrops of Late Cretaceous origin (approximately 77 million years old) representing the oldest rock exposed on the continental shelf offshore of Louisiana and Texas. The outcrops at Alderdice Bank bear diverse, extremely dense assemblages of gorgonians and black corals, sponges, and swarms of reef fish. Mesophotic coralline algae reef habitats below the spires, silted over in areas, provide habitat for dense populations of black corals, gorgonians, sponges, branching stony corals, fields of macro-algae, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# p. Parker Bank, Depth Range 187ft-387ft
Two discreet polygons have been developed to protect portions of Parker Bank. A larger polygon bounding the central portion of the features, encompassing 6.82 square miles, and a smaller polygon to the east, encompassing 0.14 square miles. These boundaries protect the shallowest portions of the bank, which harbor coralline algae reefs and algal nodule fields and support populations of plating stony corals, black corals, gorgonians, sponges, macro-algae, and associated fish and mobile invertebrates.

# Article IV—Scope of Regulations

# Section 1. Activities Subject to Regulation
The following activities are subject to regulation, including prohibition, to the extent necessary and reasonable to ensure the protection and management of the conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, research, educational and esthetic resources and qualities of the area:
a. Anchoring or otherwise mooring within the Sanctuary;
b. Discharging or depositing, from within the boundaries of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter;
c. Discharging or depositing, from beyond the boundaries of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter;
d. Drilling into, dredging or otherwise altering the seabed of the Sanctuary; or constructing, placing or abandoning any structure, material or other matter on the seabed of the Sanctuary;
e. Exploring for, developing or producing oil, gas or minerals within the Sanctuary;
f. Taking, removing, catching, collecting, harvesting, feeding, injuring, destroying or causing the loss of, or attempting to take, remove, catch, collect, harvest, feed, injure, destroy or cause the loss of, a Sanctuary resource;
g. Possessing within the Sanctuary a Sanctuary resource or any other resource, regardless of where taken, removed, caught, collected or harvested, that, if it had been found within the Sanctuary, would be a Sanctuary resource.
h. Possessing or using within the Sanctuary any fishing gear, device, equipment or other apparatus.
i. Possessing or using airguns or explosives or releasing electrical charges within the Sanctuary.
j. Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act.

# Section 2. Consistency With International Law
Any regulation of activities listed in Section 1 of this Article will be applied and enforced as mandated by 16 U.S.C. 1435(a).
1
1
Based on the legislative history of the NMSA, NOAA has long interpreted the text of 16 U.S.C. 1435(a) as encompassing international law, including customary international law.

# Section 3. Emergency Regulations
Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality, or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss or injury, any and all activities, including those not listed in section 1 of this Article, are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition.

# Article V—Effect on Other Regulations, Leases, Permits, Licenses, and Rights

# Section 1. Fishing Regulations, Licenses, and Permits
The regulation of fishing is authorized under Article IV. All regulatory programs pertaining to fishing, including fishery management plans promulgated under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.,
shall remain in effect. Where a valid regulation promulgated under these programs conflicts with a Sanctuary regulation, the regulation deemed by the Secretary of Commerce or designee as more protective of Sanctuary resources and qualities shall govern.

# Section 2. Other Licenses, Regulations, and Permits
If any valid regulation issued by any Federal authority of competent jurisdiction, regardless of when issued, conflicts with a Sanctuary regulation, the regulation deemed by the Secretary of Commerce or designee as more protective of Sanctuary resources and qualities shall govern.
Pursuant to section 304(c)(1) of the Act, 16 U.S.C. 1434(c)(1), no valid lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization issued by any Federal authority of competent jurisdiction, or any valid right of subsistence use or access, may be terminated by the Secretary of Commerce or designee as a result of this designation or as a result of any Sanctuary regulation if such authorization or right was in existence on the effective date of this designation. However, the Secretary of Commerce or designee may regulate the exercise of such authorization or right consistent with the purposes for which the Sanctuary is designated.
Accordingly, the prohibitions set forth in the Sanctuary regulations shall not apply to any activity authorized by any valid lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation and issued by any Federal authority of competent jurisdiction, or by any valid right of subsistence use or access in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation, provided that the holder of such authorization or right complies with Sanctuary regulations regarding the certification of such authorizations and rights (e.g., notifies the Secretary or designee of the existence of, requests certification of, and provides requested information regarding such authorization or right) and complies with any terms and conditions on the exercise of such authorization or right imposed as a condition of certification by the Secretary or designee as he or she deems necessary to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated.
Pending final agency action on the certification request, such holder may exercise such authorization or right without being in violation of any prohibitions set forth in the Sanctuary regulations, provided the holder is in compliance with Sanctuary regulations regarding certifications.
The prohibitions set forth in the Sanctuary regulations shall not apply to any activity conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of the National Marine Sanctuary permit issued by the Secretary or designee in accordance with the Sanctuary regulations. Such permits may only be issued if the Secretary or designee finds that the activity for which the permit is applied will: Further research related to Sanctuary resources; further the educational, natural or historical resource value of the Sanctuary; further salvage or recovery operations in or near the Sanctuary in connection with a recent air or marine casualty; or assist in managing the Sanctuary.
The prohibitions set forth in the sanctuary regulations shall not apply to any activity conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a Special Use permit issued by the Secretary or designee in accordance with section 310 of the Act. However, in areas where sanctuary regulations prohibit oil, gas, or mineral exploration, development or production, the Secretary or designee may in no event, permit or otherwise, approve such activities in that area. Any leases, licenses, permits, approvals, or other authorizations issued after the effective date of designation authorizing the exploration or production of oil, gas, or minerals in that area shall be invalid.

# Section 3. Department of Defense Activities
The prohibitions in § 922.122(a)(2) through (11) do not apply to activities being carried out by the Department of Defense as of the effective date of designation. Such activities
shall be carried out in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities. The prohibitions in § 922.122(a)(2) through (11) do not apply to any new activities carried out by the Department of Defense that do not have the potential for any significant adverse impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities. Such activities shall be carried out in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities. New activities with the potential for significant adverse impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities may be exempted from the prohibitions in § 922.122(a)(2) through (11) of this section by the Director after consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense. If it is determined that an activity may be carried out, such activity shall be carried out in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities. In the event of threatened or actual destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an untoward incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings, caused by a component of the Department of Defense, the cognizant component shall promptly coordinate with the Director for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to respond to and mitigate the harm and, if possible, restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality.

# Article VI—Alterations to This Designation
The terms of designation may be modified only by the same procedures by which the original designation is made, including public hearings; consultation with any appropriate Federal, State, regional and local agencies; review by the appropriate Congressional committees; and approval by the Secretary of Commerce or designee.
[86 FR 4954, Jan. 19, 2021]

# Subpart M—Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
73 FR 70535, Nov. 20, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.130
Boundary.
The Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) consists of two separate areas. The combined area of both parts is approximately 4,601 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (6,093 sq. mi.).
(a) The first area consists of an area of approximately 4,016 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (5,318 sq. mi.) of coastal and ocean waters, and submerged lands thereunder, in and surrounding Monterey Bay off the central coast of California. The northern terminus of the Sanctuary boundary is located along the southern boundary of the Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary (GFNMS) beginning at Rocky Point just south of Stinson Beach in Marin County. The Sanctuary boundary follows the GFNMS boundary westward to a point approximately 29 nmi offshore from Moss Beach in San Mateo County. The Sanctuary boundary then extends southward in a series of arcs, which generally follow the 500 fathom isobath, to a point approximately 27 nmi offshore of Cambria, in San Luis Obispo County. The Sanctuary boundary then extends eastward towards shore until it intersects the Mean High Water Line (MHWL) along the coast near Cambria. The Sanctuary boundary then follows the MHWL northward to the northern terminus at Rocky Point. The shoreward Sanctuary boundary excludes a small area between Point Bonita and Point San Pedro. Pillar Point Harbor, Santa Cruz Harbor, Monterey Harbor, and Moss Landing Harbor are all excluded from the Sanctuary shoreward from the points listed in appendix A except for Moss Landing Harbor, where all of Elkhorn Slough east of the Highway One bridge, and west of the tide gate at Elkhorn Road and toward the center channel from the MHWL is included within the Sanctuary, excluding areas within the Elkhorn Slough National Estuarine Research Reserve. Exact coordinates for the seaward boundary and harbor exclusions are provided in appendix A to this subpart.
(b) The Davidson Seamount Management Zone is also part of the Sanctuary. This area, bounded by geodetic lines connecting a rectangle centered on the top of the Davidson Seamount, consists of approximately 585 square nmi (nmi
2
) (774 sq. mi.) of ocean waters and the submerged lands thereunder.
The shoreward boundary of this portion of the Sanctuary is located approximately 65 nmi off the coast of San Simeon in San Luis Obispo County. Exact coordinates for the Davidson Seamount Management Zone boundary are provided in appendix F to this subpart.
[73 FR 70535, Nov. 20, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 34048, June 15, 2015; 88 FR 967, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19827, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.131
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions found at § 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
Beneficial use of dredged material
means the use of dredged material removed from any of the four public harbors adjacent to the sanctuary (Pillar Point, Santa Cruz, Moss Landing, and Monterey) that has been determined by the Director to be suitable as a resource for habitat protection or restoration purposes only. Beneficial use of dredged material is not disposal of dredged material.
Davidson Seamount Management Zone
means the area bounded by geodetic lines connecting a rectangle centered on the top of the Davidson Seamount, and consists of approximately 585 square nmi of ocean waters and the submerged lands thereunder. The shoreward boundary of this portion of the Sanctuary is located approximately 65 nmi off the coast of San Simeon in San Luis Obispo County. Exact coordinates for the Davidson Seamount Management Zone boundary are provided in appendix F to this subpart.
Federal Project
means any water resources development project conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or operating under a permit or other authorization issued by the Corps of Engineers and authorized by Federal law.
Hand tool
means a hand-held implement, utilized for the collection of jade pursuant to 15 CFR 922.132(a)(1), that is no greater than 36 inches in length and has no moving parts (e.g., dive knife, pry bar, or abalone iron). Pneumatic, mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, or explosive tools are, therefore, examples of what does not meet this definition.
Motorized personal watercraft (MPWC)
means any vessel, propelled by machinery, that is designed to be operated by standing, sitting, or kneeling on, astride, or behind the vessel, in contrast to the conventional manner, where the operator stands or sits inside the vessel; any vessel less than 20 feet in length overall as manufactured and propelled by machinery and that has been exempted from compliance with the U.S. Coast Guard's Maximum Capacities Marking for Load Capacity regulation found at 33 CFR Parts 181 and 183, except submarines; or any other vessel that is less than 20 feet in length overall as manufactured, and is propelled by a water jet pump or drive.
[73 FR 70535, Nov. 20, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 62912, Nov. 15, 2021; 88 FR 967, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.132
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1) Exploring for, developing, or producing oil, gas, or minerals within the Sanctuary, except: Jade may be collected (meaning removed) from the area bounded by the 35.92222 N latitude parallel (coastal reference point: Beach access stairway at south Sand Dollar Beach), the 35.88889 N latitude parallel (coastal reference point: Westernmost tip of Cape San Martin), and from the mean high tide line seaward to the 90-foot isobath (depth line) (the “authorized area”) provided that:
(i) Only jade already loose from the submerged lands of the Sanctuary may be collected;
(ii) No tool may be used to collect jade except:
(A) A hand tool (as defined at 15 CFR 922.131) to maneuver or lift the jade or scratch the surface of a stone as necessary to determine if it is jade;
(B) A lift bag or multiple lift bags with a combined lift capacity of no more than two hundred pounds; or
(C) A vessel (except for motorized personal watercraft) (see paragraph (a)(7) of this section) to provide access to the authorized area;
(iii) Each person may collect only what that person individually carries; and
(iv) For any loose piece of jade that cannot be collected under paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section, any person may apply for a permit to collect such a loose piece by following the procedures in 15 CFR 922.133.
(2)(i) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary, other than from a cruise ship, any material or other matter, except:
(A) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials, or bait used in or resulting from lawful fishing activities within the Sanctuary, provided that such discharge or deposit is during the conduct of lawful fishing activities within the Sanctuary;
(B) For a vessel less than 300 gross registered tons (GRT), or a vessel 300 GRT or greater without sufficient holding tank capacity to hold sewage while within the Sanctuary, clean effluent generated incidental to vessel use by an operable Type I or II marine sanitation device (U.S. Coast Guard classification) approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1322. Vessel operators must lock all marine sanitation devices in a manner that prevents discharge or deposit of untreated sewage;
(C) Clean vessel deck wash down, clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, clean bilge water, or anchor wash;
(D) For a vessel less than 300 gross registered tons (GRT), or a vessel 300 GRT or greater without sufficient holding capacity to hold graywater while within the Sanctuary, clean graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA;
(E) Vessel engine or generator exhaust; or
(F) Dredged material deposited at disposal sites authorized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (in consultation with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE)) prior to the effective date of Sanctuary designation (January 1, 1993), provided that the activity is pursuant to, and complies with the terms and conditions of, a valid Federal permit or approval existing on January 1, 1993. Authorized disposal sites within the Sanctuary are described in appendix C to this subpart.
(ii) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary any material or other matter from a cruise ship except clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, vessel engine or generator exhaust, clean bilge water, or anchor wash.
(iii) Discharging or depositing from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except those listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (E) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section and dredged material deposited at the authorized disposal sites described in appendix D to this subpart, provided that the dredged material disposal is pursuant to, and complies with the terms and conditions of, a valid Federal permit or approval.
(3) Possessing, moving, removing, or injuring, or attempting to possess, move, remove, or injure, a Sanctuary historical resource. This prohibition does not apply to, moving, removing, or injury resulting incidentally from kelp harvesting, aquaculture, or lawful fishing activities.
(4) Drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the submerged lands of the Sanctuary; or constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary, except as incidental and necessary to:
(i) Conduct lawful fishing activities;
(ii) Anchor a vessel;
(iii) Conduct aquaculture or kelp harvesting;
(iv) Install an authorized navigational aid;
(v) Conduct harbor maintenance in an area necessarily associated with a Federal Project in existence on January 1, 1993, including dredging of entrance channels and repair, replacement, or rehabilitation of breakwaters and jetties;
(vi) Construct, repair, replace, or rehabilitate a dock or pier; or
(vii) Collect jade pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided that there is no constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary, other than temporary placement of an authorized
hand tool as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The exceptions listed in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii) through (a)(4)(vii) of this section do not apply within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone.
(5) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird within or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.,
or any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.
(6) Disturbing marine mammals or seabirds by flying motorized aircraft, except as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes, at less than 1,000 feet above any of the four zones within the Sanctuary described in Appendix B to this subpart. Failure to maintain a minimum altitude of 1,000 feet above ground level above any such zone is presumed to disturb marine mammals or seabirds.
(7) Operating motorized personal watercraft within the Sanctuary except within the four designated zones and access routes within the Sanctuary described in appendix E to this subpart. Zone Five (at Pillar Point) exists only when a High Surf Advisory has been issued by the National Weather Service and is in effect for San Mateo County, and only during December, January, and February.
(8) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken, moved, or removed from), any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, except as authorized by the MMPA, ESA, MBTA, by any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA, or as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.
(9) Deserting a vessel aground, at anchor, or adrift in the Sanctuary.
(10) Leaving harmful matter aboard a grounded or deserted vessel in the Sanctuary.
(11)(i) Moving, removing, taking, collecting, catching, harvesting, disturbing, breaking, cutting, or otherwise injuring, or attempting to move, remove, take, collect, catch, harvest, disturb, break, cut, or otherwise injure, any Sanctuary resource located more that 3,000 feet below the sea surface within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone. This prohibition does not apply to fishing below 3000 feet within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone, which is prohibited pursuant to 50 CFR part 660 (Fisheries off West Coast States).
(ii) Possessing any Sanctuary resource the source of which is more than 3,000 feet below the sea surface within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone. This prohibition does not apply to possession of fish resulting from fishing below 3000 feet within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone, which is prohibited pursuant to 50 CFR part 660 (Fisheries off West Coast States).
(12) Introducing or otherwise releasing from within or into the Sanctuary an introduced species, except striped bass (
Morone saxatilis
) released during catch and release fishing activity.
(13) Attracting any white shark within the Sanctuary.
(14) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying, or preventing an investigation, search, seizure, or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) of this section do not apply to an activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.
(c)(1) All Department of Defense activities must be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impacts on Sanctuary resources and qualities. The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) and (13) of this section do not apply to existing military activities carried out by the Department of Defense, as specifically identified in the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Management Plan for the Proposed Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary (NOAA, 1992). (Copies of the FEIS/MP are available from the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary, 99 Pacific Street, Bldg. 455A,
Monterey, California 93940.) For purposes of the Davidson Seamount Management Zone, these activities are listed in the 2008 Final Environmental Impact Statement. New activities may be exempted from the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) and (13) of this section by the Director after consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense.
(2) In the event of destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an incident, including but not limited to discharges, deposits, and groundings, caused by a Department of Defense activity, the Department of Defense, in coordination with the Director, must promptly prevent and mitigate further damage and must restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality in a manner approved by the Director.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as it pertains to jade collection in the Sanctuary, and paragraphs (a)(2) through (11) and (13) of this section, do not apply to any activity specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.133 or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.
(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (13) of this section do not apply to any activity authorized by any lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization issued after the effective date of Sanctuary designation (January 1, 1993) and issued by any Federal, State, or local authority of competent jurisdiction, provided that the applicant complies with § 922.36, the Director notifies the applicant and authorizing agency that he or she does not object to issuance of the authorization, and the applicant complies with any terms and conditions the Director deems necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Amendments and extensions of authorizations in existence on the effective date of designation constitute authorizations issued after the effective date of Sanctuary designation.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, in no event may the Director issue a National Marine Sanctuary permit or ONMS authorization under subpart D of this part authorizing, or otherwise approve, the exploration for, development, or production of oil, gas, or minerals within the Sanctuary, except for the collection of jade pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section; the discharge of primary-treated sewage within the Sanctuary (except by certification, pursuant to § 922.10, of valid authorizations in existence on January 1, 1993 and issued by other authorities of competent jurisdiction); or the disposal of dredged material within the Sanctuary other than at sites authorized by EPA (in consultation with COE) before January 1, 1993. For the purposes of this subpart, the disposal of dredged material does not include the beneficial use of dredged material as defined by § 922.131. Any purported authorizations issued by other authorities within the Sanctuary shall be invalid.
[73 FR 70535, Nov. 20, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 53571, Sept. 1, 2010; 77 FR 3922, Jan. 26, 2012; 80 FR 8786, Feb. 19, 2015; 86 FR 62912, Nov. 15, 2021; 88 FR 967, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19827, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.133
Permit procedures and criteria.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.132(a)(1) as it pertains to jade collection in the Sanctuary, § 922.132(a)(2) through (11) and (13) if conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary, 99 Pacific Street, Bldg. 455A, Monterey, California 93940.
[88 FR 868, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.134
Review of certain State permits and leases.
(a)(1) NOAA has described in a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the State of California how NOAA will coordinate review of any introduction of non-invasive introduced species from a proposed shellfish aquaculture project
when considering an authorization under § 922.132(e).
(2) The MOA specifies how the process of § 922.36 in subpart D will be administered within State waters within the sanctuary in coordination with State permit and lease programs as administered by the California Fish and Game Commission, the Department of Fish and Wildlife and the California Coastal Commission.
(b)(1) NOAA has entered into a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the State of California, EPA, and the Association of Monterey Bay Area Governments regarding the Sanctuary regulations relating to water quality within State waters within the Sanctuary.
With regard to permits, the MOA encompasses:
(i) National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits issued by the State of California under section 13377 of the California Water Code; and
(ii) Waste Discharge Requirements issued by the State of California under section 13263 of the California Water Code.
(2) The MOA specifies how the process of § 922.36 in subpart D will be administered within State waters within the Sanctuary in coordination with the State permit program.
[73 FR 70535, Nov. 20, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 8787, Feb. 19, 2015; 88 FR 19829, Apr. 4, 2023]
Pt. 922, Subpt. M, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart M of Part 922—Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Coordinates listed in this Appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
Seaward Boundary
1
37.88225
−122.62753
2
37.66641
−122.75105
3
37.61622
−122.76937
4
37.57147
−122.80399
5
37.52988
−122.85988
6
37.50948
−122.90614
7
37.49418
−123.00770
8
37.50819
−123.09617
9
37.52001
−123.12879
10
37.45304
−123.14009
11
37.34316
−123.13170
12
37.23062
−123.10431
13
37.13021
−123.02864
14
37.06295
−122.91261
15
37.03509
−122.77639
16
36.92155
−122.80595
17
36.80632
−122.81564
18
36.69192
−122.80539
19
36.57938
−122.77416
20
36.47338
−122.72568
21
36.37242
−122.65789
22
36.27887
−122.57410
23
36.19571
−122.47699
24
36.12414
−122.36527
25
36.06864
−122.24438
26
36.02451
−122.11672
27
35.99596
−121.98232
28
35.98309
−121.84069
29
35.98157
−121.75634
30
35.92933
−121.71119
31
35.83773
−121.71922
32
35.72063
−121.71216
33
35.59497
−121.69030
34
35.55327
−121.63048
35
35.55483
−121.10399
36
37.59421
−122.52001
37
37.61367
−122.61673
38
37.76694
−122.65011
39
37.81777
−122.53008
Harbor Exclusions
40
37.49414
−122.48483
41
37.49540
−122.48576
42
36.96082
−122.00175
43
36.96143
−122.00112
44
36.80684
−121.79145
45
36.80133
−121.79047
46
36.60837
−121.88970
47
36.60580
−121.88965
[75 FR 53571, Sept. 1, 2010]
Pt. 922, Subpt. M, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart M of Part 922—Zones Within the Sanctuary Where Overflights Below 1000 Feet Are Prohibited
The four zones are:
(1) From mean high water to 3 nautical miles (nmi) offshore between a line extending from Point Santa Cruz on a southwesterly bearing of 220° true and a line extending from 2.0 nmi north of Pescadero Point on a southwesterly bearing of 240° true;
(2) From mean high water to 3 nmi offshore between a line extending from the Carmel River mouth on a westerly bearing of 270° true and a line extending due west along latitude parallel 35.55488 N off of Cambria;
(3) From mean high water and within a 5 nmi seaward arc drawn from a center point of 36.80129 N, 121.79034 W (the end of the Moss Landing ocean pier as it appeared on the most current NOAA nautical charts as of January 1, 1993); and
(4) Over the Sanctuary's jurisdictional waters of Elkhorn Slough east of the Highway One bridge to Elkhorn Road.
[75 FR 53571, Sept. 1, 2010]
Pt. 922, Subpt. M, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart M of Part 922—Dredged Material Disposal Sites Within the Sanctuary
[Coordinates in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic Coordinate System) and are calculated using the North American Datum of 1983]
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
Santa Cruz Harbor/Twin Lakes Dredge Disposal Site
1
36.9625
−122.00056
2
36.9625
−121.99861
3
36.96139
−121.99833
4
36.96139
−122.00083
SF-12 Dredge Disposal Site
1
36.80207
−121.79207
2
36.80157
−121.79218
3
36.80172
−121.79325
4
36.80243
−121.79295
SF-14 Dredge Disposal Site
(circle with 500 yard radius)
1
36.79799
−121.81907
Monterey Harbor/Wharf II Dredge Disposal Site
1
36.60297
−121.88942
2
36.60283
−121.88787
3
36.60092
−121.88827
4
36.60120
−121.88978
Pt. 922, Subpt. M, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart M of Part 922—Dredged Material Disposal Sites Adjacent to the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary
[Coordinates in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic Coordinate System) and are calculated using the North American Datum of 1983]
As of January 1, 1993, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers operates the following dredged material disposal site adjacent to the Sanctuary off of the Golden Gate:
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
37.76458
−122.56900
2
37.74963
−122.62281
3
37.74152
−122.61932
4
37.75677
−122.56482
5
37.76458
−122.56900
Pt. 922, Subpt. M, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart M of Part 922—Motorized Personal Watercraft Zones and Access Routes Within the Sanctuary
[Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983]
The five zones and access routes are:
(1) The 0.96 mi
2
area off Pillar Point Harbor from harbor launch ramps, through the harbor entrance to the northern boundary of Zone One. The boundary for Zone 1 begins at Point 1 in the coordinate table listed below and continues to each subsequent point in numerical order ending at Point 6.
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1 (flashing white 5-second breakwater entrance light and horn at the seaward end of the outer west breakwater—mounted on 50-ft high white cylindrical structure)
37.49402
−122.48471
2 (triangular red dayboard with a red reflective border and flashing red 6-second light at the seaward end of the outer east breakwater—mounted on 30-ft high skeleton tower)
37.49534
−122.48568
3 (bend in middle of outer east breakwater, 660 yards west of the harbor entrance)
37.49707
−122.47941
4 (Southeast Reef—southern end green gong buoy “1S” with flashing green 6-second light)
37.46469
−122.46971
5 (red entrance buoy “2” with flashing red 4-second light)
37.47284
−122.48411
6 (flashing white 5-second breakwater entrance light and horn at the seaward end of the outer west breakwater—mounted on 50-ft high white cylindrical structure)
37.49402
−122.48471
(2) The 2.63 mi
2
area off of Santa Cruz Small Craft Harbor from harbor launch ramps, through the harbor entrance, and then along a 100-yard wide access route to the south-southwest along a bearing of approximately 196° true (183° magnetic) toward the red and white whistle buoy at 36.93899 N, 122.009612 W, until crossing between the two yellow can buoys marking, respectively, the northeast and northwest corners of the zone. The boundary for Zone 2 begins at Point 1 in the coordinate table listed below and continues to each subsequent point in numerical order ending at Point 5.
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1 (red/white striped whistle buoy “SC” with flashing white Morse code “A” light)
36.93899
−122.00961
2 (yellow can buoy)
36.95500
−122.00967
3 (yellow can buoy)
36.94167
−121.96667
4 (yellow can buoy)
36.92564
−121.96668
5 (red/white striped whistle buoy “SC” with flashing white Morse code “A” light)
36.93899
−122.00961
(3) The 2.29 mi
2
area off of Moss Landing Harbor from harbor launch ramps, through harbor entrance, and then along a 100-yard wide access route southwest along a bearing of approximately 230° true (217° magnetic) to the red and white bell buoy at 36.79893 N, 121.80157 W. The boundary for Zone 3 begins at Point 1 in the coordinate table listed below and continues to each subsequent point in numerical order ending at Point 5.
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1 (red/white striped bell buoy “MLA” with flashing white Morse code “A” light)
36.79893
−121.80157
2 (yellow can buoy)
36.77833
−121.81667
3 (yellow can buoy)
36.83333
−121.82167
4 (yellow can buoy)
36.81500
−121.80333
5 (red/white striped bell buoy “MLA” with flashing white Morse code “A” light)
36.79893
−121.80157
(4) The 3.10 mi
2
area off of Monterey Harbor from harbor launch ramps to a point midway between the seaward end of the U.S. Coast Guard Pier and the seaward end of Wharf 2, and then along a 100-yard wide access route to the northeast along a bearing of approximately 67° true (54° magnetic) to the yellow can buoy marking the southeast corner of the zone. The boundary for Zone 4 begins at Point 1 in the coordinate table listed below and continues to each subsequent point in numerical order ending at Point 6.
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1 (yellow can buoy)
36.61146
−121.87696
2 (red bell buoy “4” with flashing red 4-second light)
36.62459
−121.89594
3 (yellow can buoy)
36.65168
−121.87416
4 (yellow can buoy)
36.63833
−121.85500
6 (yellow can buoy)
36.61146
−121.87696
(5) The 0.13 mi
2
area near Pillar Point from the Pillar Point Harbor entrance along a 100-yard wide access route to the south along a bearing of approximately 174° true (161° magnetic) to the green bell buoy (identified as “Buoy 3”) at 37.48154 N, 122.48156 W and then along a 100-yard wide access route northwest along a bearing of approximately 284° true (271° magnetic) to the green gong buoy (identified as “Buoy 1”) at 37.48625 N, 122.50603 W, the southwest boundary of Zone Five. Zone Five exists only when a High Surf Advisory has been issued by the National Weather Service and is in effect for San Mateo County and only during December, January, and February. The boundary for Zone 5 begins at Point 1 in the coordinate table listed below and continues to each subsequent point in numerical order ending at Point 5.
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1 (green gong buoy “1” with flashing green 2.5-second light)
37.48625
−122.50603
2 (intersection of sight lines due north of green gong buoy “1” and due west of Sail Rock)
37.49305
−122.50603
3 (Sail Rock)
37.49305
−122.50105
4 (intersection of sight lines due east of green gong buoy “1” and due south of Sail Rock)
37.48625
−122.50105
5 (green gong buoy “1” with flashing green 2.5-second light)
37.48625
−122.50603
[86 FR 62913, Nov. 15, 2021]
Pt. 922, Subpt. M, App. F

# Appendix F to Subpart M of Part 922—Davidson Seamount Management Zone
[Coordinates in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic Coordinate System)
and are calculated using the North American Datum of 1983]
Point ID No.
Latitude
Longitude
1
35.90000
−123.00000
2
35.90000
−122.50000
3
35.50000
−122.50000
4
35.50000
−123.00000

# Subpart N—Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary
§ 922.140
Boundary.
(a) The Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) consists of an area of approximately 639 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (846 sq. mi.) of Federal marine waters and the submerged lands thereunder, over and around Stellwagen Bank and other submerged features off the coast of Massachusetts. The boundary encompasses the entirety of Stellwagen Bank; Tillies Bank, to the northeast of Stellwagen Bank; and portions of Jeffreys Ledge, to the north of Stellwagen Bank.
(b) The Sanctuary boundary is identified by the following coordinates, indicating the most northeast, southeast, southwest, west-northwest, and north-northwest points: 42.76672 −70.21664 (NE); 42.09330 −70.03506 (SE); 42.12924 −70.47043 (SW); 42.54830 −70.59737 (WNW); and 42.65123 −70.50262 (NNW). The western border is formed by a straight line connecting the most southwest and the west-northwest points of the Sanctuary. At the most west-northwest point, the Sanctuary border follows a line contiguous with the three-mile jurisdictional boundary of Massachusetts to the most north-northwest point. From this point, the northern border is formed by a straight line connecting the most north-northwest point and the most northeast point. The eastern border is formed by a straight line connecting the most northeast and the most southeast points of the Sanctuary. The southern border follows a straight line between the most southwest point and a point located at 42.11526 −70.27800. From that point, the southern border then continues in a west-to-east direction along a line contiguous with the three-mile jurisdictional boundary of Massachusetts until reaching the most southeast point of the Sanctuary. The boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart.
[60 FR 66877, Dec. 27, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.141
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions found at § 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
Industrial material
means mineral, as defined in § 922.11.
Traditional fishing
means those commercial or recreational fishing methods which have been conducted in the past within the Sanctuary.
[60 FR 66877, Dec. 27, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.142
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1)(i) Discharging or depositing, from within the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter except:
(A) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials or bait used in or resulting from traditional fishing operations in the Sanctuary;
(B) Biodegradable effluent incidental to vessel use and generated by marine sanitation devices approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1322
et seq.;
(C) Water generated by routine vessel operations (e.g., cooling water, deck wash down and graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA) excluding oily wastes from bilge pumping; or
(D) Engine exhaust.
(ii) Discharging or depositing, from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter, except those listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) (A) through (D) of this section, that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality.
(2) Exploring for, developing or producing industrial materials within the Sanctuary.
(3) Drilling into, dredging or otherwise altering the seabed of the Sanctuary; or constructing, placing or
abandoning any structure, material or other matter on the seabed of the Sanctuary, except as an incidental result of:
(i) Anchoring vessels;
(ii) Traditional fishing operations; or
(iii) Installation of navigation aids.
(4) Moving, removing or injuring, or attempting to move, remove or injure, a Sanctuary historical resource. This prohibition does not apply to moving, removing or injury resulting incidentally from traditional fishing operations.
(5) Taking any marine reptile, marine mammal or seabird in or above the Sanctuary, except as permitted by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
the Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.
(6) Lightering in the Sanctuary.
(7) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken, moved or removed from), except as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes, any historical resource, or any marine mammal, marine reptile or seabird taken in violation of the MMPA, ESA or MBTA.
(8) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (1), and (3) through (8) of this section do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property or the environment.
(c)(1)(i) All Department of Defense military activities shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impacts on Sanctuary resources and qualities.
(ii) Department of Defense military activities may be exempted from the prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (1) and (3) through (7) of this section by the Director after consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense.
(iii) If it is determined that an activity may be carried out, such activity shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any advance impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities. Civil engineering and other civil works projects conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are excluded from the scope of this paragraph(c).
(2) In the event of threatened or actual destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an untoward incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings caused by the Department of Defense, the Department of Defense shall promptly coordinate with the Director for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to respond to and mitigate the harm and, if possible, restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) through (7) of this section do not apply to any activity specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.143 or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.
(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) through (7) of this section do not apply any activity authorized by any lease, permit, license, approval or other authorization issued after the effective date of Sanctuary designation (November 4, 1992) and issued by any Federal, State or local authority of competent jurisdiction, provided that the applicant complies with § 922.49, the Director notifies the applicant and authorizing agency that he or she does not object to issuance of the authorization, and the applicant complies with any terms and conditions the Director deems necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Amendments, renewals and extensions of authorizations in existence on the effective date of designation constitute authorizations issued after the effective date.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, in no event may the Director issue a permit under subpart D of this part and § 922.143, or
under section 310 of the act, authorizing, or otherwise approving, the exploration for, development or production of industrial materials within the Sanctuary, or the disposal of dredged materials within the Sanctuary (except by a certification, pursuant to § 922.10, of valid authorizations in existence on November 4, 1992) and any leases, licenses, permits, approvals or other authorizations authorizing the exploration for, development or production of industrial materials in the Sanctuary issued by other authorities after November 4, 1992, shall be invalid.
[60 FR 66877, Dec. 27, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19828, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.143
Permit procedures.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.142(a)(1) and (3) through (7) if conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for such permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary, 175 Edward Foster Road, Scituate, MA 02066.
[88 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2023]
Pt. 922, Subpt. N, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart N of Part 922—Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Pt.
Latitude
Longitude
E1
42.76672
−70.21664
E2
42.09330
−70.03506
E3
42.10239
−70.05434
E4
42.10081
−70.06707
E5
42.11752
−70.08658
E6
42.12038
−70.10607
E7
42.12675
−70.12388
E8
42.12853
−70.14005
E9
42.13342
−70.15497
E10
42.13481
−70.17292
E11
42.13210
−70.19605
E12
42.13339
−70.21707
E13
42.12970
−70.23889
E14
42.12435
−70.25585
E15
42.11526
−70.27800
E16
42.12924
−70.47043
E17
42.54830
−70.59737
E18
42.55850
−70.58697
E19
42.56347
−70.58388
E20
42.57522
−70.57254
E21
42.58075
−70.55558
E22
42.58790
−70.54179
E23
42.59504
−70.52843
E24
42.60651
−70.51587
E25
42.62107
−70.50588
E26
42.63312
−70.50132
E27
42.64245
−70.50130
E28
42.65123
−70.50262
[88 FR 969, Jan. 6, 2023]

# Subpart O—Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary
§ 922.150
Boundary.
(a) The Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) consists of an area of approximately 2,408 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (3,188 sq. mi.) of coastal and ocean waters, and the submerged lands thereunder, off the central and northern coast of the State of Washington.
(b) The Sanctuary boundary extends from Koitlah Point due north to the United States/Canada international boundary. The Sanctuary boundary then follows the U.S./Canada international boundary seaward to the 100 fathom isobath. The seaward boundary of the Sanctuary approximates the 100 fathom isobath in a southerly direction from the U.S./Canada international boundary to a point due west of the mouth of the Copalis River cutting across the heads of Nitnat, Juan de Fuca and Quinault Canyons. The coastal boundary of the Sanctuary is the mean higher high water line when adjacent to Federally managed lands cutting across the mouths of all rivers and streams, except where adjacent to Indian reservations, State and county owned lands; in such case, the coastal boundary is the mean lower low water line. La Push harbor is excluded from the Sanctuary boundary shoreward of the International Collision at Sea regulation (Colreg.) demarcation lines. The boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart.
[60 FR 66877, Dec. 27, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 67360, Nov. 1, 2011; 88 FR 969, Jan.6, 2023]
§ 922.151
Definitions.
In addition to those definitions found at § 922.11, the following definitions apply to this subpart:
Indian reservation
means a tract of land set aside by the Federal Government for use by a federally recognized American Indian tribe and includes, but is not limited to, the Makah, Quileute, Hoh, and Quinault Reservations.
Lawful fishing
means fishing authorized by a tribal, State or Federal entity with jurisdiction over the activity.
Treaty
means a formal agreement between the United States Government and an Indian tribe.
[76 FR 67360, Nov. 1, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 969, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.152
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1) Exploring for, developing or producing oil, gas or minerals within the Sanctuary.
(2)(i) Discharging or depositing, from within or into the Sanctuary, other than from a cruise ship, any material or other matter except:
(A) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials or bait used in or resulting from lawful fishing operations in the Sanctuary;
(B) Biodegradable effluent incidental to vessel use and generated by marine sanitation devices approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1322
et seq.;
(C) Water generated by routine vessel operations (e.g., cooling water, deck wash down, and graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA) excluding oily wastes from bilge pumping;
(D) Engine exhaust; or
(E) Dredge spoil in connection with beach nourishment projects related to the Quillayute River Navigation Project.
(ii) Discharging or depositing, from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter, except those listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality.
(3) Discharging or depositing, from within or into the Sanctuary, any materials or other matter from a cruise ship except clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, clean bilge water, engine exhaust, or anchor wash.
(4) Moving, removing or injuring, or attempting to move, remove or injure, a Sanctuary historical resource. This prohibition does not apply to moving, removing or injury resulting incidentally from lawful fishing operations.
(5) Drilling into, dredging or otherwise altering the seabed of the Sanctuary; or constructing, placing or abandoning any structure, material or other matter on the submerged lands of the Sanctuary, except as an incidental result of:
(i) Anchoring vessels;
(ii) Lawful fishing operations;
(iii) Installation of navigation aids;
(iv) Harbor maintenance in the areas necessarily associated with the Quillayute River Navigation Project, including dredging of entrance channels and repair, replacement or rehabilitation of breakwaters and jetties, and related beach nourishment;
(v) Construction, repair, replacement or rehabilitation of boat launches, docks or piers, and associated breakwaters and jetties; or
(vi) Beach nourishment projects related to harbor maintenance activities.
(6) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle or seabird in or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
the Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.,
or pursuant to any Indian treaty with an Indian tribe to which the United States is a party, provided that the Indian treaty right is exercised in accordance with the MMPA, ESA, and MBTA, to the extent that they apply.
(7) Disturbing marine mammals or seabirds by flying motorized aircraft at less than 2,000 feet over the waters within one nautical mile of the Flattery Rocks, Quillayute Needles, or
Copalis National Wildlife Refuges or within one nautical mile seaward from the coastal boundary of the Sanctuary, except for activities related to tribal timber operations conducted on reservation lands, or to transport persons or supplies to or from reservation lands as authorized by a governing body of an Indian tribe. Failure to maintain a minimum altitude of 2,000 feet above ground level over any such waters is presumed to disturb marine mammals or seabirds.
(8) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken, moved or removed from) any historical resource, or any marine mammal, sea turtle, or seabird taken in violation of the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA, to the extent that they apply.
(9) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a)(2) through (5), (7), and (8) of this section do not apply to activities necessary to respond to emergencies threatening life, property, or the environment.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (5), (7), and (8) of this section do not apply to activities necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.
(d)(1) All Department of Defense military activities shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impacts on Sanctuary resources and qualities.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (8) of this section do not apply to the following military activities performed by the Department of Defense in W-237A, W-237B, and Military Operating Areas Olympic A and B in the Sanctuary:
(A) Hull integrity tests and other deep water tests;
(B) Live firing of guns, missiles, torpedoes, and chaff;
(C) Activities associated with the Quinault Range including the in-water testing of non-explosive torpedoes; and
(D) Anti-submarine warfare operations.
(ii) New activities may be exempted from the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (8) of this section by the Director after consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense. If it is determined that an activity may be carried out such activity shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities. Civil engineering and other civil works projects conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are excluded from the scope of this paragraph (d).
(2) The Department of Defense is prohibited from conducting bombing activities within the Sanctuary.
(3) In the event of threatened or actual destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an untoward incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings caused by the Department of Defense, the Department of Defense shall promptly coordinate with the Director for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to respond to and mitigate the harm and, if possible, restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality.
(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (8) of this section do not apply to any activity specifically authorized by and conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit or an ONMS authorization issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.153 or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.
(f) Members of a federally recognized Indian tribe may exercise aboriginal and treaty-secured rights, subject to the requirements of other applicable law, without regard to the requirements of this part. The Director may consult with the governing body of a tribe regarding ways the tribe may exercise such rights consistent with the purposes of the Sanctuary.
(g) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (8) of this section do not apply to any activity authorized by any lease, permit, license, or other authorization issued after July 22, 1994,
and issued by any Federal, State or local authority of competent jurisdiction, provided that the applicant complies with § 922.49, the Director notifies the applicant and authorizing agency that he or she does not object to issuance of the authorization, and the applicant complies with any terms and conditions the Director deems necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Amendments, renewals and extensions of authorizations in existence on the effective date of designation constitute authorizations issued after the effective date.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraphs (e) and (g) of this section, in no event may the Director issue a National Marine Sanctuary permit or ONMS authorization under subpart D of this part and § 922.153 or a special use permit under section 310 of the Act authorizing, or otherwise approve: The exploration for, development or production of oil, gas or minerals within the Sanctuary; the discharge of primary-treated sewage within the Sanctuary (except by certification, pursuant to § 922.10, of valid authorizations in existence on July 22, 1994 and issued by other authorities of competent jurisdiction); the disposal of dredged material within the Sanctuary other than in connection with beach nourishment projects related to the Quillayute River Navigation Project; or bombing activities within the Sanctuary. Any purported authorizations issued by other authorities after July 22, 1994 for any of these activities within the Sanctuary shall be invalid.
[76 FR 67360, Nov. 1, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 3922, Jan. 26, 2012; 88 FR 969, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19828, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.153
Permit procedures and criteria.
(a) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by § 922.152(a)(2) through (8) if conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit or ONMS authorization issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for such permits or ONMS authorizations should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary, 115 E Railroad Ave., Suite 301, Port Angeles, WA 98362.
(c) The Director shall obtain the express written consent of the governing body of an Indian tribe prior to issuing a permit, if the proposed activity involves or affects resources of cultural or historical significance to the tribe.
(d) Removal or attempted removal of any Indian cultural resource or artifact may only occur with the express written consent of the governing body of the tribe or tribes to which such resource or artifact pertains, and certification by the Director that such activities occur in a manner that minimizes damage to the biological and archeological resources. Prior to permitting entry onto a significant cultural site designated by a tribal governing body, the Director shall require the express written consent of the governing body of the tribe or tribes to which such cultural site pertains.
(e) Where the issuance or denial of a permit is requested by the governing body of a Washington Coast treaty tribe, the Director shall consider and protect the interests of the tribe to the fullest extent practicable in keeping with the purposes of the Sanctuary and his or her fiduciary duties to the tribe.
[88 FR 969, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.154
Consultation with the State of Washington, affected Indian tribes, and adjacent county governments.
(a) The Director shall regularly consult with the State of Washington, the governing bodies of tribes with reservations adjacent to the Sanctuary, and adjacent county governments regarding areas of mutual concern, including Sanctuary programs, permitting, activities, development, and threats to Sanctuary resources.
(b) The Director shall, when requested by such governments, enter into a memorandum of understanding regarding such consultations.
Pt. 922, Subpt. O, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart O of Part 922—Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
47.12917
−124.18389
2
47.12917
−124.97000
3
47.58472
−125.00000
4
47.66806
−125.07889
5
47.83361
−125.09500
6
47.95361
−125.48694
7
48.12583
−125.63889
8
48.25000
−125.68167
9
48.30589
−125.50081
10
48.33756
−125.38136
11
48.44617
−125.15469
12
48.45256
−125.14164
13
48.46894
−125.09775
14
48.49533
−125.00303
15
48.49894
−124.98886
16
48.50367
−124.91581
17
48.50589
−124.84053
18
48.50283
−124.78831
19
48.49344
−124.72725
20
48.46889
−124.63694
21
48.38806
−124.63694
[88 FR 969, Jan. 6, 2023]

# Subpart P—Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
62 FR 32161, June 12, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.160
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of the regulations in this subpart is to implement the comprehensive management plan for the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary by regulating activities affecting the resources of the Sanctuary or any of the qualities, values, or purposes for which the Sanctuary is designated, in order to protect, preserve and manage the conservation, ecological, recreational, research, educational, historical, and aesthetic resources and qualities of the area. In particular, the regulations in this part are intended to protect, restore, and enhance the living resources of the Sanctuary, to contribute to the maintenance of natural assemblages of living resources for future generations, to provide places for species dependent on such living resources to survive and propagate, to facilitate to the extent compatible with the primary objective of resource protection all public and private uses of the resources of the Sanctuary not prohibited pursuant to other authorities, to reduce conflicts between such compatible uses, and to achieve the other policies and purposes of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary and Protection Act and the National Marine Sanctuaries Act.
(b) Section 304(e) of the NMSA requires the Secretary to review management plans and regulations every five years, and make necessary revisions. Upon completion of the five year review of the Sanctuary management plan and regulations, the Secretary will repropose the regulations in their entirety with any proposed changes thereto, including those regulations in subparts A and E of this part that apply to the Sanctuary. The Governor of the State of Florida will have the opportunity to review the re-proposed regulations before they take effect and if the Governor certifies such regulations as unacceptable, they will not take effect in State waters of the Sanctuary.
§ 922.161
Boundary.
The sanctuary consists of an area of approximately 2,872 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (3,803 sq. mi.) of coastal and ocean waters, and the submerged lands thereunder, surrounding the Florida Keys in Florida. Appendix I to this subpart sets forth the precise Sanctuary boundary.
[88 FR 969, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.162
Definitions.
(a) The following definitions apply to the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary regulations. To the extent that a term appears in § 922.11 and this section, the definition in this section governs.
Acts
means the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary and Protection Act, as amended, (FKNMSPA) (Pub. L. 101-605), and the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA), also known as Title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, as amended, (MPRSA) (16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
).
Adverse effect
means any factor, force, or action that independently or cumulatively damages, diminishes, degrades, impairs, destroys, or otherwise harms any Sanctuary resource, as defined in section 302(8) of the NMSA (16 U.S.C. 1432(8)) and in this section, or any of the qualities, values, or purposes for which the Sanctuary is designated.
Airboat
means a vessel operated by means of a motor driven propeller that pushes air for momentum.
Areas To Be Avoided
means the areas in which vessel operations are prohibited pursuant to section 6(a)(1) of the FKNMSPA (see § 922.164(a)). Appendix VII to this subpart sets forth the geographic coordinates of these areas, including any modifications thereto made in accordance with section 6(a)(3) of the FKNMSPA.
Closed
means all entry or use is prohibited.
Coral
means but is not limited to the corals of the Class Hydrozoa (stinging and hydrocorals); Class Anthozoa, Subclass Hexacorallia, Order Scleractinia (stony corals); Class Anthozoa, Subclass Ceriantipatharia, Order Antipatharia (black corals); and Class Anthozoa, Subclass Ocotocorallia, Order Gorgonacea, species
Gorgonia ventalina
and
Gorgonia flabellum
(sea fans).
Coral area
means marine habitat where coral growth abounds including patch reefs, outer bank reefs, deepwater banks, and hardbottoms.
Coral reefs
means the hard bottoms, deep-water banks, patch reefs, and outer bank reefs.
Ecological Reserve
means an area of the Sanctuary consisting of contiguous, diverse habitats, within which uses are subject to conditions, restrictions and prohibitions, including access restrictions, intended to minimize human influences, to provide natural spawning, nursery, and permanent residence areas for the replenishment and genetic protection of marine life, and also to protect and preserve natural assemblages of habitats and species within areas representing a broad diversity of resources and habitats found within the Sanctuary. Appendix IV to this subpart sets forth the geographic coordinates of these areas.
Existing Management Area
means an area of the Sanctuary that is within or is a resource management area established by NOAA or by another Federal authority of competent jurisdiction as of the effective date of these regulations where protections above and beyond those provided by Sanctuary-wide prohibitions and restrictions are needed to adequately protect resources. Appendix II to this subpart sets forth the geographic coordinates of these areas.
Exotic species
means a species of plant, invertebrate, fish, amphibian, reptile or mammal whose natural zoogeographic range would not have included the waters of the Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean, or Gulf of Mexico without passive or active introduction to such area through anthropogenic means.
Fishing
means:
(1) The catching, taking, or harvesting of fish; the attempted catching, taking, or harvesting of fish; any other activity which can reasonably be expected to result in the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish; or any operation at sea in support of, or in preparation for, any activity described in this subparagraph (1).
(2) Such term does not include any scientific research activity which is conducted by a scientific research vessel.
Hardbottom
means a submerged marine community comprised of organisms attached to exposed solid rock substrate. Hardbottom is the substrate to which corals may attach but does not include the corals themselves.
Idle speed only/no-wake
means a speed at which a boat is operated that is no greater than 4 knots or does not produce a wake.
Idle speed only/no-wake zone
means a portion of the Sanctuary where the speed at which a boat is operated may be no greater than 4 knots or may not produce a wake.
Length overall (LOA)
or
length
means, as used in § 922.167 with respect to a vessel, the horizontal distance, rounded to the nearest foot (with 0.5 ft and above rounded upward), between the foremost part of the stem and the aftermost part of the stern, excluding bowsprits, rudders, outboard motor brackets, and similar fittings or attachments.
Live rock
means any living marine organism or an assemblage thereof attached to a hard substrate, including dead coral or rock but not individual mollusk shells (e.g., scallops, clams, oysters). Living marine organisms associated with hard bottoms, banks, reefs, and live rock may include, but
are not limited to: sea anemones (Phylum Cnidaria: Class Anthozoa: Order Actinaria); sponges (Phylum Porifera); tube worms (Phylum Annelida), including fan worms, feather duster worms, and Christmas tree worms; bryozoans (Phylum Bryzoa); sea squirts (Phylum Chordata); and marine algae, including Mermaid's fan and cups (Udotea spp.), corraline algae, green feather, green grape algae (Caulerpa spp.) and watercress (Halimeda spp.).
Marine life species
means any species of fish, invertebrate, or plant included in sections (2), (3), or (4) of Rule 46-42.001, Florida Administrative Code, reprinted in appendix VIII to this subpart.
Military activity
means an activity conducted by the Department of Defense with or without participation by foreign forces, other than civil engineering and other civil works projects conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
No-access buffer zone
means a portion of the Sanctuary where vessels are prohibited from entering regardless of the method of propulsion.
No motor zone
means an area of the Sanctuary where the use of internal combustion motors is prohibited. A vessel with an internal combustion motor may access a no motor zone only through the use of a push pole, paddle, sail, electric motor or similar means of operation but is prohibited from using it's internal combustion motor.
Not available for immediate use
means not readily accessible for immediate use, e.g., by being stowed unbaited in a cabin, locker, rod holder, or similar storage area, or by being securely covered and lashed to a deck or bulkhead.
Officially marked channel
means a channel marked by Federal, State of Florida, or Monroe County officials of competent jurisdiction with navigational aids except for channels marked idle speed only/no wake.
Personal watercraft
means any jet or air-powered watercraft operated by standing, sitting, or kneeling on or behind the vessel, in contrast to a conventional boat, where the operator stands or sits inside the vessel, and that uses an inboard engine to power a water jet pump for propulsion, instead of a propeller as in a conventional boat.
Prop dredging
means the use of a vessel's propulsion wash to dredge or otherwise alter the seabed of the Sanctuary. Prop dredging includes, but is not limited to, the use of propulsion wash deflectors or similar means of dredging or otherwise altering the seabed of the Sanctuary. Prop dredging does not include the disturbance to bottom sediments resulting from normal vessel propulsion.
Prop scarring
means the injury to seagrasses or other immobile organisms attached to the seabed of the Sanctuary caused by operation of a vessel in a manner that allows its propeller or other running gear, or any part thereof, to cause such injury (e.g., cutting seagrass rhizomes). Prop scarring does not include minor disturbances to bottom sediments or seagrass blades resulting from normal vessel propulsion.
Residential shoreline
means any man-made or natural:
(1) Shoreline,
(2) Canal mouth,
(3) Basin, or
(4) Cove adjacent to any residential land use district, including improved subdivision, suburban residential or suburban residential limited, sparsely settled, urban residential, and urban residential mobile home under the Monroe County land development regulations.
Sanctuary
means the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary.
Sanctuary Preservation Area
means an area of the Sanctuary that encompasses a discrete, biologically important area, within which uses are subject to conditions, restrictions and prohibitions, including access restrictions, to avoid concentrations of uses that could result in significant declines in species populations or habitat, to reduce conflicts between uses, to protect areas that are critical for sustaining important marine species or habitats, or to provide opportunities for scientific research. Appendix V to this subpart sets forth the geographic coordinates of these areas.
Sanctuary wildlife
means any species of fauna, including avifauna, that occupy or utilize the submerged resources of the Sanctuary as nursery areas, feeding grounds, nesting sites, shelter, or other habitat during any portion of their life cycles.
Special-use Area
means an area of the Sanctuary set aside for scientific research and educational purposes, recovery or restoration of Sanctuary resources, monitoring, to prevent use or user conflicts, to facilitate access and use, or to promote public use and understanding of Sanctuary resources. Appendix VI to this subpart sets forth the geographic coordinates of these areas.
Stem
means the foremost part of a vessel, consisting of a section of timber or fiberglass, or cast, forged, or rolled metal, to which the sides of the vessel are united at the fore end, with the lower end united to the keel, and with the bowsprit, if one is present, resting on the upper end.
Stern
means the aftermost part of the vessel.
Tank vessel
means any vessel that is constructed or adapted to carry, or that carries, oil or hazardous material in bulk as cargo or cargo residue, and that—
(1) Is a United States flag vessel;
(2) Operates on the navigable waters of the United States; or
(3) Transfers oil or hazardous material in a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States [46 U.S.C. 2101].
Traditional fishing
means those commercial or recreational fishing activities that were customarily conducted within the Sanctuary prior to its designation as identified in the Environmental Impact Statement and Management Plan for this Sanctuary.
Tropical fish
means any species included in section (2) of Rule 46-42.001, Florida Administrative Code, reproduced in appendix VIII to this subpart, or any part thereof.
Wildlife Management Area
means an area of the Sanctuary established for the management, protection, and preservation of Sanctuary wildlife resources, including such an area established for the protection and preservation of endangered or threatened species or their habitats, within which access is restricted to minimize disturbances to Sanctuary wildlife; to ensure protection and preservation consistent with the Sanctuary designation and other applicable law governing the protection and preservation of wildlife resources in the Sanctuary. Appendix III to this subpart lists these areas and their access restrictions.
(b) Other terms appearing in the regulations in this part are defined at § 922.11, and/or in the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act (MPRSA), as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.
and 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
[62 FR 32161, June 12, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 4369, Jan. 17, 2001; 74 FR 38094, July 31, 2009; 88 FR 970, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19828, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.163
Prohibited activities—Sanctuary-wide.
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) through (e) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1)
Mineral and hydrocarbon exploration, development and production.
Exploring for, developing, or producing minerals or hydrocarbons within the Sanctuary.
(2)
Removal of, injury to, or possession of coral or live rock.
(i) Moving, removing, taking, harvesting, damaging, disturbing, touching, breaking, cutting, or otherwise injuring, or possessing (regardless of where taken from) any living or dead coral, or coral formation, or attempting any of these activities, except as permitted under 50 CFR part 622.
(ii) Harvesting, or attempting to harvest, any live rock from the Sanctuary, or possessing (regardless of where taken from) any live rock within the Sanctuary, except as authorized by a permit for the possession or harvest from aquaculture operations in the Exclusive Economic Zone, issued by the National Marine Fisheries Service pursuant to applicable regulations under the appropriate Fishery Management Plan, or as authorized by the applicable State authority of competent jurisdiction within the Sanctuary for live rock cultured on State submerged lands leased from the State of Florida,
pursuant to applicable State law.
See
§ 370.027, Florida Statutes and implementing regulations.
(3)
Alteration of, or construction on, the seabed.
Drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the seabed of the Sanctuary, or engaging in prop-dredging; or constructing, placing or abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on the seabed of the Sanctuary, except as an incidental result of:
(i) Anchoring vessels in a manner not otherwise prohibited by this part (see §§ 922.163(a)(5)(ii) and 922.164(d)(1)(v));
(ii) Traditional fishing activities not otherwise prohibited by this part;
(iii) Installation and maintenance of navigational aids by, or pursuant to valid authorization by, any Federal, State, or local authority of competent jurisdiction;
(iv) Harbor maintenance in areas necessarily associated with Federal water resource development projects in existence on July 1, 1997, including maintenance dredging of entrance channels and repair, replacement, or rehabilitation of breakwaters or jetties;
(v) Construction, repair, replacement, or rehabilitation of docks, seawalls, breakwaters, piers, or marinas with less than ten slips authorized by any valid lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization issued by any Federal, State, or local authority of competent jurisdiction.
(4)
Discharge or deposit of materials or other matter.
(i) Discharging or depositing, from within the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter, except:
(A) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials, or bait used or produced incidental to and while conducting a traditional fishing activity in the Sanctuary;
(B) Water generated by routine vessel operations (e.g., deck wash down and graywater as defined in section 312 of the FWPCA), excluding oily wastes from bilge pumping; or
(C) Cooling water from vessels or engine exhaust;
(ii) Discharging or depositing, from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except:
(A) Those listed in paragraph (a)(4)(i)(A) through (a)(4)(i)(C) of this section;
(B) Sewage incidental to vessel use and generated by a marine sanitation device approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA), as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1322
et seq.;
(C) Those authorized under Monroe County land use permits; or
(D) Those authorized under State permits.
(5)
Operation of vessels.
(i) Operating a vessel in such a manner as to strike or otherwise injure coral, seagrass, or any other immobile organism attached to the seabed, including, but not limited to, operating a vessel in such a manner as to cause prop-scarring.
(ii) Having a vessel anchored on living coral other than hardbottom in water depths less than 40 feet when visibility is such that the seabed can be seen.
(iii) Except in officially marked channels, operating a vessel at a speed greater than 4 knots or in manner which creates a wake:
(A) Within an area designated idle speed only/no wake;
(B) Within 100 yards of navigational aids indicating emergent or shallow reefs (international diamond warning symbol);
(C) Within 100 yards of the red and white “divers down” flag (or the blue and white “alpha” flag in Federal waters);
(D) Within 100 yards of residential shorelines; or
(E) Within 100 yards of stationary vessels.
(iv) Operating a vessel in such a manner as to injure or take wading, roosting, or nesting birds or marine mammals.
(v) Operating a vessel in a manner which endangers life, limb, marine resources, or property.
(vi) Having a marine sanitation device that is not secured in a manner that prevents discharges or deposits of treated and untreated sewage. Acceptable methods include, but are not limited to, all methods that have been approved by the U.S. Coast Guard (at 33 CFR 159.7(b) and (c)).
(6)
Conduct of diving/snorkeling without flag.
Diving or snorkeling without flying in a conspicuous manner the red and white “divers down” flag (or the blue and white “alpha” flag in Federal waters).
(7)
Release of exotic species.
Introducing or releasing an exotic species of plant, invertebrate, fish, amphibian, or mammals into the Sanctuary.
(8)
Damage or removal of markers.
Marking, defacing, or damaging in any way or displacing, removing, or tampering with any official signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent, or with any navigational aids, monuments, stakes, posts, mooring buoys, boundary buoys, trap buoys, or scientific equipment.
(9)
Movement of, removal of, injury to, or possession of Sanctuary historical resources.
Moving, removing, injuring, or possessing, or attempting to move, remove, injure, or possess, a Sanctuary historical resource.
(10)
Take or possession of protected wildlife.
Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or seabird in or above the Sanctuary,
except
as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
the Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA) 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.
(11)
Possession or use of explosives or electrical charges.
Possessing, or using explosives, except powerheads, or releasing electrical charges within the Sanctuary.
(12)
Harvest or possession of marine life species.
Harvesting, possessing, or landing any marine life species, or part thereof, within the Sanctuary, except in accordance with rules 68B-42 of the Florida Administrative Code, and such rules shall apply mutatis mutandis (with necessary editorial changes) to all Federal and State waters within the Sanctuary.
(13)
Interference with law enforcement.
Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure, or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Acts or any regulation or permit issued under the Acts.
(b) Notwithstanding the prohibitions in this section and in § 922.164, and any access and use restrictions imposed pursuant thereto, a person may conduct an activity specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to § 922.166 and subpart D of this part.
(c) Notwithstanding the prohibitions in this section and in § 922.164, and any access and use restrictions imposed pursuant thereto, a person may conduct an activity specifically authorized by any valid Federal, State, or local lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization issued after the effective date of these regulations, provided that the applicant complies with § 922.36, the Director notifies the applicant and authorizing agency that he or she does not object to issuance of the authorization, and the applicant complies with any terms and conditions the Director deems reasonably necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Amendments of authorizations in existence on the effective date of these regulations constitute authorizations issued after the effective date of these regulations.
(d)(1) All military activities shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practical any adverse impacts on Sanctuary resources and qualities. The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section and § 922.164 do not apply to existing classes of military activities which were conducted prior to the effective date of these regulations, as identified in the Environmental Impact Statement and Management Plan for the Sanctuary. New military activities in the Sanctuary are allowed and may be exempted from the prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section and in § 922.164 by the Director after consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense pursuant to section 304(d) of the NMSA. When a military activity is modified such that it is likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure a Sanctuary resource or quality in a manner significantly greater than was considered in a previous consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA, or it is likely to destroy, cause the loss of,
or injure a Sanctuary resource or quality not previously considered in a previous consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA, the activity is considered a new activity for purposes of this paragraph. If it is determined that an activity may be carried out, such activity shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practical any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities.
(2) In the event of threatened or actual destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an untoward incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings caused by the Department of Defense, the cognizant component shall promptly coordinate with the Director for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to prevent, respond to or mitigate the harm and, if possible, restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality.
(e) The following prohibitions do not apply to Federal, State and local officers while performing enforcement duties in their official capacities or responding to emergencies that threaten life, property, or the environment:
(1) Those contained in paragraph (a)(4) of this section only as it pertains to discharges of sewage incidental to vessel use and generated by a marine sanitation device approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA), as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1322
et seq.;
and
(2) Those contained in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(f) In no event may the Director issue a certification, authorization, or permit under §§ 922.10, 922.163(c), and 922.166 and subpart D of this part, respectively, authorizing, or otherwise approving, the exploration for, leasing, development, or production of minerals or hydrocarbons within the Sanctuary, the disposal of dredged material within the Sanctuary other than in connection with beach renourishment or Sanctuary restoration projects, or the discharge of untreated or primary treated sewage, and any purported authorizations issued by other authorities for any of these activities within the Sanctuary shall be invalid.
(g) Any amendment to these regulations shall not take effect in Florida State waters until approved by the Board of Trustees of the Internal Improvement Trust Fund of the State of Florida. Any fishery regulations in the Sanctuary shall not take effect in Florida State waters until established by the Florida Marine Fisheries Commission.
[62 FR 32161, June 12, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 38094, July 31, 2009; 75 FR 72659, Nov. 26, 2010; 88 FR 970, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.164
Additional activity regulations by Sanctuary area.
In addition to the prohibitions set forth in § 922.163, which apply throughout the Sanctuary, the following regulations apply with respect to activities conducted within the Sanctuary areas described in this section and in Appendix (II) through (VII) to this subpart. Activities located within two or more overlapping Sanctuary areas are concurrently subject to the regulations applicable to each overlapping area.
(a)
Areas to be avoided.
Operating a tank vessel or a vessel greater than 50 meters in registered length is prohibited in all areas to be avoided, except if such vessel is a public vessel and its operation is essential for national defense, law enforcement, or responses to emergencies that threaten life, property, or the environment. Appendix VII to this subpart sets forth the geographic coordinates of these areas.
(b)
Existing management areas
—(1)
Key Largo and Looe Key Management Areas.
The following activities are prohibited within the Key Largo and Looe Key Management Areas (also known as the Key Largo and Looe Key National Marine Sanctuaries) described in appendix II to this subpart:
(i) Removing, taking, damaging, harmfully disturbing, breaking, cutting, spearing or similarly injuring any coral or other marine invertebrate, or any plant, soil, rock, or other material, except commercial taking of spiny lobster and stone crab by trap and recreational taking of spiny lobster by hand or by hand gear which is consistent with these regulations and the applicable regulations implementing the applicable Fishery Management Plan.
(ii) Taking any tropical fish.
(iii) Fishing with wire fish traps, bottom trawls, dredges, fish sleds, or similar vessel-towed or anchored bottom fishing gear or nets.
(iv) Fishing with, carrying or possessing, except while passing through without interruption or for law enforcement purposes: pole spears, air rifles, bows and arrows, slings, Hawaiian slings, rubber powered arbaletes, pneumatic and spring-loaded guns or similar devices known as spearguns.
(2)
Great White Heron and Key West National Wildlife Refuge Management Areas.
Operating a personal watercraft, operating an airboat, or water skiing except within Township 66 South, Range 29 East, Sections 5, 11, 12 and 14; Township 66 South, Range 28 East, Section 2; Township 67 South, Range 26 East, Sections 16 and 20, all Tallahassee Meridian, are prohibited within the marine portions of the Great White Heron and Key West National Wildlife Refuge Management Areas described in appendix II to this subpart.
(c)
Wildlife management areas.
(1) Marine portions of the Wildlife Management Areas listed in appendix III to this subpart or portions thereof may be designated “idle speed only/no-wake,” “no-motor” or “no-access buffer” zones or “closed”. The Director, in cooperation with other Federal, State, or local resource management authorities, as appropriate, shall post signs conspicuously, using mounting posts, buoys, or other means according to location and purpose, at appropriate intervals and locations, clearly delineating an area as an “idle speed only/no wake”, a “no-motor”, or a “no-access buffer” zone or as “closed”, and allowing instant, long-range recognition by boaters. Such signs shall display the official logo of the Sanctuary.
(2) The following activities are prohibited within the marine portions of the Wildlife Management Areas listed in appendix III to this subpart:
(i) In those marine portions of any Wildlife Management Area designated an “idle speed only/no wake” zone in appendix III to this subpart, operating a vessel at a speed greater that idle speed only/no wake.
(ii) In those marine portions of any Wildlife Management Area designated a “no-motor” zone in appendix III to this subpart, using internal combustion motors or engines for any purposes. A vessel with an internal combustion motor or engine may access a “no-motor” zone only through the use of a push pole, paddle, sail, electric motor or similar means of propulsion.
(iii) In those marine portions of any Wildlife Management Area designated a “no-access buffer” zone in appendix III of this subpart, entering the area by vessel.
(iv) In those marine portions of any Wildlife Management Area designated as closed in appendix III of this subpart, entering or using the area.
(3) The Director shall coordinate with other Federal, State, or local resource management authorities, as appropriate, in the establishment and enforcement of access restrictions described in paragraph (c)(2) (i)-(iv) of this section in the marine portions of Wildlife Management Areas.
(4) The Director may modify the number and location of access restrictions described in paragraph (c)(2) (i)-(iv) of this section within the marine portions of a Wildlife Management Area if the Director finds that such action is reasonably necessary to minimize disturbances to Sanctuary wildlife, or to ensure protection and preservation of Sanctuary wildlife consistent with the purposes of the Sanctuary designation and other applicable law governing the protection and preservation of wildlife resources in the Sanctuary. The Director will effect such modification by:
(i) Publishing in the
Federal Register,
after notice and an opportunity for public comments in accordance, an amendment to the list of such areas set forth in appendix III to this subpart, and a notice regarding the time and place where maps depicting the precise locations of such restrictions will be made available for public inspection, and
(ii) Posting official signs delineating such restrictions in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Ecological Reserves, Sanctuary Preservation Areas, and Special Use (Research only) Areas.
(1) The following activities are prohibited within the Ecological Reserves described in appendix IV to this subpart, within the Sanctuary
Preservation Areas described in appendix V to this subpart, and within the Special Use (Research only Areas) described in appendix VI to this subpart:
(i) Discharging or depositing any material or other matter except cooling water or engine exhaust.
(ii) Possessing, moving, harvesting, removing, taking, damaging, disturbing, breaking, cutting, spearing, or otherwise injuring any coral, marine invertebrate, fish, bottom formation, algae, seagrass or other living or dead organism, including shells, or attempting any of these activities. However, fish, invertebrates, and marine plants may be possessed aboard a vessel in an Ecological Reserve or Sanctuary Preservation Area, provided such resources can be shown not to have been harvested within, removed from, or taken within, the Ecological Reserve or Sanctuary Preservation Area, as applicable, by being stowed in a cabin, locker, or similar storage area prior to entering and during transit through such reserves or areas, provided further that in an Ecological Reserve or Sanctuary Preservation Area located in Florida State waters, such vessel is in continuous transit through the Ecological Reserve or Sanctuary Preservation Area.
(iii) Except for catch and release fishing by trolling in the Conch Reef, Alligator Reef, Sombrero Reef, and Sand Key SPAs, fishing by any means. However, gear capable of harvesting fish may be aboard a vessel in an Ecological Reserve or Sanctuary Preservation Area, provided such gear is not available for immediate use when entering and during transit through such Ecological Reserve or Sanctuary Preservation Area, and no presumption of fishing activity shall be drawn therefrom.
(iv) Touching living or dead coral, including but not limited to, standing on a living or dead coral formation.
(v)
Anchoring in the Tortugas Ecological Reserve.
In all other Ecological Reserves and Sanctuary Preservation Areas, placing any anchor in a way that allows the anchor or any portion of the anchor apparatus (including the anchor, chain or rope) to touch living or dead coral, or any attached living organism. When anchoring dive boats, the first diver down must inspect the anchor to ensure that it is not touching living or dead coral, and will not shift in such a way as to touch such coral or other attached organism. No further diving shall take place until the anchor is placed in accordance with these requirements.
(vi) Except in the Tortugas Ecological Reserve where mooring buoys must be used, anchoring instead of mooring when a mooring buoy is available or anchoring in other than a designated anchoring area when such areas have been designated and are available.
(vii) Except for passage without interruption through the area, for law enforcement purposes, or for purposes of monitoring pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, violating a temporary access restriction imposed by the Director pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(viii) Except for passage without interruption through the area, for law enforcement purposes, or for purposes of monitoring pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section: entering the Tortugas South area of the Tortugas Ecological Reserve; or entering the Tortugas North area of the Tortugas Ecological Reserve without a valid access permit issued pursuant to § 922.167 or entering or leaving the Tortugas North area with a valid access permit issued pursuant to § 922.167 without notifying FKNMS staff at the Dry Tortugas National Park office by telephone or radio no less than 30 minutes and no more than 6 hours, before entering and upon leaving the Tortugas Ecological Reserve.
(ix) Tying a vessel greater than 100 feet (30.48 meters) LOA, or tying more than one vessel (other than vessels carried on board a vessel) if the combined lengths would exceed 100 feet (30.48 meters) LOA, to a mooring buoy or to a vessel tied to a mooring buoy in the Tortugas Ecological Reserve.
(2) The Director may temporarily restrict access to any portion of any Sanctuary Preservation Area or Ecological Reserve if the Director, on the basis of the best available data, information and studies, determines that a concentration of use appears to be causing or contributing to significant degradation of the living resources of
the area and that such action is reasonably necessary to allow for recovery of the living resources of such area. The Director will provide for continuous monitoring of the area during the pendency of the restriction. The Director will provide public notice of the restriction by publishing a notice in the
Federal Register,
and by such other means as the Director may deem appropriate. The Director may only restrict access to an area for a period of 60 days, with one additional 60 day renewal. The Director may restrict access to an area for a longer period pursuant to a notice and opportunity for public comment rulemaking under the Administrative Procedure Act. Such restriction will be kept to the minimum amount of area necessary to achieve the purposes thereof.
(e)
Special-use Areas.
(1) The Director may set aside discrete areas of the Sanctuary as Special-use Areas, and, by designation pursuant to this paragraph, impose the access and use restrictions specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Special-use Areas are described in appendix VI to this subpart, in accordance with the following designations and corresponding objectives:
(i) “Recovery area” to provide for the recovery of Sanctuary resources from degradation or other injury attributable to human uses;
(ii) “Restoration area” to provide for restoration of degraded or otherwise injured Sanctuary resources;
(iii) “Research-only area” to provide for scientific research or education relating to protection and management, through the issuance of a Sanctuary General permit for research pursuant to § 922.166 of these regulations; and
(iv) “Facilitated-use area” to provide for the prevention of use or user conflicts or the facilitation of access and use, or to promote public use and understanding, of Sanctuary resources through the issuance of special-use permits.
(2) A Special-use Area shall be no larger than the size the Director deems reasonably necessary to accomplish the applicable objective.
(3) Persons conducting activities within any Special-use Area shall comply with the access and use restrictions specified in this paragraph and made applicable to such area by means of its designation as a “recovery area,” “restoration area,” “research-only area,” or “facilitated-use area.” Except for passage without interruption through the area or for law enforcement purposes, no person may enter a Special-use Area except to conduct or cause to be conducted the following activities:
(i) In such area designated as a “recovery area” or a “restoration area”, habitat manipulation related to restoration of degraded or otherwise injured Sanctuary resources, or activities reasonably necessary to monitor recovery of degraded or otherwise injured Sanctuary resources;
(ii) In such area designated as a “research only area”, scientific research or educational use specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a valid National Marine Sanctuary General or Historical Resources permit, or
(iii) In such area designated as a “facilitated-use area”, activities specified by the Director or specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a valid Special-use permit.
(4)(i) The Director may modify the number of, location of, or designations applicable to, Special-use Areas by publishing in the
Federal Register,
after notice and an opportunity for public comment in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, an amendment to appendix VI to this subpart, except that, with respect to such areas designated as a “recovery area,” “restoration area,” or “research only area,” the Director may modify the number of, location of, or designation applicable to, such areas by publishing a notice of such action in the
Federal Register
if the Director determines that immediate action is reasonably necessary to:
(A) Prevent significant injury to Sanctuary resources where circumstances create an imminent risk to such resources;
(B) Initiate restoration activity where a delay in time would significantly impair the ability of such restoration activity to succeed;
(C) Initiate research activity where an unforeseen natural event produces an opportunity for scientific research that may be lost if research is not initiated immediately.
(ii) If the Director determines that a notice of modification must be promulgated immediately in accordance with paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, the Director will, as part of the same notice, invite public comment and specify that comments will be received for 15 days after the effective date of the notice. As soon as practicable after the end of the comment period, the Director will either rescind, modify or allow the modification to remain unchanged through notice in the
Federal Register.
(5) In addition to paragraph (e)(3) of this section no person shall conduct activities listed in paragraph (d) of this section in “Research-only Areas.”
(f) Additional Wildlife Management Areas, Ecological Reserves, Sanctuary Preservation Areas, or Special-use Areas, and additional restrictions in such areas, shall not take effect in Florida State waters unless first approved by the Board of Trustees of the Internal Improvement Trust Fund of the State of Florida.
(g)
Anchoring on Tortugas Bank.
Vessels 50 meters or greater in registered length, are prohibited from anchoring on the portion of Tortugas Bank within the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary west of the Dry Tortugas National Park that is outside of the Tortugas Ecological Reserve. The boundary of the area closed to anchoring by vessels 50 meters or greater in registered length is formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates (based on the North American Datum of 1983):
(1) 24 deg. 32.00′ N 83 deg. 00.05′ W
(2) 24 deg. 37.00′ N 83 deg. 06.00′ W
(3) 24 deg. 39.00′ N 83 deg. 06.00′ W
(4) 24 deg. 39.00′ N 83 deg. 00.05′ W
(5) 24 deg. 32.00′ N 83 deg. 00.05′ W
[62 FR 32161, June 12, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 43873, Aug. 17, 1998; 66 FR 4369, Jan. 17, 2001; 74 FR 38095, July 31, 2009]
§ 922.165
Emergency regulations.
Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality, or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any and all activities are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition. Emergency regulations shall not take effect in Florida territorial waters until approved by the Governor of the State of Florida. Any temporary regulation may be in effect for up to 60 days, with one 60-day extension. Additional or extended action will require notice and comment rulemaking under the Administrative Procedure Act, notice in local newspapers, notice to Mariners, and press releases.
§ 922.166
Permits other than for access to the Tortugas Ecological Reserve—application procedures and issuance criteria.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.163 or § 922.164 if the activity is specifically allowed by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(1) Applications for permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, 33 East Quay Road, Key West, FL 33040.
(2) For activities proposed to be conducted within any of the areas described in § 922.164 (b) through (e), the Director shall not issue a permit unless he or she further finds that such activities will further and are consistent with the purposes for which such area was established, as described in §§ 922.162 and 922.164 and in the management plan for the Sanctuary.
(3) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.163 or § 922.164, if such activity is specifically allowed by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part, and any additional permit issuance criteria and requirements in paragraphs (b), (c), (f), and (i) through (m) of this section.
(b)
National Marine Sanctuary Survey/Inventory of Historical Resources Permit.
(1) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by §§ 922.163 or 922.164 involving the survey/inventory of Sanctuary historical resources if such activity is specifically authorized by, and is conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of, a Survey/Inventory of Historical Resources permit issued under this paragraph (b). Such permit is not required if such survey/inventory activity does not involve any activity prohibited by §§ 922.163 or 922.164. Thus, survey/inventory activities that are non-intrusive, do not include any excavation, removal, or recovery of historical resources, and do not result in destruction of, loss of, or injury to Sanctuary resources or qualities do not require a permit. However, if a survey/inventory activity will involve test excavations or removal of artifacts or materials for evaluative purposes, a Survey/Inventory of Historical Resources permit is required. Regardless of whether a Survey/Inventory permit is required, a person may request such permit. Persons who have demonstrated their professional abilities under a Survey/Inventory permit will be given preference over other persons in consideration of the issuance of a Research/Recovery permit. While a Survey/Inventory permit does not grant any rights with regards to areas subject to pre-existing rights of access which are still valid, once a permit is issued for an area, other survey/inventory permits will not be issued for the same area during the period for which the permit is valid.
(2) The Director, at his or her discretion, may issue a Survey/Inventory permit under this paragraph (b), subject to such terms and conditions as he or she deems appropriate, if the Director finds that such activity:
(i) Satisfies the requirements for a permit issued under paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(ii) Either will be non-intrusive, not include any excavation, removal, or recovery of historical resources, and not result in destruction of, loss of, or injury to Sanctuary resources or qualities, or if intrusive, will involve no more than the minimum manual alteration of the seabed and/or the removal of artifacts or other material necessary for evaluative purposes and will cause no significant adverse impacts on Sanctuary resources or qualities; and
(iii) That such activity will be conducted in accordance with all requirements of the Programmatic Agreement for the Management of Submerged Cultural Resources in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary among NOAA, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, and the State of Florida (hereinafter SCR Agreement), and that such permit issuance is in accordance with such SCR Agreement. Copies of the SCR Agreement may also be examined at, and obtained from, the Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 1305 East-West Highway, 12th floor, Silver Spring, MD 20910; or from the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary Office, P.O. Box 500368, Marathon, FL 33050.
(c)
National Marine Sanctuary Research/Recovery of Sanctuary Historical Resources Permit.
(1) A person may conduct any activity prohibited by §§ 922.163 or 922.164 involving the research/recovery of Sanctuary historical resources if such activity is specifically authorized by, and is conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of, a Research/Recovery of Historical Resources permit issued under this paragraph (c).
(2) The Director, at his or her discretion, may issue a Research/Recovery of Historical Resources permit, under this paragraph (c), and subject to such terms and conditions as he or she deems appropriate, if the Director finds that:
(i) Such activity satisfies the requirements for a permit issued under paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(ii) The recovery of the resource is in the public interest as described in the SCR Agreement;
(iii) Recovery of the resource is part of research to preserve historic information for public use; and
(iv) Recovery of the resource is necessary or appropriate to protect the resource, preserve historical information, and/or further the policies and
purposes of the NMSA and the FKNMSPA, and that such permit issuance is in accordance with, and that the activity will be conducted in accordance with, all requirements of the SCR Agreement.
(d)
National Marine Sanctuary Special-use Permit.
(1) A person may conduct any commercial or concession-type activity prohibited by §§ 922.163 or 922.164, if such activity is specifically authorized by, and is conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of, a Special-use permit issued under this paragraph (d). A Special-use permit is required for the deaccession/transfer of Sanctuary historical resources.
(2) The Director, at his or her discretion, may issue a Special-use permit in accordance with this paragraph (d), and subject to such terms and conditions as he or she deems appropriate and the mandatory terms and conditions of section 310 of the NMSA, if the Director finds that issuance of such permit is reasonably necessary to: establish conditions of access to and use of any Sanctuary resource; or promote public use and understanding of any Sanctuary resources. No permit may be issued unless the activity is compatible with the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated and can be conducted in a manner that does not destroy, cause the loss of, or injure any Sanctuary resource, and if for the deaccession/transfer of Sanctuary Historical Resources, unless such permit issuance is in accordance with, and that the activity will be conducted in accordance with, all requirements of the SCR Agreement.
(3) The Director may assess and collect fees for the conduct of any activity authorized by a Special-use permit issued pursuant to this paragraph (d). No Special-use permit shall be effective until all assessed fees are paid, unless otherwise provided by the Director by a fee schedule set forth as a permit condition. In assessing a fee, the Director shall include:
(i) All costs incurred, or expected to be incurred, in reviewing and processing the permit application, including, but not limited to, costs for:
(A) Number of personnel;
(B) Personnel hours;
(C) Equipment;
(D) Biological assessments;
(E) Copying; and
(F) Overhead directly related to reviewing and processing the permit application;
(ii) All costs incurred, or expected to be incurred, as a direct result of the conduct of the activity for which the Special-use permit is being issued, including, but not limited to:
(A) The cost of monitoring the conduct both during the activity and after the activity is completed in order to assess the impacts to Sanctuary resources and qualities;
(B) The use of an official NOAA observer, including travel and expenses and personnel hours; and
(C) Overhead costs directly related to the permitted activity; and
(iii) An amount which represents the fair market value of the use of the Sanctuary resource and a reasonable return to the United States Government.
(4) Nothing in this paragraph (d) shall be considered to require a person to obtain a permit under this paragraph for the conduct of any fishing activities within the Sanctuary.
(e)
Applications.
(1) Applications for permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management; ATTN: Sanctuary Superintendent, Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, P.O. Box 500368, Marathon, FL 33050. All applications must include:
(i) A detailed description of the proposed activity including a timetable for completion of the activity and the equipment, personnel and methodology to be employed;
(ii) The qualifications and experience of all personnel;
(iii) The financial resources available to the applicant to conduct and complete the proposed activity;
(iv) A statement as to why it is necessary to conduct the activity within the Sanctuary;
(v) The potential impacts of the activity, if any, on Sanctuary resources and qualities;
(vi) The benefit to be derived from the activity; and
(vii) Such other information as the Director may request depending on the
type of activity. Copies of all other required licenses, permits, approvals, or other authorizations must be attached to the application.
(2) Upon receipt of an application, the Director may request such additional information from the applicant as he or she deems reasonably necessary to act on the application and may seek the views of any persons. The Director may require a site visit as part of the permit evaluation. Unless otherwise specified, the information requested must be received by the Director within 30 days of the postmark date of the request. Failure to provide such additional information on a timely basis may be deemed by the Director to constitute abandonment or withdrawal of the permit application.
(f) A permit may be issued for a period not exceeding five years. All permits will be reviewed annually to determine the permittee's compliance with permit scope, purpose, terms and conditions and progress toward reaching the stated goals and appropriate action taken under paragraph (g) of this section if warranted. A permittee may request permit renewal pursuant to the same procedures for applying for a new permit. Upon the permittee's request for renewal, the Director shall review all reports submitted by the permittee as required by the permit conditions. In order to renew the permit, the Director must find that the:
(1) Activity will continue to further the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated in accordance with the criteria applicable to the initial issuance of the permit;
(2) Permittee has at no time violated the permit, or these regulations; and
(3) The activity has not resulted in any unforeseen adverse impacts to Sanctuary resources or qualities.
(g) The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke a permit for good cause. The Director may deny a permit application, in whole or in part, if it is determined that the permittee or applicant has acted in violation of a previous permit, of these regulations, of the NMSA or FKNMSPA, or for other good cause. Any such action shall be communicated in writing to the permittee or applicant by certified mail and shall set forth the reason(s) for the action taken. Procedures governing permit sanctions and denials for enforcement reasons are set forth in Subpart D of 15 CFR part 904.
(h) The applicant for or holder of a National Marine Sanctuary permit may appeal the denial, conditioning, amendment, suspension or revocation of the permit in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 922.50.
(i) A permit issued pursuant to this section other than a Special-use permit is nontransferable. Special-use permits may be transferred, sold, or assigned with the written approval of the Director. The permittee shall provide the Director with written notice of any proposed transfer, sale, or assignment no less than 30 days prior to its proposed consummation. Transfers, sales, or assignments consummated in violation of this requirement shall be considered a material breach of the Special-use permit, and the permit shall be considered void as of the consummation of any such transfer, sale, or assignment.
(j) The permit or a copy thereof shall be maintained in legible condition on board all vessels or aircraft used in the conduct of the permitted activity and be displayed for inspection upon the request of any authorized officer.
(k) Any permit issued pursuant to this section shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1) All permitted activities shall be conducted in a manner that does not destroy, cause the loss of, or injure Sanctuary resources or qualities, except to the extent that such may be specifically authorized.
(2) The permittee agrees to hold the United States harmless against any claims arising out of the conduct of the permitted activities.
(3) All necessary Federal, State, and local permits from all agencies with jurisdiction over the proposed activities shall be secured before commencing field operations.
(l) In addition to the terms and conditions listed in paragraph (k) of this section, any permit authorizing the research/recovery of historical resources shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1) A professional archaeologist shall be in charge of planning, field recovery operations, and research analysis.
(2) An agreement with a conservation laboratory shall be in place before field recovery operations are begun, and an approved nautical conservator shall be in charge of planning, conducting, and supervising the conservation of any artifacts and other materials recovered.
(3) A curation agreement with a museum or facility for curation, public access and periodic public display, and maintenance of the recovered historical resources shall be in place before commencing field operations (such agreement for the curation and display of recovered historical resources may provide for the release of public artifacts for deaccession/transfer if such deaccession/transfer is consistent with preservation, research, education, or other purposes of the designation and management of the Sanctuary. Deaccession/transfer of historical resources requires a Special-use permit issued pursuant to paragraph (d) and such deaccession/transfer shall be executed in accordance with the requirements of the SCR Agreement).
(4) The site's archaeological information is fully documented, including measured drawings, site maps drawn to professional standards, and photographic records.
(m) In addition to the terms and conditions listed in paragraph (k) and (l) of this section, any permit issued pursuant to this section is subject to such other terms and conditions, including conditions governing access to, or use of, Sanctuary resources, as the Director deems reasonably necessary or appropriate and in furtherance of the purposes for which the Sanctuary is designated. Such terms and conditions may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Any data or information obtained under the permit shall be made available to the public.
(2) A NOAA official shall be allowed to observe any activity conducted under the permit.
(3) The permittee shall submit one or more reports on the status, progress, or results of any activity authorized by the permit.
(4) The permittee shall submit an annual report to the Director not later than December 31 of each year on activities conducted pursuant to the permit. The report shall describe all activities conducted under the permit and all revenues derived from such activities during the year and/or term of the permit.
(5) The permittee shall purchase and maintain general liability insurance or other acceptable security against potential claims for destruction, loss of, or injury to Sanctuary resources arising out of the permitted activities. The amount of insurance or security should be commensurate with an estimated value of the Sanctuary resources in the permitted area. A copy of the insurance policy or security instrument shall be submitted to the Director.
[62 FR 32161, June 12, 1997, as amended at 88 FR 970, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.167
Permits for access to the Tortugas Ecological Reserve.
(a) A person may enter the Tortugas North area of the Tortugas Ecological Reserve other than for passage without interruption through the reserve, for law enforcement purposes, or for purposes of monitoring pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of § 922.164 , if authorized by a valid access permit issued pursuant to § 922.167.
(b)(1) Access permits must be requested at least 72 hours but no longer than one month before the date the permit is desired to be effective. Access permits do not require written applications or the payment of any fee. Permits may be requested via telephone or radio by contacting FKNMS at any of the following numbers:
Key West office: telephone: (305) 292-0311
Marathon office: telephone: (305) 743-2437
(2) The following information must be provided, as applicable:
(i) Vessel name.
(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of owner and operator.
(iii) Name, address, and telephone number of applicant.
(iv) USCG documentation, state license, or registration number.
(v) Home port.
(vi) Length of vessel and propulsion type (
i.e.,
motor or sail).
(vii) Number of divers.
(viii) Requested effective date and duration of permit (2 weeks, maximum).
(c) The Sanctuary Superintendent will issue a permit to the owner or to the owner's representative for the vessel when all applicable information has been provided. The Sanctuary Superintendent will provide a permit number to the applicant and confirm the effective date and duration period of the permit. Written confirmation of permit issuance will be provided upon request.
[66 FR 4370, Jan. 17, 2001]
§ 922.168
[Reserved]
Pt. 922, Subpt. P, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart P of Part 922—Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Coordinates

# (Appendix Based on North American Datum of 1983)
(1) The boundary of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary—
(a) Begins at the northeasternmost point of Biscayne National Park located at approximately 25 degrees 39 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 05 minutes west longitude, then runs eastward to the point at 25 degrees 39 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 04 minutes west longitude; and
(b) Then runs southward and connects in succession the points at the following coordinates:
(i) 25 degrees 34 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 04 minutes west longitude,
(ii) 25 degrees 28 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 05 minutes west longitude, and
(iii) 25 degrees 21 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 07 minutes west longitude;
(iv) 25 degrees 16 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 08 minutes west longitude;
(c) Then runs southwesterly approximating the 300-foot isobath and connects in succession the points at the following coordinates:
(i) 25 degrees 07 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 13 minutes west longitude,
(ii) 24 degrees 57 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 21 minutes west longitude,
(iii) 24 degrees 39 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 52 minutes west longitude,
(iv) 24 degrees 30 minutes north latitude, 81 degrees 23 minutes west longitude,
(v) 24 degrees 25 minutes north latitude, 81 degrees 50 minutes west longitude,
(vi) 24 degrees 22 minutes north latitude, 82 degrees 48 minutes west longitude,
(vii) 24 degrees 37 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 06 minutes west longitude,
(viii) 24 degrees 46 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 06 minutes west longitude,
(ix) 24 degrees 46 minutes north latitude, 82 degrees 54 minutes west longitude,
(x) 24 degrees 44 minutes north latitude, 81 degrees 55 minutes west longitude,
(xi) 24 degrees 51 minutes north latitude, 81 degrees 26 minutes west longitude, and
(xii) 24 degrees 55 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 56 minutes west longitude;
(d) Then follows the boundary of Everglades National Park in a southerly then northeasterly direction through Florida Bay, Buttonwood Sound, Tarpon Basin, and Blackwater Sound;
(e) After Division Point, then departs from the boundary of Everglades National Park and follows the western shoreline of Manatee Bay, Barnes Sound, and Card Sound;
(f) then follows the southern boundary of Biscayne National Park to the southeasternmost point of Biscayne National Park; and
(g) then follows the eastern boundary of Biscayne National Park to the beginning point specified in paragraph (a).
(2) The shoreward boundary of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary is the mean high-water mark except around the Dry Tortugas where the boundary is coterminous with that of the Dry Tortugas National Park, formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates:
(a) 24 degrees 34 minutes 0 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 54 minutes 0 seconds west longitude;
(b) 24 degrees 34 minutes 0 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 58 minutes 0 second west longitude;
(c) 24 degrees 39 minutes 0 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 58 minutes 0 seconds west longitude;
(d) 24 degrees 43 minutes 0 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 54 minutes 0 seconds west longitude;
(e) 24 degrees 43 minutes 32 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 52 minutes 0 seconds west longitude;
(f) 24 degrees 43 minutes 32 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 48 minutes 0 seconds west longitude;
(g) 24 degrees 42 minutes 0 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 46 minutes, 0 seconds west longitude;
(h) 24 degrees 40 minutes 0 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 46 minutes 0 seconds west longitude;
(i) 24 degrees 37 minutes 0 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 48 minutes 0 seconds west longitude; and
(j) 24 degrees 34 minutes 0 seconds north latitude, 82 degrees 54 minutes 0 seconds west longitude.
(3) The Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary also includes the area located within the boundary formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates:
(a) 24 degrees 33 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 09 minutes west longitude,
(b) 24 degrees 33 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 05 minutes west longitude, and
(c) 24 degrees 18 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 05 minutes west longitude;
(d) 24 degrees 18 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 09 minutes west longitude; and
(e) 24 degrees 33 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 09 minutes west longitude.
[66 FR 4370, Jan. 17, 2001]
Pt. 922, Subpt. P, App. II

# Appendix II to Subpart P of Part 922—Existing Management Areas Boundary Coordinates
(1) The boundary of each of the Existing Management Areas is formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates:

# National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Key Largo-Management Area
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
25 deg.19′45″ N
80 deg.12′00″ W.
2
25 deg.16′02″ N
80 deg.08′07″ W.
3
25 deg.07′05″ N
80 deg.12′05″ W.
4
24 deg.58′03″ N
80 deg.19′08″ W.
5
25 deg.02′02″ N
80 deg.25′25″ W.
6
25 deg.19′45″ N
80 deg.12′00″ W.
Looe Key Management Area
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.31′62″ N
81 deg.26′00″ W.
2
24 deg.33′57″ N
81 deg.26′00″ W.
3
24 deg.34′15″ N
81 deg.23′00″ W.
4
24 deg.32′20″ N
81 deg.23′00″ W.
5
24 deg.31′62″ N
81 deg.26′00″ W.

# United States Fish and Wildlife Service
Great White Heron National Wildlife Refuge
[Based on the North American Datum of 1983]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.48.6′ W.
2
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.37.2′ W.
3
24 deg.49.2′ N
81 deg.37.2′ W.
4
24 deg.49.2′ N
81 deg.19.8′ W.
5
24 deg.48.0′ N
81 deg.19.8′ W.
6
24 deg.48.0′ N
81 deg.14.4′ W.
7
24 deg.49.2′ N
81 deg.14.4′ W.
8
24 deg.49.2′ N
81 deg.08.4′ W.
9
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.08.4′ W.
10
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.14.4′ W.
11
24 deg.43.2′ N
81 deg.14.4′ W.
12
24 deg.43.2′ N
81 deg.16.2′ W.
13
24 deg.42.6′ N
81 deg.16.2′ W.
14
24 deg.42.6′ N
81 deg.21.0′ W.
15
24 deg.41.4′ N
81 deg.21.0′ W.
16
24 deg.41.4′ N
81 deg.22.2′ W.
17
24 deg.43.2′ N
81 deg.22.2′ W.
18
24 deg.43.2′ N
81 deg.22.8′ W.
19
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.22.8′ W.
20
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.24.0′ W.
21
24 deg.43.2′ N
81 deg.24.0′ W.
22
24 deg.43.2′ N
81 deg.26.4′ W.
23
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.26.4′ W.
24
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.27.0′ W.
25
24 deg.43.2′ N
81 deg.27.0′ W.
26
24 deg.43.2′ N
81 deg.29.4′ W.
27
24 deg.42.6′ N
81 deg.29.4′ W.
28
24 deg.42.6′ N
81 deg.30.6′ W.
29
24 deg.41.4′ N
81 deg.30.6′ W.
30
24 deg.41.4′ N
81 deg.31.2′ W.
31
24 deg.40.8′ N
81 deg.31.2′ W.
32
24 deg.40.8′ N
81 deg.32.4′ W.
33
24 deg.41.4′ N
81 deg.32.4′ W.
34
24 deg.41.4′ N
81 deg.34.2′ W.
35
24 deg.40.8′ N
81 deg.34.2′ W.
36
24 deg.48.0′ N
81 deg.35.4′ W.
37
24 deg.39.6′ N
81 deg.35.4′ W.
38
24 deg.39.6′ N
81 deg.36.0′ W.
39
24 deg.39.0′ N
81 deg.36.0′ W.
40
24 deg.39.0′ N
81 deg.37.2′ W.
41
24 deg.37.8′ N
81 deg.37.2′ W.
42
24 deg.37.8′ N
81 deg.37.8′ W.
43
24 deg.37.2′ N
81 deg.37.8′ W.
44
24 deg.37.2′ N
81 deg.40.2′ W.
45
24 deg.36.0′ N
81 deg.40.2′ W.
46
24 deg.36.0′ N
81 deg.40.8′ W.
47
24 deg.35.4′ N
81 deg.40.8′ W.
48
24 deg.35.4′ N
81 deg.42.0′ W.
49
24 deg.36.0′ N
81 deg.42.0′ W.
50
24 deg.36.0′ N
81 deg.48.6′ W.
51
24 deg.43.8′ N
81 deg.48.6′ W.
Key West National Wildlife Refuge
[Based on the North American Datum of 1983]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.40.0′ N
81 deg.49.0′ W.
2
24 deg.40.0′ N
82 deg.10.0′ W.
3
24 deg.27.0′ N
82 deg.10.0′ W.
4
24 deg.27.0′ N
81 deg.49.0′ W.
5
24 deg.40.0′ N
81 deg.49.0′ W.
(2) When differential Global Positioning Systems data becomes available, these coordinates may be publication in the
Federal Register
to reflect the increased accuracy of such data.
[66 FR 4371, Jan. 17, 2001]
Pt. 922, Subpt. P, App. III

# Appendix III to Subpart P of Part 922—Wildlife Management Areas Access Restrictions
Area
Access restrictions
Bay Keys
No-motor zone (300 feet) around one key; idle speed only/no-wake zones in tidal creeks.
Boca Grande Key
South one-half of beach closed (beach above mean high water closed by Department of the Interior).
Woman Key
One-half of beach and sand spit on southeast side closed (beach and sand spit above mean high water closed by Department of the Interior).
Cayo Agua Keys
Idle speed only/no-wake zones in all navigable tidal creeks.
Cotton Key
No-motor zone on tidal flat.
Snake Creek
No-motor zone on tidal flat.
Cottrell Key
No-motor zone (300 feet) around entire key.
Little Mullet Key
No-access buffer zone (300 feet) around entire key.
Big Mullet Key
No-motor zone (300 feet) around entire key.
Crocodile Lake
No-access buffer zone (100 feet) along shoreline between March 1 and October 1.
East Harbor Key
No-access buffer zone (300 feet) around northernmost island.
Lower Harbor Keys
Idle speed only/no-wake zones in selected tidal creeks.
Eastern Lake Surprise
Idle speed only/no-wake zone east of highway U.S. 1.
Horseshoe Key
No-access buffer zone (300 feet) around main island (main island closed by Department of the Interior).
Marquesas Keys
(i) No-motor zones (300 feet) around three smallest keys on western side of chain; (ii) no-access buffer zone (300 feet) around one island at western side of chain; (iii) idle speed only/no-wake zone in southwest tidal creek.
Tidal flat south of Marvin Key
No-access buffer zone on tidal flat.
Mud Keys
(i) Idle speed only/no-wake zones in the two main tidal creeks; (ii) two smaller creeks on west side closed.
Pelican Shoal
No-access buffer zone out to 50 meters from shore between April 1 and August 31 (shoal closed by the Florida Game and Freshwater Fish Commission).
Rodriguez Key
No-motor zone on tidal flats.
Dove Key
No-motor zone on tidal flats; area around the two small islands closed.
Tavernier Key
No-motor zone on tidal flats.
Sawyer Keys
Tidal creeks on south side closed.
Snipe Keys
(i) Idle speed only/no-wake zone in main tidal creek; (ii) no-motor zone in all other tidal creeks.
Upper Harbor Key
No-access buffer zone (300 feet) around entire key.
East Content Keys
Idle speed only/no-wake zones in tidal creeks between southwesternmost keys.
West Content Keys
Idle speed only/no-wake zones in selected tidal creeks; no-access buffer zone in one cove.
Little Crane Key
No-access buffer zone (300 feet) around entire key.
Pt. 922, Subpt. P, App. IV

# Appendix IV to Subpart P of Part 922—Ecological Reserves Boundary

# Coordinates
(1) The boundary of the Western Sambo Ecological Reserve is formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates:
Western Sambo
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.33.70′ N
81 deg.40.80′ W.
2
24 deg.28.85′ N
81 deg.41.90′ W.
3
24 deg.28.50′ N
81 deg.43.70′ W.
4
24 deg.33.50′ N
81 deg.43.10′ W.
5
24 deg.33.70′ N
81 deg.40.80′ W.
(2) The Tortugas Ecological Reserve consists of two discrete areas, Tortugas North and Tortugas South.
(3) The boundary of Tortugas North is formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates:
Tortugas North
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.46.00′ N
83 deg.06.00′ W.
2
24 deg.46.00′ N
82 deg.54.00′ W.
3
24 deg.45.80′ N
82 deg.48.00′ W.
4
24 deg.43.53′ N
82 deg.48.00′ W.
5
24 deg.43.53′ N
82 deg.52.00′ W.
6
24 deg.43.00′ N
82 deg.54.00′ W.
7
24 deg.39.00′ N
82 deg.58.00′ W.
8
24 deg.39.00′ N
83 deg.06.00′ W.
9
24 deg.46.00′ N
83 deg.06.00′ W.
(4) The boundary of Tortugas South is formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates:
Tortugas South
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.33.00′ N
83 deg.09.00′ W.
2
24 deg.33.00′ N
83 deg.05.00′ W.
3
24 deg.18.00′ N
83 deg.05.00′ W.
4
24 deg.18.00′ N
83 deg.09.00′ W.
5
24 deg.33.00′ N
83 deg.09.00′ W.
[66 FR 4372, Jan. 17, 2001]
Pt. 922, Subpt. P, App. V

# Appendix V to Subpart P of Part 922—Sanctuary Preservation Areas Boundary Coordinates
The boundary of each of the Sanctuary Preservation Areas (SPAs) is formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates:
Alligator Reef
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitute
Longitude
1
24 deg.50.98′ N
80 deg.36.84′ W.
2
24 deg.50.51′ N
80 deg.37.35′ W.
3
24 deg.50.81′ N
80 deg.37.63′ W.
4
24 deg.51.23′ N
80 deg.37.17′ W.
5
24 deg.50.98′ N
80 deg.36.84′ W.
Catch and release fishing by trolling only is allowed in this SPA.
Carysfort/South Carysfort Reef
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
25 deg.13.78′ N
80 deg.12.00′ W.
2
25 deg.12.03′ N
80 deg.12.98′ W.
3
25 deg.12.24′ N
80 deg.13.77′ W.
4
25 deg.14.13′ N
80 deg.12.78′ W.
5
25 deg.13.78′ N
80 deg.12.00′ W.
Cheeca Rocks
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.54.42′ N
80 deg.36.91′ W.
2
24 deg.54.25′ N
80 deg.36.77′ W.
3
24 deg.54.10′ N
80 deg.37.00′ W.
4
24 deg.54.22′ N
80 deg.37.15′ W.
5
24 deg.54.42′ N
80 deg.36.91′ W.
Coffins Patch
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.41.47′ N
80 deg.57.68′ W.
2
24 deg.41.12′ N
80 deg.57.53′ W.
3
24 deg.40.75′ N
80 deg.58.33′ W.
4
24 deg.41.06′ N
80 deg.58.48′ W.
5
24 deg.41.47′ N
80 deg.57.68′ W.
Conch Reef
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.57.48′ N
80 deg.27.47′ W.
2
24 deg.57.34′ N
80 deg.27.26′ W.
3
24 deg.56.78′ N
80 deg.27.52′ W.
4
24 deg.56.96′ N
80 deg.27.73′ W.
5
24 deg.57.48′ N
80 deg.27.47′ W.
Catch and release fishing by trolling only is allowed in this SPA.
Davis Reef
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.55.61′ N
80 deg.30.27′ W.
2
24 deg.55.41′ N
80 deg.30.05′ W.
3
24 deg.55.11′ N
80 deg.30.35′ W.
4
24 deg.55.34′ N
80 deg.30.52′ W.
5
24 deg.55.61′ N
80 deg.30.27′ W.
Dry Rocks
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
25 deg.07.59′ N
80 deg.17.91′ W.
2
25 deg.07.41′ N
80 deg.17.70′ W.
3
25 deg.07.25′ N
80 deg.17.82′ W.
4
25 deg.07.41′ N
80 deg.18.09′ W.
5
25 deg.07.59′ N
80 deg.17.91′ W.
Grecian Rocks
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
25 deg.06.91′ N
80 deg.18.20′ W.
2
25 deg.06.67′ N
80 deg.18.06′ W.
3
25 deg.06.39′ N
80 deg.18.32′ W.
4
25 deg.06.42′ N
80 deg.18.48′ W.
5
25 deg.06.81′ N
80 deg.18.44′ W.
6
25 deg.06.91′ N
80 deg.18.20′ W.
Eastern Dry Rocks
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.27.92′ N
81 deg.50.55′ W.
2
24 deg.27.73′ N
81 deg.50.33′ W.
3
24 deg.27.47′ N
81 deg.50.80′ W.
4
24 deg.27.72′ N
81 deg.50.86′ W.
5
24 deg.27.92′ N
81 deg.50.55′ W.
The Elbow
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
25 deg.08.97′ N
80 deg.15.63′ W.
2
25 deg.08.95′ N
80 deg.15.22′ W.
3
25 deg.08.18′ N
80 deg.15.64′ W.
4
25 deg.08.50′ N
80 deg.16.07′ W.
5
25 deg.08.97′ N
80 deg.15.63′ W.
French Reef
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
25 deg.02.20′ N
80 deg.20.63′ W.
2
25 deg.01.81′ N
80 deg.21.02′ W.
3
25 deg.02.36′ N
80 deg.21.27′ W.
4
25 deg.02.20′ N
80 deg.20.63′ W.
Hen and Chickens
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.56.38′ N
80 deg.32.86′ W.
2
24 deg.56.21′ N
80 deg.32.63′ W.
3
24 deg.55.86′ N
80 deg.32.95′ W.
4
24 deg.56.04′ N
80 deg.33.19′ W.
5
24 deg.56.38′ N
80 deg.32.86′ W.
Looe Key
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.33.24′ N
81 deg.24.03′ W.
2
24 deg.32.70′ N
81 deg.23.85′ W.
3
24 deg.32.52′ N
81 deg.24.70′ W.
4
24 deg.33.12′ N
81 deg.24.81′ W.
5
24 deg.33.24′ N
81 deg.24.03′ W.
Molasses Reef
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
25 deg.01.00′ N
80 deg.22.53′ W.
2
25 deg.01.06′ N
80 deg.21.84′ W.
3
25 deg.00.29′ N
80 deg.22.70′ W.
4
25 deg.00.72′ N
80 deg.22.83′ W.
5
25 deg.01.00′ N
80 deg.22.53′ W.
Newfound Harbor Key
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.37.10′ N
81 deg.23.34′ W.
2
24 deg.36.85′ N
81 deg.23.28′ W.
3
24 deg.36.74′ N
81 deg.23.80′ W.
4
24 deg.37.00′ N
81 deg.23.86′ W.
5
24 deg.37.10′ N
81 deg.23.34′ W.
Rock Key
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.27.48′ N
81 deg.51.35′ W.
2
24 deg.27.30′ N
81 deg.51.15′ W.
3
24 deg.27.21′ N
81 deg.51.60′ W.
4
24 deg.27.45′ N
81 deg.51.65′ W.
5
24 deg.27.48′ N
81 deg.51.35′ W.
Sand Key
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.27.58′ N
81 deg.52.29′ W.
2
24 deg.27.01′ N
81 deg.52.32′ W.
3
24 deg.27.02′ N
81 deg.52.95′ W.
4
24 deg.27.61′ N
81 deg.52.94′ W.
5
24 deg.27.58′ N
81 deg.52.29′ W.
Catch and release fishing by trolling only is allowed in this SPA.
Sombrero Key
[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.37.91′ N
81 deg.06.78′ W.
2
24 deg.37.50′ N
81 deg.06.19′ W.
3
24 deg.37.25′ N
81 deg.06.89′ W.
4
24 deg.37.91′ N
81 deg.06.78′ W.
Catch and release fishing by trolling only is allowed in this SPA.
[66 FR 4373, Jan. 17, 2001]
Pt. 922, Subpt. P, App. VI

# Appendix VI to Subpart P of Part 922—Special-Use Areas Boundary Coordinates and Use Designations
The boundary of each of the Special-Use is formed by connecting in succession the points at the following coordinates:
Conch Reef
(Research Only)—[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.56.83′ N
80 deg.27.26′ W.
2
24 deg.57.10′ N
80 deg.26.93′ W.
3
24 deg.56.99′ N
80 deg.27.42′ W.
4
24 deg.57.34′ N
80 deg.27.26′ W.
5
24 deg.56.83′ N
80 deg.27.26′ W.
Eastern Sambo
(Research Only)—[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.29.84′ N
81 deg.39.59′ W.
2
24 deg.29.55′ N
81 deg.39.35′ W.
3
24 deg.29.37′ N
81 deg.39.96′ W.
4
24 deg.29.77′ N
81 deg.40.03′ W.
5
24 deg.29.84′ N
81 deg.39.59′ W.
Looe Key
(Research Only)—[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.34.17′ N
81 deg.23.01′ W.
2
24 deg.33.98′ N
81 deg.22.96′ W.
3
24 deg.33.84′ N
81 deg.23.60′ W.
4
24 deg.34.23′ N
81 deg.23.68′ W.
5
24 deg.34.17′ N
81 deg.23.01′ W.
Tennessee Reef
(Research Only)—[Based on differential Global Positioning Systems data]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
24 deg.44.77′ N
80 deg.47.12′ W.
2
24 deg.44.57′ N
80 deg.46.98′ W.
3
24 deg.44.68′ N
80 deg.46.59′ W.
4
24 deg.44.95′ N
80 deg.46.74′ W.
5
24 deg.44.77′ N
80 deg.47.12′ W.
[66 FR 4376, Jan. 17, 2001]
Pt. 922, Subpt. P, App. VII

# Appendix VII to Subpart P of Part 922—Areas To Be Avoided Boundary Coordinates
In The Vicinity of the Florida Keys
[Reference Charts: United States 11466, 27th Edition—September 1, 1990 and United States 11450, 4th Edition—August 11, 1990]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
1
25°45.00′ N
80°06.10′ W
2
25°38.70′ N
80°02.70′ W
3
25°22.00′ N
80°03.00′ W
4
25°06.38′ N
80°10.48′ W
5
24°56.37′ N
80°19.26′ W
6
24°37.90′ N
80°47.30′ W
7
24°29.20′ N
81°17.30′ W
8
24°22.30′ N
81°43.17′ W
9
24°28.00′ N
81°43.17′ W
10
24°28.70′ N
81°43.50′ W
11
24°29.80′ N
81°43.17′ W
12
24°33.10′ N
81°35.15′ W
13
24°33.60′ N
81°26.00′ W
14
24°38.20′ N
81°07.00′ W
15
24°43.20′ N
80°53.20′ W
16
24°46.10′ N
80°46.15′ W
17
24°51.10′ N
80°37.10′ W
18
24°57.50′ N
80°27.50′ W
19
25°09.90′ N
80°16.20′ W
20
25°24.00′ N
80°09.10′ W
21
25°31.50′ N
80°07.00′ W
22
25°39.70′ N
80°06.85′ W
23
25°45.00′ N
80°06.10′ W
In the Vicinity of Key West Harbor
[Reference Chart: United States 11434, 21st Edition—August 11, 1990]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
24
24 deg.27.95' N
81 deg.48.65' W.
25
24 deg.23.00' N
81 deg.53.50' W.
26
24 deg.26.60' N
81 deg.58.50' W.
27
24 deg.27.75' N
81 deg.55.70' W.
28
24 deg.29.35' N
81 deg.53.40' W.
29
24 deg.29.35' N
81 deg.50.00' W.
30
24 deg.27.95' N
81 deg.48.65' W.
Area Surrounding the Marquesas Keys
[Reference Chart: United States 11434, 21st Edition—August 11, 1990]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
31
24 deg.26.60' N
81 deg.59.55' W.
32
24 deg.23.00' N
82 deg.03.50' W.
33
24 deg.23.60' N
82 deg.27.80' W.
34
24 deg.34.50' N
82 deg.37.50' W.
35
24 deg.43.00' N
82 deg.26.50' W.
36
24 deg.38.31' N
81 deg.54.06' W.
37
24 deg.37.91' N
81 deg.53.40' W.
38
24 deg.36.15' N
81 deg.51.78' W.
39
24 deg.34.40' N
81 deg.50.60' W.
40
24 deg.33.44' N
81 deg.49.73' W.
41
24 deg.31.20' N
81 deg.52.10' W.
42
24 deg.28.70' N
81 deg.56.80' W.
43
24 deg.26.60' N
81 deg.59.55' W.
Area Surrounding the Dry Tortugas Islands
[Reference Chart: United States 11434, 21st Edition—August 11, 1990]
Point
Latitude
Longitude
44
24 deg.32.00' N
82 deg.53.50' W.
45
24 deg.32.00' N
83 deg.00.05' W.
46
24 deg.39.70' N
83 deg.00.05' W.
47
24 deg.45.60' N
82 deg.54.40' W.
48
24 deg.45.60' N
82 deg.47.02' W.
49
24 deg.42.80' N
82 deg.43.90' W.
50
24 deg.39.50' N
82 deg.43.90' W.
51
24 deg.35.60' N
82 deg.46.40' W.
52
24 deg.32.00' N
82 deg.53.50' W.
[66 FR 4377, Jan. 17, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 34534, June 29, 2001]

# Subpart Q—Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
and subtitle C, title II, Pub. L. 102-587, 106 Stat. 5055.

# Source:
64 FR 66570, Nov. 29, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.180
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of the regulations in this subpart is to implement the designation of the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary by regulating activities affecting the resources of the Sanctuary or any of the qualities, values, or purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated, in order to protect, preserve, and manage the conservation, ecological, recreational, research, educational, historical, cultural, and aesthetic resources and qualities of the area. The regulations are intended to supplement and complement existing regulatory authorities; to facilitate to the extent compatible with the primary objective of protecting the humpback whale and its habitat, all public
and private uses of the Sanctuary, including uses of Hawaiian natives customarily and traditionally exercised for subsistence, cultural, and religious purposes, as well as education, research, recreation, commercial and military activities; to reduce conflicts between compatible uses; to maintain, restore, and enhance the humpback whale and its habitat; to contribute to the maintenance of natural assemblages of humpback whales for future generations; to provide a place for humpback whales that are dependent on their Hawaiian Islands wintering habitat for reproductive activities, including breeding, calving, and nursing, and for the long-term survival of their species; and to achieve the other purposes and policies of the HINMSA and NMSA.
(b) These regulations may be modified to fulfill the Secretary's responsibilities for the Sanctuary, including the provision of additional protections for humpback whales and their habitat, if reasonably necessary, and the conservation and management of other marine resources, qualities and ecosystems of the Sanctuary determined to be of national significance. The Secretary shall consult with the Governor of the State of Hawaii on any modification to the regulations contained in this part. For any modification of the regulations contained in this part that would constitute a change in a term of the designation, as contained in the Designation Document for the Sanctuary, the Secretary shall follow the applicable requirements of sections 303 and 304 of the NMSA, and sections 2305 and 2306 of the HINMSA.
(c) Section 304(e) of the NMSA requires the Secretary to review management plans and regulations every five years, and make necessary revisions. Upon completion of the five year review of the Sanctuary management plan and regulations, the Secretary will repropose the Sanctuary management plan and regulations in their entirety with any proposed changes thereto. The Governor of the State of Hawaii will have the opportunity to review the re-proposed management plan and regulations before they take effect and if the Governor certifies any term or terms of such management plan or regulations as unacceptable, the unacceptable term or terms will not take effect in State waters of the Sanctuary.
§ 922.181
Boundary.
(a) Except for excluded areas described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary encompasses approximately 1,032 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (1,366 sq. mi.), and consists of the submerged lands and waters off the coast of the Hawaiian Islands seaward from the shoreline, cutting across the mouths of rivers and streams:
(1) To the 100-fathom (183 meter) isobath from Kailiu Point eastward to Mokolea Point, Kauai;
(2) To the 100-fathom (183 meter) isobath from Puaena Point eastward to Mahie Point, and from the Kapahulu Groin in Waikiki eastward to Makapuu Point, Oahu;
(3) To the 100-fathom (183 meter) isobath from Cape Halawa, Molokai, south and westward to Ilio Point, Molokai; southwestward to include Penguin Banks; eastward along the east side of Lanai; to the waters seaward of the three nautical mile limit north of Kahoolawe, to the Hanamanoia Lighthouse on Maui, and northward along the shoreline to Lipoa Point, Maui;
(4) To the deep water area of Pailolo Channel from Cape Halawa, Molokai, to Lipoa Point, Maui, and southward;
(5) To the 100-fathom (183 meter) isobath from Upolu Point southward to Keahole Point, Hawaii.
(b) Excluded from the Sanctuary boundary are the following commercial ports and small boat harbors:

# Hawaii (Big Island)
Kawaihae Boat Harbor
Small Boat Basin

# Lanai
Kaumalapau Harbor, Manele Harbor

# Maui
Lahaina Boat Harbor
Maalaea Boat Harbor

# Molokai
Hale o Lono Harbor
Kaunakakai Harbor

# Oahu
Kuapa Pond (Hawaii Kai)
(c) The coordinates of the lateral extents of each boundary area within the Sanctuary boundary appear in appendix A of this subpart Q.
[64 FR 66570, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 88 FR 970, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.182
Definitions.
(a)
Acts
means the Hawaiian Islands National Marine Sanctuary Act (HINMSA; sections 2301-2307 of Pub. L. 102-587), and the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA; also known as Title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act (MPRSA), as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
).
Adverse impact
means an impact that independently or cumulatively damages, diminishes, degrades, impairs, destroys, or otherwise harms.
Alteration of the seabed
means drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering a natural physical characteristic of the seabed of the Sanctuary; or constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on the seabed of the Sanctuary.
Habitat
means those areas that provide space for individual and population growth and normal behavior of humpback whales, and include sites used for reproductive activities, including breeding, calving and nursing.
Military activities
means those military activities conducted by or under the auspices of the Department of Defense and any combined military activities carried out by the Department of Defense and the military forces of a foreign nation.
Sanctuary
means the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary.
Sanctuary resource
means any humpback whale, or the humpback whale's habitat within the Sanctuary.
Shoreline
means the upper reaches of the wash of the waves, other than storm or seismic waves, at high tide during the season of the year in which the highest wash of the waves occurs, usually evidenced by the edge of vegetation growth, or the upper limit of debris left by the wash of the waves.
Take or taking a humpback whale
means to harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, collect or injure a humpback whale, or to attempt to engage in any such conduct. The term includes, but is not limited to, any of the following activities: collecting any dead or injured humpback whale, or any part thereof; restraining or detaining any humpback whale, or any part thereof, no matter how temporarily; tagging any humpback whale; operating a vessel or aircraft or doing any other act that results in the disturbing or molesting of any humpback whale.
(b) Other terms appearing in the regulations in this subpart are defined at 15 CFR 922.11, and/or in the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.,
and 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
[64 FR 66570, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 88 FR 970, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.183
Allowed activities.
(a) All activities except those prohibited by § 922.184 may be undertaken in the Sanctuary subject to any emergency regulations promulgated pursuant to § 922.185, subject to the interagency cooperation provisions of section 304(d) of the NMSA [16 U.S.C. 1434(d)] and § 922.187 of this subpart, and subject to the liability established by section 312 of the NMSA and § 922.46 of this part. All activities are also subject to all prohibitions, restrictions, and conditions validly imposed by any other Federal, State, or county authority of competent jurisdiction.
(b) Included as activities allowed under the first sentence of paragraph (a) of this § 922.183 are all classes of military activities, internal or external to the Sanctuary, that are being or have been conducted before the effective date of these regulations, as identified in the Final Environmental Impact Statement/Management Plan. Paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of § 922.184 do not apply to these classes of activities, nor are these activities subject to further consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA.
(c) Military activities proposed after the effective date of these regulations are also included as allowed activities under the first sentence of paragraph (a) of this § 922.183. Paragraphs (a)(1)
through (a)(5) of § 922.184 apply to these classes of activities unless—
(1) They are not subject to consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA and § 922.187 of this subpart, or
(2) Upon consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA and § 922.187 of this subpart, NOAA's findings and recommendations include a statement that paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of § 922.184 do not apply to the military activity.
(d) If a military activity described in paragraphs (b) or (c)(2) of this § 922.183 is modified such that it is likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure a Sanctuary resource in a manner significantly greater than was considered in a previous consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA and § 922.187 of this subpart, or if the modified activity is likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure any Sanctuary resource not considered in a previous consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA and § 922.187 of this subpart, the modified activity will be treated as a new military activity under paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) If a proposed military activity subject to section 304(d) of the NMSA and § 922.187 of this subpart is necessary to respond to an emergency situation and the Secretary of Defense determines in writing that failure to undertake the proposed activity during the period of consultation would impair the national defense, the Secretary of the military department concerned may request the Director that the activity proceed during consultation. If the Director denies such a request, the Secretary of the military department concerned may decide to proceed with the activity. In such case, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall provide the Director with a written statement describing the effects of the activity on Sanctuary resources once the activity is completed.
§ 922.184
Prohibited activities.
(a) The following activities are prohibited and thus unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted.
(1) Approaching, or causing a vessel or other object to approach, within the Sanctuary, by any means, within 100 yards of any humpback whale except as authorized under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
and the Endangered Species Act, as amended (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.;
(2) Operating any aircraft above the Sanctuary within 1,000 feet of any humpback whale except as necessary for takeoff or landing from an airport or runway, or as authorized under the MMPA and the ESA;
(3) Taking any humpback whale in the Sanctuary except as authorized under the MMPA and the ESA;
(4) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken) any living or dead humpback whale or part thereof taken in violation of the MMPA or the ESA;
(5) Discharging or depositing any material or other matter in the Sanctuary; altering the seabed of the Sanctuary; or discharging or depositing any material or other matter outside the Sanctuary if the discharge or deposit subsequently enters and injures a humpback whale or humpback whale habitat, provided that such activity:
(i) Requires a Federal or State permit, license, lease, or other authorization; and
(ii) Is conducted:
(A) Without such permit, license, lease, or other authorization, or
(B) not in compliance with the terms or conditions of such permit, license, lease, or other authorization.
(6) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of either of the Acts or any regulations issued under either of the Acts.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this § 922.184 do not apply to activities necessary to respond to emergencies threatening life, property or the environment; or to activities necessary for valid law enforcement purposes. However, while such activities are not subject to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this § 922.184, this paragraph (b) does not exempt the activity from the underlying prohibition or restriction under other applicable laws and regulations (e.g., MMPA, ESA, and CWA).
(c) Any Sanctuary fishery regulations shall not take effect in Hawaii State waters until established by the State Board of Land and Natural Resources.
§ 922.185
Emergency regulations.
Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource, or to minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any and all activities are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition. Before issuance of such regulations the Director shall consult to the extent practicable with any relevant Federal agency and the Governor of the State of Hawaii. Emergency regulations shall not take effect in State waters of the Sanctuary until approved by the Governor of Hawaii.
§ 922.186
Penalties; appeals.
(a) Pursuant to section 307 of the NMSA, each violation of either of the Acts, or any regulation in this subpart is subject to a civil penalty of not more than $100,000. Each such violation is subject to forfeiture of property or Sanctuary resources seized in accordance with section 307 of the NMSA. Each day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate violation.
(b) Regulations setting forth the procedures governing the administrative proceedings for assessment of civil penalties for enforcement reasons, issuance and use of written warnings, and release or forfeiture of seized property appear at 15 CFR Part 904.
(c) A person subject to an action taken for enforcement reasons for violation of these regulations or either of the Acts may appeal pursuant to the applicable procedures in 15 CFR Part 904.
§ 922.187
Interagency Cooperation.
Under section 304(d) of the NMSA, Federal agency actions internal or external to a national marine sanctuary, including private activities authorized by licenses, leases, or permits, that are likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure any sanctuary resource are subject to consultation with the Director. The Federal agency proposing an action shall determine whether the activity is likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure a Sanctuary resource. To the extent practicable, consultation procedures under section 304(d) of the NMSA may be consolidated with interagency cooperation procedures required by other statutes, such as the ESA. The Director will attempt to provide coordinated review and analysis of all environmental requirements.
Pt. 922, Subpt. Q, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart Q of Part 922—Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale, National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates of the Lateral Boundary Closures and Excluded Areas.
Appendix A provides a text and pictoral (see Figures 1-3) description of the Sanctuary boundary with specific lateral closure points and exclusion areas. The lateral extents (bounds) of each boundary area are closed by straight lines defined by at least two points. It may be necessary to extend these lines beyond the defining points to intersect the actual 100 fathom contour or the shoreline. Each point corresponds to a bounds number indicated in Figure 2. Digital files of the Sanctuary boundary (available in three common formats, ESRI Shape File, MapInfo Table, and an ASCII Exchange Format) are available from the Sanctuary office in Kihei, Maui, at the address listed above or by calling (808) 879-2818. These digital geographies are the best available representation of the verbal legal delineation and were derived from: the Hawaiian shoreline as supplied by State of Hawaii through the Office of Planning GIS Office, the NOAA and State of Hawaii agreed upon lateral boundary and exclusion areas, and the 100 fathom isobath digitized from the following 1:80,000 scale NOAA nautical charts-19327—West Coast of Hawaii (9th ED, 4/29/89),
19347—Channels between Molokai, Maui, Lanai, and Kahoolawe (17th ED, 12/13/97),
19351—Channels between Oahu, Molokai, and Lanai (8th ED, 7/01/1989),
19357—Island of Oahu (20th ED, 9/21/1996), and
19381—Island of Kauai (8th ED, 7/17/1993)].
For the portion of the Lanai region of the HIHWNMS west of Chart 19351,[157°42.8′ west] the 100 fathom contour was derived from the 1:250,000 chart 19340—Hawaii to Oahu (24th ED, 1/09/1993).
All digital geography data have been referenced to WGS84 (NAD83) and have been converted to geographic (latitude and longitude) coordinates.

# Sanctuary Boundary
A. As defined by the specific lateral boundaries in B, and except for excluded areas described in paragraph C of this section, the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary consists of the submerged lands and waters off the coast of the Hawaiian Islands seaward from the shoreline, cutting across the mouths of rivers and streams (see Figure 1):
1. To the 100-fathom (183 meter) isobath from Kailiu Point eastward to Mokolea Point, Kauai;
2. To the 100-fathom (183 meter) isobath from Puaena Point eastward to Mahie Point, and from the Kapahulu Groin in Waikiki eastward to Makapuu Point, Oahu;
3. To the 100-fathom (183 meter) isobath from Cape Halawa, Molokai, south and westward to Ilio Point, Molokai; southwestward to include Penguin Banks; eastward along the east side of Lanai; to the waters seaward of the three nautical mile limit north of Kahoolawe, to the Hanamanoia Lighthouse on Maui, and northward along the shoreline to Lipoa Point, Maui;
4. To the deep water area of Pailolo Channel from Cape Halawa, Molokai, to Lipoa Point, Maui, and southward;
5. To the 100-fathom (183 meter) isobath from Upolu Point southward to Keahole Point, Hawaii.
ER29NO99.000
B. Lateral Closure Bounds for the Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary Boundary (see Figure 2).
ER29NO99.001
Bound No.
(fig. 2)
Geographic name
Number of points
Latitude
Longitude
1a
Kailiu Pt., Kauai
2
22.22353
−159.58117
1b
Kailiu Pt., Kauai
22.27597
−159.59983
2a
Mokolea Pt., Kauai
2
22.22497
−159.38217
2b
Mokolea Pt., Kauai
22.24872
−159.37203
3a
Puaena Pt., N Oahu
2
21.64017
−158.14056
3b
Puaena Pt., N Oahu
21.60233
−158.10681
4a
Mahie Pt., N Oahu
2
21.56036
−157.86442
4b
Mahie Pt., N Oahu
21.59228
−157.83486
5a
Kapahulu Groin, S Oahu
3
21.25158
−157.84097
5b
Kapahulu Groin, S Oahu
21.26836
−157.82381
5c
Kapahulu Groin, S Oahu
21.26839
−157.82328
6a
Makapuu Pt., S Oahu
2
21.31100
−157.64908
6b
Makapuu Pt., S Oahu
21.32908
−157.59614
7a
Ilio Pt., Molokai
2
21.22381
−157.31272
7b
Ilio Pt., Molokai
21.22417
−157.25400
8a
Pailolo Channel, C. Halawa to Lipoa Pt
2
21.02494
−156.63944
8b
Pailolo Channel, C. Halaw to Lipoa Pt
21.15819
−156.71033
9a
Hanamanoia Lighthouse, Maui
2
20.57272
−156.44753
9b
Hanamanoia Lighthouse, Maui
20.58289
−156.41256
10a
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
51
20.59947
−156.49222
10b
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.59997
−156.49250
10c
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.60108
−156.49319
10d
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.60183
−156.49358
10e
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.60453
−156.49531
10f
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.60714
−156.49719
10g
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.60961
−156.49925
10h
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.61108
−156.50061
10i
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.61217
−156.50153
10j
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.61411
−156.50336
10k
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.61639
−156.50458
10l
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63297
−156.50631
10m
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.62169
−156.50819
10n
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.62417
−156.51022
10o
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.62653
−156.51244
10p
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.62872
−156.51483
10q
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63081
−156.51733
10r
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63233
−156.51944
10s
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63306
−156.52033
10t
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63500
−156.52297
10u
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63572
−156.52411
10v
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63633
−156.52497
10w
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63811
−156.52775
10x
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63858
−156.52861
10y
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.63983
−156.53011
10z
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.64175
−156.53278
10aa
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.64350
−156.53553
10bb
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.64511
−156.53842
10cc
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.64539
−156.53903
10dd
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.64622
−156.54053
10ee
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.64764
−156.54353
10ff
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.64889
−156.54658
10gg
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.64994
−156.54975
10hh
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65083
−156.55297
10ii
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65111
−156.55436
10jj
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65122
−156.55472
10kk
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65147
−156.55586
10ll
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65189
−156.55797
10mm
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65239
−156.56131
10nn
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65247
−156.56233
10oo
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65269
−156.56378
10pp
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65281
−156.56494
10qq
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65306
−156.56675
10rr
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65336
−156.57011
10ss
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65347
−156.57344
10tt
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65344
−156.57372
10uu
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65350
−156.57514
10vv
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65339
−156.57850
10ww
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65328
−156.57992
10xx
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65325
−156.58025
10yy
3 Nmi. closure around Kahoolawe
20.65314
−156.58217
11a
Technical Closure
2
20.69422
−156.61875
11b
Technical Closure
20.69583
−156.63433
12a
Upolu Pt., Hawaii (Big Island)
2
20.26814
−155.85014
12b
Upolu Pt., Hawaii (Big Island)
20.29997
−155.85478
13a
Keahole Pt., Hawaii (Big Island)
2
19.72767
−156.06186
13b
Keahole Pt., Hawaii (Big Island)
19.72819
−156.07069
Bound No.
(fig.2)
Geographic name
Number of points
Latitude
Longitude
14a
Kawaihae Harbor, Big Island exclusion
2
20.03731
−155.83403
14b
Kawaihae Harbor, Big Island exclusion
20.04036
−155.83269
15a
Haleolono Harbor, Molokai exclusion
2
21.08431
−157.24961
15b
Haleolono Harbor, Molokai exclusion
21.08467
−157.24867
16a
Kaunakakai Harbor, Molokai exclusion
4
21.08719
−157.02658
16b
Kaunakakai Harbor, Molokai exclusion
21.08033
−157.03286
16c
Kaunakakai Harbor, Molokai exclusion
21.07736
−157.02811
16d
Kaunakakai Harbor, Molokai exclusion
21.08539
−157.02083
17a
Kaumalapau Harbor, Lanai exclusion
2
20.78589
−156.99228
17b
Kaumalapau Harbor, Lanai exclusion
20.78364
−156.99203
18a
Manele Harbor, Lanai exclusion
2
20.74256
−156.88692
18b
Manele Harbor, Lanai exclusion
20.74311
−156.88725
19a
Lahaina Harbor, Maui exclusion
2
20.87175
−156.67917
19b
Lahaina Harbor, Maui exclusion
20.87189
−156.67889
20a
Maalaea Harbor, Maui exclusion
2
20.79225
−156.50972
20b
Maalaea Harbor, Maui exclusion
20.79022
−156.51100
21a
Western closure Kuapa Pond (Hawaii Kai), Oahu
2
21.28528
−157.71881
21b
Western closure Kuapa Pond (Hawaii Kai), Oahu
21.28514
−157.71861
22a
Eastern closure Kuapa Pond (Hawaii Kai), Oahu
2
21.28147
−157.71186
22b
Eastern closure Kuapa Pond (Hawaii Kai), Oahu
21.28108
−157.71119
[64 FR 66570, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 88 FR 972, Jan. 6, 2023]

# Subpart R—Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve

# Source:
65 FR 39056, June 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.190
Boundary.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve (Sanctuary) consists of an area of approximately 3,247 square nautical miles (nmi
2
) (4,300 sq. mi.) of waters of Lake Huron and the submerged lands thereunder, over, around, and under the underwater cultural resources in Thunder Bay. The eastern boundary of the sanctuary begins at the intersection of the southern Alcona County boundary and the U.S./Canada international boundary (Point 1). The eastern boundary of the sanctuary approximates the international boundary passing through Points 2-5. The boundary continues west through Point 6 and then back to the northeast until it intersects with the 45.83333° N line of latitude at Point 7. The northern boundary follows the line of latitude 45.83333° N westward until it intersects the −84.33333° W line of longitude at Point 8. The western boundary extends south along the −84.33333° W line of longitude towards Point 9 until it intersects the ordinary high water mark at Cordwood Point. From there, the western boundary follows the ordinary high water mark as defined by Part 325, Great Lakes Submerged Lands, of P.A. 451 (1994), as amended, cutting across the mouths of rivers and streams until it intersects the line formed between Point 10 and Point 11 south of Rogers City, MI. From there the boundary moves offshore through Points 11-15 in order until it intersects the ordinary high water mark along the line formed between Point 15 and Point 16. At this intersection the boundary continues to follow the ordinary high water mark south until it intersects with the line formed between Point 17 and Point 18 near Stoneport Harbor Light in Presque Isle, MI.
From there the boundary moves offshore through Points 18-20 in order until it intersects the ordinary high water mark along the line formed between Point 20 and Point 21. At this intersection the boundary continues to follow the ordinary high water mark south until it intersects the line formed between Point 22 and Point 23 near the Lafarge dock in Alpena, MI. At this intersection the boundary moves towards Point 23 until it intersects the ordinary high water mark. At this intersection the boundary follows the ordinary high water mark south until it intersects the southern Alcona County boundary along the lined formed between Point 24 and Point 25 in Greenbush, MI. Finally, at this intersection the boundary moves eastward and offshore until it reaches Point 25.
(b) Excluded from the Sanctuary boundary are the following ports:
(1) Rogers City;
(2) Presque Isle; and
(3) Alpena.
(c) The coordinates of each boundary area appear in appendix A of this subpart.
[79 FR 52971, Sept. 5, 2014; 79 FR 12080, Sept. 5, 2014, as amended at 88 FR 972, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 19828, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.191
Definitions.
(a) The following terms are defined for purposes of Subpart R:
Minor project
means any project listed in appendix B to this Subpart.
Programmatic Agreement
means the agreement among NOAA, the Federal Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, and the State of Michigan, developed pursuant to the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA), 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
and section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.,
which, in part, sets forth the procedures for review and approval of State Permits that authorize activities prohibited by the Sanctuary regulations.
State Archaeologist
means the State Archaeologist, Michigan Historical Center, Michigan Department of State.
State Permit
means any lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization issued by the State of Michigan for the conduct of activities or projects within the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve that are prohibited by the regulations at § 922.193.
Traditional fishing
means those commercial, recreational, and subsistence fishing activities that were customarily conducted within the Sanctuary prior to its designation or expansion, as identified in the relevant Final Environmental Impact Statement and Management Plan for this Sanctuary. Traditional fishing includes tribal fishing rights as provided for in the 1836 Treaty of Washington and subsequent court decisions related to the Treaty.
Treaty fishing rights
means those rights reserved in the 1836 Treaty of Washington and in subsequent court decisions related to the Treaty.
Underwater cultural resource
means:
(1) Any sunken watercraft, including a ship, boat, canoe, skiff, raft, or barge; the rigging, gear, fittings, trappings, and equipment of any sunken watercraft; the personal property of the officers, crew, and passengers of any sunken watercraft; and the cargo of any sunken watercraft, that sank prior to the effective date of Sanctuary designation; and
(2) Any of the above that sinks on or after the date of Sanctuary designation determined to be an underwater cultural resource by the Director pursuant to § 922.198. Underwater cultural resource also means any historical remnant of docks or piers or associated material, or materials resulting from activities of historic and prehistoric Native Americans.
(b) Other terms appearing in the regulations are defined at 15 CFR part 922 subpart A, and/or in the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
[65 FR 39056, June 22, 2000, as amended at 79 FR 52972, Sept. 5, 2014; 79 FR 12080, Sept. 5, 2014]
§ 922.192
Joint Management Committee.
(a) A state/federal Joint Management Committee shall be established to oversee and engage in decision-making authority for the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve.
(b) The Joint Management Committee shall be comprised of one Federal employee named by the NOAA Administrator and one state employee named by the Governor of Michigan. The Federal employee cannot be the sanctuary manager (the individual who exercises day-to-day management over the Sanctuary) and must have a civil service grade higher than that of the sanctuary manager.
(c) The Joint Management Committee shall:
(1) Develop a position description for, recruit prospective candidates for the position of, interview candidates for the position of, and take part in the annual performance evaluation of, the sanctuary manager;
(2) Approve revisions to the Management Plan;
(3) Approve annual work plans;
(4) Approve, on an annual basis, the expenditure of allocated state and federal funds and other sources of revenue for the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve, in accordance with the Management Plan and the annual work plans; and
(5) Make decisions on other key issues related to management of the Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve.
(d) The Joint Management Committee shall meet as agreed to by the
members but not less than once annually.
(e) If the Joint Management Committee is unable to reach agreement on an issue, the members shall follow the “Consultation and Conflict Resolution” procedures set forth in the Interlocal Agreement between NOAA and the State of Michigan.
(f) The Joint Management Committee may invite affected public parties to participate in selected aspects of Sanctuary management as:
(1) Parties to the Interlocal Agreement pursuant to the Michigan Urban Cooperation Act of 1967, MCL 124.501
et seq.;
and/or
(2) Pursuant to the NMSA.
§ 922.193
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1) Recovering, altering, destroying, possessing, or attempting to recover, alter, destroy, or possess an underwater cultural resource.
(2) Drilling into, dredging or otherwise altering the lakebottom associated with underwater cultural resources, including contextual information; or constructing, placing or abandoning any structure, material or other matter on the lakebottom associated with underwater cultural resources, except as an incidental result of:
(i) Anchoring vessels;
(ii) Traditional fishing operations; or
(iii) Minor projects (as defined in appendix B of this subpart) that do not adversely affect underwater cultural resources.
(3) Using grappling hooks or other anchoring devices on underwater cultural resource sites that are marked with a mooring buoy.
(4) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulations issued under the Act.
(b) Members of a federally-recognized Indian tribe may exercise treaty-secured rights, subject to the requirements of other applicable law, without regard to the requirements of this subpart. The Director may consult with the governing body of a tribe regarding ways the tribe may exercise such rights consistent with the purposes of the Sanctuary, provided that the rights are authorized by the tribe by regulation, license, or permit.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section do not apply to valid law enforcement activities, or any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life or the environment.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section do not apply to any activity:
(1) Specifically authorized by, and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of, a permit issued pursuant to § 922.195 or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.
(2) [Reserved]
[65 FR 39056, June 22, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 19829, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.194
[Reserved]
§ 922.195
Permit procedures.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.193(a)(1) through (3), if the activity is specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a State Permit provided that:
(1) The State Archaeologist certifies to NOAA that the activity authorized under the State Permit will be conducted consistent with the Programmatic Agreement, in which case such State Permit shall be deemed to have met the requirements of subpart D of this part; or
(2) In the case where the State Archaeologist does not certify that the activity to be authorized under a State Permit will be conducted consistent with the Programmatic Agreement, the person complies with the requirements of subpart D of this part.
(b) In instances where the conduct of an activity is prohibited by § 922.193(a)(1) through (3) is not addressed under a State or other Federal
lease, license, permit or other authorization, a person may conduct such activity if it is specifically authorized by and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and the Programmatic Agreement.
(c) A permit for recovery of an underwater cultural resource may be issued if:
(1) The proposed activity satisfies the requirements for permits described under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and section 922.33;
(2) The recovery of the underwater cultural resource is in the public interest;
(3) Recovery of the underwater cultural resource is part of research to preserve historic information for public use; and
(4) Recovery of the underwater cultural resource is necessary or appropriate to protect the resource, preserve historical information, or further the policies of the Sanctuary.
(d) A person shall file an application for a permit with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, Land and Water Management Division, P.O. Box 30458, Lansing, MI 48909-7958. The application shall contain all of the following information:
(1) The name and address of the applicant;
(2) Research plan that describes in detail the specific research objectives and previous work done at the site. An archaeological survey must be conducted on a site before an archaeological permit allowing excavation can be issued;
(3) Description of significant previous work in the area of interest, how the proposed effort would enhance or contribute to improving the state of knowledge, why the proposed effort should be performed in the Sanctuary, and its potential benefits to the Sanctuary;
(4) An operational plan that describes the tasks required to accomplish the project's objectives and the professional qualifications of those conducting and supervising those tasks (
see
paragraph (d)(9) of this section). The plan must provide adequate description of methods to be used for excavation, recovery and the storage of artifacts and related materials on site, and describe the rationale for selecting the proposed methods over any alternative methods;
(5) Archaeological recording, including site maps, feature maps, scaled photographs, and field notes;
(6) An excavation plan describing the excavation, recovery and handling of artifacts;
(7)(i) A conservation plan documenting:
(A) The conservation facility's equipment;
(B) Ventilation temperature and humidity control; and
(C) storage space.
(ii) Documentation of intended conservation methods and processes must also be included;
(8) A curation and display plan for the curation of the conserved artifacts to ensure the maintenance and safety of the artifacts in keeping with the Sanctuary's federal stewardship responsibilities under the Federal Archaeology Program (36 CFR part 79, Curation of Federally-Owned and Administered Archaeological Collections); and
(9) Documentation of the professional standards of an archaeologist supervising the archaeological recovery of historical artifacts. The minimum professional qualifications in archaeology are a graduate degree in archaeology, anthropology, or closely related field plus:
(i) At least one year of full-time professional experience or equivalent specialized training in archeological research, administration or management;
(ii) At least four months of supervised field and analytic experience in general North American archaeology;
(iii) Demonstrated ability to carry research to completion; and
(iv) At least one year of full-time professional experience at a supervisory level in the study of archeological resources in the underwater environment.
[88 FR 7357, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.196
Emergency regulations.
(a) Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or
injury to an underwater cultural resource, or to minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any and all activities are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition. An emergency regulation shall not take effect without the approval of the Governor of Michigan.
(b) Emergency regulations remain in effect until a date fixed in the rule or six months after the effective date, whichever is earlier. The rule may be extended once for not more than six months.
§ 922.197
Effect on affected federally-recognized Indian tribes.
The exercise of treaty fishing rights is not modified, altered, or in any way affected by the regulations promulgated in this Subpart. The Director shall consult with the governing body of each federally-recognized Indian tribe mentioned in the 1836 Treaty of Washington and in subsequent court decisions related to the Treaty regarding any matter which might affect the ability of the Tribe's members to participate in treaty fishing activities in the Sanctuary.
[79 FR 52972, Sept. 5, 2014; 80 FR 12080, Mar. 6, 2015]
§ 922.198
Procedures for determining watercraft and related items which sink on or after the date of Sanctuary designation to be an underwater cultural resource.
The Director, in consultation with the State of Michigan, appropriate federal agencies, and the governing body of any affected federally-recognized tribe, may determine, after providing 45 days for public comment, that any sunken watercraft, including a ship, boat, canoe, skiff, raft, or barge; the rigging, gear, fittings, trappings, and equipment of any sunken watercraft; the personal property of the officers, crew, and passengers of any sunken watercraft; and the cargo of any sunken watercraft, that sinks on or after the date of Sanctuary designation, to be an underwater cultural resource if such is determined by the Director to be 50 years or older and of special national significance due to architectural significance or association with individuals or events that are significant to local or national history.
Pt. 922, Subpt. R, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart R of Part 922—Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve Boundary Coordinates
[Based on North American Datum of 1983]
Point ID
Latitude (north)
Longitude (west)
1
44.512834
−82.329519
2
44.858147
−82.408717
3
45.208484
−82.490596
4
45.335902
−82.52064
5
45.771937
−83.483974
6
45.773944
−83.636867
7
45.833333
−83.586892
8
45.833333
−84.333333
9 *
45.662858
−84.333333
10*
45.41733
−83.77327
11
45.42103
−83.79487
12
45.42708
−83.79371
13
45.42343
−83.75318
14
45.41748
−83.75333
15
45.41210
−83.76805
16 *
45.40738
−83.76785
17 *
45.29672
−83.41908
18
45.29682
−83.40965
19
45.29010
−83.40965
20
45.29464
−83.41914
21 *
45.29681
−83.42277
22 *
45.06632
−83.40715
23 *
45.06560
−83.40810
24 *
44.511734
−83.320169
25
44.512834
−82.329519

# Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not part of the sanctuary boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline for the purpose of charting the boundary.
[79 FR 52972, Sept. 5, 2014; 80 FR 12080, Mar. 6, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 79684, Dec. 23, 2015]
Pt. 922, Subpt. R, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart R of Part 922—Minor Projects for Purposes of § 922.193(
a

# )(2)(
iii

# )
Pursuant to Michigan State Administrative Rule R 322.1013 of Part 325, Great Lakes Submerged Lands of Public Act 451 (Michigan State Statute), the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (Department) issues permits for projects that are of a minor nature which are not controversial, which have minimal adverse environmental impact, which will be constructed of clean, non-polluting materials, which do not impair the use of the adjacent bottomlands by the public, and which do not adversely affect riparian interests of adjacent owners. The following projects are minor projects:
(a) Noncommercial single piers, docks, and boat hoists which meet the following design criteria:
(i) are of a length or size not greater than the length or size of similar structures in the vicinity and on the watercourse involved; and
(ii) provide for the free littoral flow of water and drift material.
(b) Spring piles and pile clusters when their design and purpose is usual for such projects in the vicinity and on the watercourse involved.
(c) Seawalls, bulkheads, and other permanent revetment structures which meet all of the following purpose and design criteria:
(i) the proposed structure fulfills an identifiable need for erosion protection, bank stabilization, protection of uplands, or improvements on uplands;
(ii) the structure will be constructed of suitable materials free from pollutants, waste metal products, debris, or organic materials;
(iii) the structure is not more than 300 feet in length and is located in an area on the body of water where other similar structures already exist;
(iv) the placement of backfill or other fill associated with the construction does not exceed an average of 3 cubic yards per running foot along the shoreline and a maximum of 300 cubic yards; and
(v) the structure or any associated fill will not be placed in a wetland area or placed in any manner that impairs surface water flow into or out of any wetland area.
(d) Groins 50 feet or less in length, as measures from the toe to bluff, which meet all of the following criteria:
(i) the groin is low profile, with the lakeward end not more than 1 foot above the existing water level; and
(ii) the groin is placed at least
1/2
of the groin length from the adjacent property line or closer with written approval of the adjacent riparian.
(e) Filling for restoration of existing permitted fill, fills placed incidental to construction of other structures, and fills that do not exceed 300 cubic yards as a single and complete project, where the fill is of suitable material free from pollutants, waste metal products, debris, or organic materials.
(f) Dredging for the maintenance of previously dredged areas or dredging of not more than 300 cubic yards as a single and complete project when both of the following criteria are met:
(i) No reasonable expectation exists that the materials to be dredged are polluted; and
(ii) All dredging materials will be removed to an upland site exclusive of wetland areas.
(g) Structural repair of man-made structures, except as exempted by Michigan State Administrative Rule R 322.1008(3), when their design and purpose meet both of the following criteria:
(i) The repair does not alter the original use of a recently serviceable structure; and
(ii) The repair will not adversely affect public trust values or interests, including navigation and water quality.
(h) Fish or wildlife habitat structures which meet both of the following criteria:
(i) Are placed so the structures do not impede or create a navigational hazard; and
(ii) Are anchored to the bottomlands.
(i) Scientific structures such as staff gauges, water monitoring devices, water quality testing devices, survey devices, and core sampling devices, if the structures do not impede or create a navigational hazard.
(j) Navigational aids which meet both of the following criteria:
(i) Are approved by the United States Coast Guard; and
(ii) Are approved under Michigan State Act No. 303 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended, being Section 281.1001
et seq.
of the Michigan Compiled Laws, and known as the Marine Safety Act.
(k) Extension of a project where work is being performed under a current permit and which will result in no damage to natural resources.
(l) A sand trap wall which meets all of the following criteria:
(i) The wall is 300 feet or less in length along the shoreline;
(ii) The wall does not extend more than 30 feet lakeward of the toe of bluff;
(iii) The wall is low profile, that is, it is not more than 1 foot above the existing water level; and
(iv) The wall is constructed of wood or steel or other non-polluting material.
(m) Physical removal of man-made structures or natural obstructions which meet all of the following criteria:
(i) The debris and spoils shall be removed to an upland site, not in a wetland, in a manner which will not allow erosion into public waters;
(ii) The shoreline and bottom contours shall be restored to an acceptable condition; and
(iii) Upon completion of structure removal, the site does not constitute a safety or navigational hazard. Department staff shall consider fisheries and wildlife resource values when evaluating applications for natural obstruction removal.

# Subpart S—Mallows Bay—Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
84 FR 32603, July 8, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.200
Boundary.
The Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary consists of an area of approximately 18 square miles
of waters of the state of Maryland and the submerged lands thereunder, over, around, and under the underwater cultural resources in the Potomac River. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart. The western boundary of the sanctuary approximates the border between the Commonwealth of Virginia and the State of Maryland along the western side of the Potomac River and begins at Point 1 north of the mouth of Aquia Creek in Stafford County, Virginia, near Brent Point. From this point the boundary continues to the north approximating the border between Virginia and Maryland cutting across the mouths of streams and creeks passing through the points in numerical order until it reaches Point 40 north of Tank Creek. From this point the sanctuary boundary continues east across the Potomac River in a straight line towards Point 41 until it intersects the Maryland shoreline just north of Sandy Point in Charles County, Maryland. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary then follows the Maryland shoreline south around Mallows Bay, Blue Banks, and Wades Bay cutting across the mouths of creeks and streams along the eastern shoreline of the Potomac River until it intersects the line formed between Point 42 and Point 43 just south of Smith Point. Finally, from this intersection the sanctuary boundary crosses the Potomac River to the west in a straight line until it reaches Point 43 north of the mouth of Aquia Creek in Stafford County, Virginia, near Brent Point.
§ 922.201
Definitions.
(a) The following terms are defined for purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Sanctuary resource
means any historical resource with the Sanctuary boundaries, as defined in § 922.3. This includes, but is not limited to, any sunken watercraft and any associated rigging, gear, fittings, trappings, and equipment; the personal property of the officers, crew, and passengers, and any cargo; and any submerged or partially submerged prehistoric, historic, cultural remains, such as docks, piers, fishing-related remains (e.g., weirs, fish-traps) or other cultural heritage materials. Sanctuary resource also means any archaeological, historical, and cultural remains associated with or representative of historic or prehistoric American Indians and historic groups or peoples and their activities.
(2)
Traditional fishing
means those commercial, recreational, and subsistence fishing activities that were customarily conducted within the Sanctuary prior to its designation or expansion, as identified in the relevant Final Environmental Impact Statement and Management Plan for this Sanctuary.
(b) All other terms appearing in the regulations in this subpart are defined at § 922.11, and/or in the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.,
and 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
[84 FR 32603, July 8, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 19829, Apr. 4, 2023]
§ 922.202
Joint management.
NOAA has primary responsibility for the management of the Sanctuary pursuant to the Act. However, NOAA shall co-manage the Sanctuary in collaboration with the State of Maryland and Charles County. The Director shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement regarding this collaboration that shall address, but not be limited to, such aspects as areas of mutual concern, including Sanctuary programs, permitting, activities, development, and threats to Sanctuary resources.
§ 922.203
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1) Moving, removing, recovering, altering, destroying, possessing, or otherwise injuring, or attempting to move, remove, recover, alter, destroy, possess or otherwise injure a Sanctuary resource, except as an incidental result of traditional fishing. This prohibition does not apply to possessing historical resources removed from the Sanctuary area before the effective date of the Sanctuary designation.
(2) Marking, defacing, or damaging in any way, or displacing or removing or tampering with any signs, notices, or
placards, whether temporary or permanent, or with any monuments, stakes, posts, buoys, or other boundary markers related to the Sanctuary.
(3) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or any permit issued under the Act.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property or the environment; or to activities necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.
(c)(1) All military activities shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impact on sanctuary resources and qualities.
(2) Any existing military activity conducted by DoD prior to the effective date of the regulations in this subpart and as specifically identified in the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Final Management Plan for the Sanctuary (FEIS/FMP) is allowed to continue in the Sanctuary. The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section do not apply to those existing military activities or to the following military activities conducted by DoD:
(i) Low-level overflight of military aircraft operated by DoD;
(ii) The designation of new units of special use airspace;
(iii) The use or establishment of military flight training routes;
(iv) Air or ground access to existing or new electronic tracking communications sites associated with special use airspace or military flight training routes; or
(v) Activities to reduce or eliminate a threat to human life or property presented by unexploded ordnances or munitions.
(3) New military activities that do not violate the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section are allowed. Any new military activity that is likely to violate sanctuary prohibitions may become exempt through consultation between the Director and DoD pursuant to section 304(d) of the NMSA. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), the term “new military activity” includes but is not limited to, any existing military activity that is modified in any way (including change in location, frequency, duration, or technology used) that is likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure a sanctuary resource, or is likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure a sanctuary resource in a manner or to an extent that was not considered in a previous consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA.
(4) In the event of destruction of, loss of, or injury to a sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings caused by DoD, the cognizant component shall promptly coordinate with the Director for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to prevent, respond to or mitigate the harm and, if possible, restore or replace the sanctuary resource or quality.
§ 922.204
Emergency regulations.
(a) Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource, or to minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any and all activities, other than DoD activities, are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition. An emergency regulation shall not take effect without the approval of the Governor of Maryland or her/his designee or designated agency.
(b) Emergency regulations remain in effect until a date fixed in the rule or six months after the effective date, whichever is earlier. The rule may be extended once for not more than six months.
§ 922.205
Permit procedures.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.203(a)(1) and (2) if conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for such permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Mallows Bay-
Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
[88 FR 973, Feb. 6, 2023]
§ 922.206
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
(a) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by § 922.203(a)(1) through (3) if such activity is specifically authorized by a valid Federal, state, or local lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization, or tribal right of subsistence use or access in existence prior to the effective date of sanctuary designation and within the sanctuary designated area and complies with § 922.10 and provided that the holder of the lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization complies with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) In considering whether to make the certifications called for in this section, the Director may seek and consider the views of any other person or entity, within or outside the Federal government, and may hold a public hearing as deemed appropriate.
(c) The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke any certification made under this section whenever continued operation would otherwise be inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the certification. Any such action shall be forwarded in writing to both the holder of the certified permit, license, or other authorization and the issuing agency and shall set forth reason(s) for the action taken.
(d) Requests for findings or certifications should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Sanctuary Superintendent, Mallows Bay-Potomac National Marine Sanctuary, 1305 East West Hwy., 11th Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20910. A copy of the lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization must accompany the request.
(e) For an activity described in paragraph (a) of this section, the holder of the authorization or right may conduct the activity prohibited by § 922.203(a)(1) through (3) provided that:
(1) The holder of such authorization or right notifies the Director, in writing, within 180 days of the
Federal Register
notification announcing of effective date of the Sanctuary designation, of the existence of such authorization or right and requests certification of such authorization or right;
(2) The holder complies with the other provisions of this section; and
(3) The holder complies with any terms and conditions on the exercise of such authorization or right imposed as a condition of certification, by the Director, to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated.
(f) The holder of an authorization or right described in paragraph (a) of this section authorizing an activity prohibited by § 922.203 may conduct the activity without being in violation of applicable provisions of § 922.203, pending final agency action on his or her certification request, provided the holder is otherwise in compliance with this section.
(g) The Director may request additional information from the certification requester as he or she deems reasonably necessary to condition appropriately the exercise of the certified authorization or right to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated. The Director must receive the information requested within 45 days of the postmark date of the request. The Director may seek the views of any persons on the certification request.
(h) The Director may amend any certification made under this section whenever additional information becomes available that he/she determines justifies such an amendment.
(i) Upon completion of review of the authorization or right and information received with respect thereto, the Director shall communicate, in writing, any decision on a certification request or any action taken with respect to any certification made under this section, in writing, to both the holder of the certified lease, permit, license, approval, other authorization, or right, and the issuing agency, and shall set forth the reason(s) for the decision or action taken.
(j) The holder may appeal any action conditioning, amending, suspending, or
revoking any certification in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 922.37.
(k) Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section may be extended by the Director for good cause.
[84 FR 32603, July 8, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 973, Jan. 6, 2023]

# Appendix A to Subpart S of Part 922—Mallows Bay-Potomac River Marine Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates of the Lateral Boundary Closures and Excluded Areas
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Table 1—Coordinates for Sanctuary
Point ID
Latitude
Longitude
1
38.39731
−77.31008
2
38.39823
−77.31030
3
38.39856
−77.31059
4
38.39886
−77.31074
5
38.39917
−77.31067
6
38.40014
−77.31074
7
38.40090
−77.31145
8
38.40138
−77.31215
9
38.40197
−77.31236
10
38.40314
−77.31278
11
38.40658
−77.31377
12
38.40984
−77.31465
13
38.41388
−77.31692
14
38.41831
−77.31913
15
38.41974
−77.31930
16
38.42352
−77.31971
17
38.42548
−77.32030
18
38.42737
−77.32081
19
38.43091
−77.32240
20
38.43163
−77.32242
21
38.43350
−77.32263
22
38.43384
−77.32269
23
38.43430
−77.32265
24
38.43461
−77.32229
25
38.43498
−77.32146
26
38.43526
−77.32057
27
38.43522
−77.32040
28
38.47321
−77.31845
29
38.47434
−77.31874
30
38.47560
−77.31752
31
38.47655
−77.31686
32
38.47748
−77.31666
33
38.47821
−77.31604
34
38.47871
−77.31554
35
38.47885
−77.31563
36
38.47905
−77.31559
37
38.47921
−77.31578
38
38.47943
−77.31592
39
38.47985
−77.31592
40
38.48493
−77.31335
41 *
38.48554
−77.27298
42 *
38.39793
−77.25704
43
38.39731
−77.31008

# Note 1 to table 1 of this appendix:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the sanctuary boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.

# Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 922—Mallows Bay-Potomac River Marine Sanctuary Terms of Designation

# Terms of Designation for the Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary
Under the authority of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, as amended (the “Act” or “NMSA”), 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.,
certain waters and submerged lands located off the Nanjemoy Peninsula of Charles County, Maryland, and along the tidal Potomac River and its surrounding waters are hereby designated as a National Marine Sanctuary for the purposes of providing long-term protection and management of the historical resources and recreational, research, educational, and aesthetic qualities of the area.

# Article I: Effect of Designation
The NMSA authorizes the issuance of such regulations as are necessary and reasonable to implement the designation, including managing and protecting the historical resources and recreational, research, and educational qualities of the Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary (the “Sanctuary”). Section 1 of Article IV of this appendix lists those activities that may have to be regulated on the effective date of designation, or at some later date, in order to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Listing an activity does not necessarily mean that it will be regulated; however, if an activity is not listed it may not be regulated, except on an emergency basis, unless Section 1 of Article IV is amended by the same procedures by which the original Sanctuary designation was made.

# Article II: Description of the Area
The Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary consists of an area of approximately 18 square miles of waters of the State of Maryland and the submerged lands thereunder, over, around, and under the underwater cultural resources in the Potomac River between Stafford County, Virginia, and Charles County, Maryland. The western boundary of the sanctuary approximates the border between the Commonwealth of Virginia and the State of Maryland for roughly 6 miles along the Potomac River, beginning north of the mouth of Aquia Creek in Stafford County, Virginia, near Brent Point and continuing north past Widewater, VA, and Clifton Point to a point north of Tank Creek. From this point the sanctuary boundary crosses the Potomac to the east until it
intersects the Maryland shoreline just north of Sandy Point in Charles County, MD. From this point the eastern boundary of the sanctuary, approximately 8 miles in total length, follows the Maryland shoreline south past Mallows Bay, Blue Banks, and Wades Bay to a point just south of Smith Point. From this location the sanctuary boundary crosses the Potomac River to the west back to its point of origin north of the mouth of Aquia Creek near Brent Point on the Virginia side of the river.

# Article III: Special Characteristics of the Area
Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary and its surrounding waters contain a diverse collection more than 100 known historic shipwreck vessels dating back to the Civil War and potentially dating back to the Revolutionary War, as well as archaeological artifacts dating back 12,000 years indicating the presence of some of the region's earliest American Indian cultures, including the Piscataway Indian Nation and the Piscataway Conoy Confederacy and Sub-Tribes of Maryland. The area is most renowned for the remains of over 100 wooden steamships, known as the “Ghost Fleet,” that were built for the U.S. Emergency Fleet between 1917-1919 as part of U.S. engagement in WWI. Their construction at more than 40 shipyards in 17 states reflects the massive national wartime effort that drove the expansion and economic development of communities and related maritime service industries including the present-day Merchant Marines. The area is contiguous to the Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail, the Star Spangled Banner National Historic Trail, the Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trail and the Lower Potomac Water Trail which offer meaningful educational and recreational opportunities centered on the region's culture, heritage and history. Additionally, the structure provided by the vessels and related infrastructure serve as important habitat to thriving populations of recreational fisheries, bald eagles, and other aquatic species. The area's listing on the National Historical Register of Places in 2015 codifies the historical, archaeological and recreational significance of the Ghost Fleet and related maritime cultural heritage sites in and around Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary.

# Article IV: Scope of Regulations
Section 1. Activities Subject to Regulation. The following activities are subject to regulation, including prohibition, to the extent necessary and reasonable to ensure the protection and management of the historical resources and recreational, research and educational qualities of the area:
a. Moving, removing, recovering, altering, destroying, possessing, or otherwise injuring, or attempting to move, remove, recover, alter, destroy, possess or otherwise injure a Sanctuary resource, except as an incidental result of traditional fishing (as defined in the regulations).
b. Marking, defacing, or damaging in any way, or displacing or removing or tampering with any signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent, or with any monuments, stakes, posts, buoys, or other boundary markers related to the Sanctuary.
c. Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation issued under the Act.
Section 2. NOAA will not exercise its authority under the NMSA to regulate fishing in the Sanctuary.
Section 3. Emergencies. Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource; or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any activity, including those not listed in Section 1, is subject to immediate temporary regulation. An emergency regulation shall not take effect without the approval of the Governor of Maryland or her/his designee or designated agency.

# Article V: Relation to Other Regulatory Program
Section 1. Fishing Regulations, Licenses, and Permits. Fishing in the Sanctuary shall not be regulated as part of the Sanctuary management regime authorized by the Act. However, fishing in the Sanctuary may be regulated by other Federal, State, Tribal and local authorities of competent jurisdiction, and designation of the Sanctuary shall have no effect on any regulation, permit, or license issued thereunder.
Section 2. Other Regulations, Licenses, and Permits. If any valid regulation issued by any federal, state, Tribal, or local authority of competent jurisdiction, regardless of when issued, conflicts with a Sanctuary regulation, the regulation deemed by the Director of the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or designee, in consultation with the State of Maryland, to be more protective of Sanctuary resources and qualities shall govern. Pursuant to section 304(c)(1) of the Act, 16 U.S.C. 1434(c)(1), no valid lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization issued by any federal, state, Tribal, or local authority of competent jurisdiction, or any right of subsistence use or access, may be terminated by the Secretary of Commerce, or designee, as a result of this designation, or as a result of any Sanctuary regulation, if such lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization, or right of subsistence use or access was issued or in existence as of
the effective date of this designation. However, the Secretary of Commerce or designee, in consultation with the State of Maryland, may regulate the exercise of such authorization or right consistent with the purposes for which the Sanctuary is designated.
Section 3. Department of Defense Activities. DoD activities shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impacts on sanctuary resources and qualities. Any existing military activity conducted by DoD prior to the effective date of the regulations in this subpart and as specifically identified in the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Final Management Plan for the Sanctuary (FEIS/FMP) is allowed to continue in the Sanctuary. The prohibitions in § 922.203(a)(1) through (3) do not apply to those existing military activities listed in the FEIS/FMP or the military activities conducted by DoD listed in § 922.203(c)(2). New military activities that do not violate the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section are allowed. Any new military activity that is likely to violate sanctuary prohibitions may become exempt through consultation between the Director and DoD pursuant to section 304(d) of the NMSA. The term “new military activity” includes but is not limited to, any existing military activity that is modified in any way (including change in location, frequency, duration, or technology used) that is likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure a sanctuary resource, or is likely to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure a sanctuary resource in a manner or to an extent that was not considered in a previous consultation under section 304(d) of the NMSA. In the event of destruction of, loss of, or injury to a sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings caused by DoD, the cognizant component shall promptly coordinate with the Director for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to prevent, respond to or mitigate the harm and, if possible, restore or replace the sanctuary resource or quality.

# Article VI. Alteration of This Designation
The terms of designation may be modified only by the same procedures by which the original designation is made, including public meetings, consultation according to the NMSA.

# Subpart T—Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
86 FR 32754, June 23, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.210
Boundary.
Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary consists of an area of approximately 726 square nautical miles (962 square miles) of Lake Michigan waters within the State of Wisconsin and the submerged lands thereunder, over, around, and under the submerged underwater cultural resources in Lake Michigan. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in Appendix A to this subpart. The eastern boundary of the sanctuary begins approximately 9.3 miles east of the Wisconsin shoreline (as defined by the low water datum) in Lake Michigan at Point 1 north of the border between Manitowoc and Kewaunee County. From Point 1 the boundary continues SSW in a straight line to Point 2 and then SW to Point 3 which is located in Lake Michigan approximately 16.3 miles east of a point on the shoreline roughly equidistant between the borders of northern Mequon, WI and southern Port Washington, WI. From Point 3 the boundary continues west towards Point 4 until it intersects the shoreline at the low water datum approximately 2.5 miles north of the northern border of Mequon, WI. From this intersection the boundary continues north following the shoreline at the low water datum, cutting across the mouths of creeks and streams until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 5 and Point 6 at the end of the southern breakwater at the mouth of Sauk Creek at Port Washington. From this intersection the boundary continues to Point 6 through Point 9 in numerical order. From Point 9 the boundary continues towards Point 10 until it intersects the shoreline at the low water datum at the end of the northern breakwater at the mouth of Sauk Creek. From this intersection the boundary continues north following the shoreline at the low water datum cutting across the mouths of creeks and streams until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 11 and Point 12 at the end of the southern breakwater at the mouth of the Sheboygan River. From this intersection the boundary continues to Point 12 through Point 17 in numerical order.
From Point 17 the boundary continues towards Point 18 until it intersects the shoreline at the low water datum at the end of the northern breakwater at the mouth of the Sheboygan River. From this intersection the boundary continues north along the shoreline at the low water datum cutting across the mouths of creeks and streams until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 19 and Point 20 at the end of the southern breakwater at the mouth of Manitowoc Harbor. From this intersection the boundary continues to Point 20 through Point 23 in numerical order. From Point 23 the boundary continues towards Point 24 until it intersects the shoreline at the low water datum at the end of the northern breakwater at the mouth of the Sheboygan River. From this intersection the boundary continues north following the shoreline at the low water datum cutting across the mouths of creeks and streams until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 25 and Point 26 at the end of the western breakwater at the mouth of East Twin River. From this intersection the boundary continues to Point 27 through Point 31 in numerical order.
From Point 31 the boundary continues towards Point 32 until it intersects the shoreline at the low water datum at the end of the eastern breakwater at the mouth of East Twin River. From this intersection the boundary continues NE following the shoreline at the low water datum cutting across the mouths of creeks and streams around Rawley Point and then continues NNW past the county border between Manitowoc and Kewaunee County until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 33 and Point 34 along the shoreline at the low water datum just south of the mouth of the unnamed stream near the intersection of Sandy Bar Road and Lakeview Road near Carlton, WI. Finally, from this intersection at the shoreline at the low water datum the boundary moves east across Lake Michigan to Point 34.
§ 922.211
Definitions.
(a) The following terms are defined for purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Sanctuary resource
means all prehistoric, historic, archaeological, and cultural sites and artifacts within the sanctuary boundary, including all shipwreck sites.
(2)
Shipwreck site
means any historic sunken watercraft, its components, cargo, contents, and associated debris field.
(b) All other terms appearing in the regulations in this subpart are defined at § 922.3, and/or in the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1401
et seq.,
and 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.
§ 922.212
Co-management.
NOAA has primary responsibility for the management of the Sanctuary pursuant to the Act. However, as the Sanctuary is in state waters, NOAA will co-manage the Sanctuary in collaboration with the State of Wisconsin. The Director may enter into a Memorandum of Agreement regarding this collaboration that may address, but not be limited to, such aspects as areas of mutual concern, including Sanctuary resource protection, programs, permitting, activities, development, and threats to Sanctuary resources.
§ 922.213
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1) Moving, removing, recovering, altering, destroying, possessing, or otherwise injuring, or attempting to move, remove, recover, alter, destroy, possess or otherwise injure a sanctuary resource.
(2) Grappling into or anchoring on shipwreck sites.
(3) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or any permit issued under the Act.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment; or
to activities necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.
§ 922.214
Emergency regulations.
(a) Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource, or to minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any and all activities are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition. An emergency regulation shall not take effect without the approval of the Governor of Wisconsin or her/his designee or designated agency.
(b) Emergency regulations remain in effect until a date fixed in the rule or six months after the effective date, whichever is earlier. The rule may be extended once for not more than six months.
§ 922.215
Permit procedures.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.213(a)(1) and (2) if conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for such permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
[88 FR 973, Jan. 6, 2023]
§ 922.216
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
(a) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by § 922.213(a)(1) through (3) if such activity is specifically authorized by a valid Federal, state, or local lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization, or tribal right of subsistence use or access in existence prior to the effective date of sanctuary designation and within the sanctuary designated area and complies with § 922.10 and provided that the holder of the lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization complies with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) In considering whether to make the certifications called for in this section, the Director may seek and consider the views of any other person or entity, within or outside the Federal government, and may hold a public hearing as deemed appropriate.
(c) The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke any certification made under this section whenever continued operation would otherwise be inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the certification. Any such action shall be forwarded in writing to both the holder of the certified permit, license, or other authorization and the issuing agency and shall set forth reason(s) for the action taken.
(d) Requests for findings or certifications should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Sanctuary Superintendent, Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary, 1305 East-West Hwy., 11th Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20910. A copy of the lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization must accompany the request.
(e) For an activity described in paragraph (a) of this section, the holder of the authorization or right may conduct the activity prohibited by § 922.213(a)(1) through (3) provided that:
(1) The holder of such authorization or right notifies the Director, in writing, 180 days of the
Federal Register
document announcing of effective date of the Sanctuary designation, of the existence of such authorization or right and requests certification of such authorization or right;
(2) The holder complies with the other provisions of this section; and
(3) The holder complies with any terms and conditions on the exercise of such authorization or right imposed as a condition of certification, by the Director, to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated.
(f) The holder of an authorization or right described in paragraph (a) of this section authorizing an activity prohibited by § 922.213 may conduct the activity without being in violation of applicable provisions of § 922.213, pending final agency action on his or her certification request, provided the holder is otherwise in compliance with this section.
(g) The Director may request additional information from the certification requester as he or she deems reasonably necessary to condition appropriately the exercise of the certified authorization or right to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated. The Director must receive the information requested within 45 days of the postmark date of the request. The Director may seek the views of any persons on the certification request.
(h) The Director may amend any certification made under this section whenever additional information becomes available that he/she determines justifies such an amendment.
(i) Upon completion of review of the authorization or right and information received with respect thereto, the Director shall communicate, in writing, any decision on a certification request or any action taken with respect to any certification made under this section, in writing, to both the holder of the certified lease, permit, license, approval, other authorization, or right, and the issuing agency, and shall set forth the reason(s) for the decision or action taken.
(j) The holder may appeal any action conditioning, amending, suspending, or revoking any certification in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 922.37.
(k) Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section may be extended by the Director for good cause.
[86 FR 32754, June 23, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 973, Jan. 6, 2023]

# Appendix A to Subpart T of Part 922—Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates of the Lateral Boundary Closures and Excluded Areas
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Table A1—Coordinates for Sanctuary Boundary
Point__ID
Latitude
Longitude
1
44.35279
−87.34387
2
43.45716
−87.48817
3
43.31519
−87.56312
4 *
43.31519
−87.88828
5 *
43.38447
−87.86079
6
43.38455
−87.86062
7
43.38353
−87.85936
8
43.38588
−87.85801
9
43.38510
−87.85950
10 *
43.38523
−87.85963
11 *
43.74858
−87.69479
12
43.74858
−87.69457
13
43.74840
−87.69457
14
43.74778
−87.69191
15
43.74949
−87.69161
16
43.74977
−87.69196
17
43.74935
−87.69251
18 *
43.74946
−87.69265
19 *
44.09135
−87.64377
20
44.09147
−87.64366
21
44.09081
−87.64206
22
44.09319
−87.64202
23
44.09254
−87.64365
24 *
44.09262
−87.64373
25 *
44.14226
−87.56161
26
44.14214
−87.56151
27
44.14199
−87.56181
28
44.13946
−87.55955
29
44.14021
−87.55795
30
44.14274
−87.56023
31
44.14256
−87.56059
32 *
44.14267
−87.56069
33 *
44.35279
−87.53255
34
44.35279
−87.34387
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the sanctuary boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline at the low water datum.

# Appendix B to Subpart T of Part 922—Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary Terms of Designation
Terms of Designation for Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary Under the authority of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, as amended (the “Act” or “NMSA”), 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.,
962 square miles of Lake Michigan off the coast of Wisconsin's coastal counties of Ozaukee, Sheboygan, Manitowoc, and Kewaunee are hereby designated as a National Marine Sanctuary for the purpose of providing long-term protection and management of the historical resources and recreational, research, educational, and aesthetic qualities of the area.

# Article I: Effect of Designation
The NMSA authorizes the issuance of such regulations as are necessary and reasonable to implement the designation, including managing and protecting the historical resources and recreational, research, and educational qualities of Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary (the “Sanctuary”). Section 1 of Article IV of this
Designation Document lists those activities that may have to be regulated on the effective date of designation, or at some later date, in order to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Listing an activity does not necessarily mean that it will be regulated; however, if an activity is not listed it may not be regulated, except on an emergency basis, unless Section 1 of Article IV is amended by the same procedures by which the original Sanctuary designation was made.

# Article II: Description of the Area
Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary consists of an area of approximately 726 square nautical miles (962 square miles) of Lake Michigan waters within the State of Wisconsin and the submerged lands thereunder, over, around, and under the underwater cultural resources in Lake Michigan. The eastern boundary of the sanctuary begins approximately 9.3 miles east of the Wisconsin shoreline in Lake Michigan north of the border between Manitowoc and Kewaunee County. From this point the boundary continues in Lake Michigan roughly to the SSW until it intersects a point in Lake Michigan approximately 16.3 miles east of a point along the shoreline that is approximately equidistant between the borders of Mequon, WI and Port Washington, WI. The southern boundary continues west until it intersects the shoreline at the Low Water Datum at this point between Mequon, WI and Port Washington, WI. The western boundary continues north following the shoreline at the Low Water Datum for approximately 82 miles cutting across the mouths of rivers, creeks, and streams and excluding federally authorized shipping channels; specifically those of Sauk Creek at Port Washington, Sheboygan River at Sheboygan, Manitowoc Harbor as Manitowoc, and East Twin River at Two Rivers. The western boundary ends just north of the border between Manitowoc and Kewaunee County along the shoreline near Carlton, WI. The northern boundary continues from the shoreline at the Low Water Datum at this point east across Lake Michigan just north of the border between these same two counties back to its point of origin approximately 9.3 miles offshore.

# Article III: Special Characteristics of the Area
The area includes a nationally significant collection of maritime heritage resources, including 36 known shipwrecks, about 59 suspected shipwrecks, and other underwater cultural sites. The historic shipwrecks are representative of the vessels that sailed and steamed on Lake Michigan during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, carrying grain and raw materials east and carrying coal, manufactured goods, and people west. During this period entrepreneurs and shipbuilders on the Great Lakes launched tens of thousands of ships of many different designs. Sailing schooners, grand palace steamers, revolutionary propeller-driven passenger ships, and industrial bulk carriers transported America's business and industry. In the process they brought hundreds of thousands of people to the Midwest and made possible the dramatic growth of the region's farms, cities, and industries. The Midwest, and indeed the American nation, could not have developed with such speed and with such vast economic and social consequences without the Great Lakes. Twenty-one of the 36 shipwreck sites in the sanctuary are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Many of the shipwrecks retain an unusual degree of architectural integrity, with several vessels nearly intact. Well preserved by Lake Michigan's cold, fresh water, the shipwrecks and related maritime heritage sites in Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary possess exceptional historical, archaeological and recreational value. Additional underwater cultural resources, such as submerged aircraft, docks, piers, and isolated artifacts also exist, as do the potential for prehistoric sites and artifacts.

# Article IV: Scope of Regulations
Section 1. Activities Subject to Regulation. The following activities are subject to regulation, including prohibition, to the extent necessary and reasonable to ensure the protection and management of the historical resources and recreational, research and educational qualities of the area:
a. Injuring sanctuary resources.
b. Grappling into or anchoring on a shipwreck sites.
c. Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation issued under the Act.
Section 2. Emergencies. Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality; or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any activity, including those not listed in Section 1, is subject to immediate temporary regulation. An emergency regulation shall not take effect without the approval of the Governor of Wisconsin or her/his designee or designated agency.

# Article V: Relation to Other Regulatory Programs
Fishing Regulations, Licenses, and Permits. Fishing in the Sanctuary shall not be
regulated as part of the Sanctuary management regime authorized by the Act. However, fishing in the Sanctuary may be regulated by other Federal, State, Tribal and local authorities of competent jurisdiction, and designation of the Sanctuary shall have no effect on any regulation, permit, or license issued thereunder.

# Article VI. Alteration of This Designation
The terms of designation may be modified only by the same procedures by which the original designation is made, including public meetings, consultation according to the NMSA.

# Subpart U—Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
89 FR 48287, June 6, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.220
Boundary.
Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary consists of an area of approximately 1,300 square nautical miles (1,722 square miles) of Lake Ontario waters within New York State and the submerged lands thereunder; over, around, and under the submerged underwater cultural and historical resources in Lake Ontario. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart. The western boundary of the sanctuary begins at approximately the border between Wayne County and Monroe County where the shoreline (defined here and throughout the remainder of this boundary description as the low water datum) intersects the line segment formed between Point 1 and Point 2. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues north into Lake Ontario to Point 2 and then to each successive point in numerical order to Point 7. From Point 7 the sanctuary boundary continues east to each successive point in numerical order to Point 10. From Point 10 the boundary continues roughly to the northeast to Point 11 and then to Point 12 just southeast of Wolfe Island, ON, Canada and the end of 5th Line Road. From Point 12 the boundary continues roughly southeast towards Point 13 until it intersects the shoreline at the low water datum at Tibbetts Point near the Tibbetts Point Lighthouse southwest of Cape Vincent, New York. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline roughly to the southeast around Tibbetts Point and then continues roughly to the southeast around Wilson Point and Dablon Point until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 14 and Point 15 at the Rt. 6 bridge at the upper end of Mud Bay. From this intersection the boundary continues towards Point 15 until it intersects the shoreline at approximately the mouth of Kents Creek. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline to the southwest around Baird Point continuing roughly southeast cutting across the mouths of creeks and streams around Point Peninsula and along western and then northern Chaumont Bay until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 16 and Point 17. From this intersection the boundary continues across the Chaumont River towards Point 17 until it intersects the shoreline near the eastern side of the West Main Street bridge. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline around eastern Chaumont Bay, Point Salubrious, and Guffin Bay cutting across the mouths of rivers, streams, and creeks and then around Pillar Point and Everleigh Point and up the western side of Black River Bay until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 18 and Point 19 at approximately the mouth of Black River. From this intersection the boundary continues across the Black River towards Point 19 until it intersects the shoreline. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline roughly southwest along the eastern side of Black River Bay and then southwest along the eastern side of Henderson Bay continuing around Stony Point and then roughly south cutting across the mouths of rivers, streams, creeks, and ponds until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 20 and Point 21 at the mouth of the Salmon River near Port Ontario. From this intersection the boundary continues to Point 21 and each successive point in numerical order to Point 24. From Point 24 the boundary continues towards Point 25 until it intersects the shoreline. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline south
and then west around Mexico Bay cutting across the mouths of rivers, streams, creeks, and ponds until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 26 and Point 27 just east of Oswego Harbor. From this intersection the boundary continues towards Point 27 until it intersects the shoreline at the eastern breakwater of Oswego Harbor. From this intersection the boundary follows the lakeward shoreline northwest along the breakwater until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 28 and Point 29. From this intersection the boundary continues across the mouth of Oswego Harbor to Point 29 and each successive point in numerical order to Point 34. From Point 34 the boundary continues towards Point 35 until it intersects the shoreline at the end of the western breakwater of Oswego Harbor. From this intersection the boundary follows the lakeward shoreline roughly to the southwest cutting across the mouths of rivers, streams, creeks, and ponds until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 36 and Point 37 on the eastern side of the mouth of The Pond. From this intersection the boundary continues across the mouth of The Pond towards Point 37 until it intersects the shoreline on the western side. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline west and then north to the intersection of the line segment formed between Point 38 and Pont 39 at the northern end of the eastern breakwater of Little Sodus Bay. From this intersection the boundary continues across the mouth of Little Sodus Bay to Point 39 and each successive point in numerical order to Point 42. From Point 42 the boundary continues towards Point 43 until it intersects the shoreline at the northern end of the western breakwater of Little Sodus Bay. From this intersection the boundary follows the lakeward shoreline roughly west until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 44 and Point 45 on the eastern side of the mouth of Blind Sodus Bay. From this intersection the boundary continues to the intersection of the shoreline and the line segment formed between Point 46 and Point 47 on the western side of the mouth of Blind Sodus Bay. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline roughly southwest cutting across the mouths of rivers, streams, creeks, and ponds until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 48 and the intersection of the shoreline and the line segment formed between Point 49 and Point 50 on the eastern side of the mouth of Port Bay. From this intersection on the eastern side of the mouth of Port Bay the boundary continues to the intersection of the shoreline and the line segment formed between Point 49 and 50 on the western side of the mouth of Port Bay. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline roughly west until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 51 and the intersection of the shoreline and the line segment formed between Point 52 and Point 53 on the eastern side of the mouth of East Bay. From this intersection on the eastern side of the mouth of East Bay the boundary continues to the intersection of the shoreline and the line segment formed between Point 52 and Point 53 on the western side of the mouth of East Bay. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline roughly west until it interests the line segment formed between Point 54 and Point 55 at the northern end of the eastern breakwater of Sodus Bay. From this intersection the boundary continues across the mouth of Sodus Bay to Point 55 and each successive point in numerical order to Point 61. From Point 61 the boundary continues towards Point 62 until it intersects the shoreline at the northern end of the western breakwater of Sodus Bay. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline roughly west cutting across the mouths of rivers, streams, creeks, and ponds until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 63 and Point 64 south of the mouth of Salmon Creek near Pultneyville, NY. From this intersection the boundary continues to Point 64 and each successive point in numerical order to Point 69. From Point 69 the boundary continues towards Point 70 until it intersects the shoreline north of the mouth of Salmon Creek. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline roughly west until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 71 and Point 72
at the eastern side of the R.E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant water outfall. From this intersection the boundary continues towards Point 72 until it intersects the shoreline on the western side of the R.E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant water outfall. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline west cutting across the mouths of rivers, streams, creeks, and ponds until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 73 and Point 74 where it ends. The inner landward sanctuary boundary is defined by and follows the shoreline as defined by the low water datum where not already specified in the boundary description above. The Tibbetts Point Anchorage Area is excluded from the sanctuary area described above, and its boundary begins at Point TPAA1 and continues to each successive point in numerical order until ending at Point TPAA7.
§ 922.221
Definitions.
The following terms are defined for purposes of this subpart U:
Sanctuary resource
means all historical resources as defined at 15 CFR 922.11, which includes any pre-contact and historic sites, structures, districts, objects, and shipwreck sites within sanctuary boundaries.
Shipwreck site
means all archaeological and material remains associated with sunken watercraft or aircraft that are historical resources, including associated components, cargo, contents, artifacts, or debris fields that may be exposed or buried within the lake bed.
Tethered underwater mobile system
means remotely operated vehicles and other systems with onboard propulsion systems that utilize a tether connected to a station-holding (e.g.byanchor, dynamic positioning, or manual vessel operation) surface support vessel.
§ 922.222
Co-management.
(a) NOAA has primary responsibility for the management of the Sanctuary pursuant to the Act. However, as the Sanctuary is in State waters, NOAA will co-manage Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary in collaboration with New York State. The Director may enter into a Memorandum of Agreement regarding this collaboration that may address, but not be limited to, such aspects as areas of mutual concern, including sanctuary resource protection, programs, permitting, activities, development, and threats to sanctuary resources.
(b) Furthermore, sunken military craft are administered by the respective Secretary concerned pursuant to the Sunken Military Craft Act. The Director will enter into a Memorandum of Agreement regarding collaboration with other federal agencies charged with implementing the Sunken Military Craft Act that may address aspects of managing and protecting sunken military craft. The Director will request approval from the Secretary concerned for any terms and conditions of ONMS authorizations that may involve sunken military craft.
§ 922.223
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1) Moving, removing, recovering, altering, destroying, possessing or otherwise injuring, or attempting to move, remove, recover, alter, destroy, possess or otherwise injure a sanctuary resource.
(2) Possessing, selling, offering for sale, purchasing, importing, exporting, exchanging, delivering, carrying, transporting, or shipping by any means any sanctuary resource within or outside of the sanctuary.
(3) Grappling into or anchoring on shipwreck sites.
(4) Deploying a tethered underwater mobile system at shipwreck sites.
(5) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or any permit issued under the Act.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment; or to activities necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 48291, June 6, 2024, in § 922.223, paragraph (a)(3) was stayed until July 21, 2026.
§ 922.224
Emergency regulations.
(a) Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a sanctuary resource, or to minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any and all activities are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition. An emergency regulation shall not take effect without the approval of the Governor of New York or her/his designee or designated agency.
(b) Emergency regulations remain in effect until a date fixed in the rule or six months after the effective date, whichever is earlier. The rule may be extended once for not more than six months.
§ 922.225
Permit procedures and review criteria.
(a) A person may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by § 922.223(a)(1) through (4) if conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for such permits should be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
§ 922.226
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or right to conduct a prohibited activity.
(a) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by § 922.223(a)(1) through (4) within the sanctuary if such activity is specifically authorized by a valid Federal, State, or local lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access that is in existence on the effective date of sanctuary designation, provided that the holder of the lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access complies with § 922.10 and provided that:
(1) The holder of such authorization or right notifies the Director, in writing, within 90 days of the effective date of the sanctuary designation of the existence and location of such authorization or right and requests certification of such authorization or right; and
(2) The holder complies with any terms and conditions on the exercise of such authorization or right imposed as a condition of certification, by the Director, to achieve the purposes for which the sanctuary was designated.
(b) Requests for certifications shall be addressed to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Sanctuary Superintendent, Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary, 1305 East-West Hwy., 10th Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20910 or sent by electronic means as defined in the instructions for the ONMS permit application. A copy of the lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access must accompany the request.
(c) A certification requester with an authorization or right described in paragraph (a) of this section authorizing an activity prohibited by § 922.223(a)(1) through (4) may continue to conduct the activity without being in violation of applicable provisions of § 922.223(a)(1) through (4), pending the Director's review of and decision regarding his or her certification request.
(d) The Director may request additional information from the certification requester as the Director deems reasonably necessary to condition appropriately the exercise of the certified authorization or right to achieve the purposes for which the sanctuary was designated. The Director must receive the information requested within 45 days of the date of the Director's request for information. Failure to provide the requested information within this time frame may be grounds for denial by the Director of the certification request.
(e) In considering whether to issue a certification, the Director may seek and consider the views of any other person or entity, within or outside the Federal government, and may hold a public hearing as deemed appropriate by the Director.
(f) Upon completion of review of the authorization or right and information received with respect thereto, the Director shall communicate, in writing, any decision on a certification request or any action taken with respect to
any certification made under this section, in writing, to both the holder of the certified lease, permit, license, approval, other authorization, or right, and the issuing agency, and shall set forth the reason(s) for the decision or action taken.
(g) The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke any certification issued under this section whenever continued operation would otherwise be inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the certification. Any such action shall be forwarded in writing to both the certification holder and the agency that issued the underlying lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access, and shall set forth reason(s) for the action taken.
(h) The Director may amend any certification issued under this section whenever additional information becomes available that he or she determines justifies such an amendment.
(i) The certification holder may appeal any action conditioning, amending, suspending, or revoking any certification in accordance with the procedures set forth at § 922.37.
(j) Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section may be extended by the Director for good cause.
(k) It is unlawful for any person to violate any terms and conditions in a certification issued under this section.
§ 922.227
Effect on affected federally recognized Nations and Tribes.
The exercise of treaty rights for federally recognized Nations and Tribes and their citizens is not modified, altered, or in any way affected by the regulations promulgated in this subpart. The Director shall consult with the governing body of each federally-recognized Nation and Tribe protected by the 1794 Treaty of Canandaigua regarding any matter which might affect the ability of the Nation and Tribe's citizens to participate in activities protected by that treaty in the Sanctuary.
Pt. 922, Subpt. U, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart U of Part 922—Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Description and Coordinates of the Excluded Areas
[Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983]
Point ID
Longitude
Latitude
1 *
−77.37605
43.27611
2
−77.37595
43.28695
3
−77.37586
43.29671
4
−77.37621
43.34516
5
−77.37720
43.37579
6
−77.38799
43.63154
7
−77.38811
43.63443
8
−77.27009
43.63406
9
−77.03338
43.63283
10
−76.79668
43.63112
11
−76.43893
44.09406
12
−76.39866
44.11289
13 *
−76.37053
44.10060
14 *
−76.31232
44.08230
15 *
−76.31207
44.08198
16 *
−76.14042
44.07041
17 *
−76.13852
44.06959
18 *
−76.06446
43.99626
19 *
−76.06179
43.99401
20 *
−76.20404
43.57746
21
−76.20447
43.57758
22
−76.20714
43.58113
23
−76.20748
43.58099
24
−76.20503
43.57775
25 *
−76.20529
43.57783
26 *
−76.50692
43.46890
27 *
−76.50783
43.46975
28 *
−76.51393
43.47389
29
−76.51426
43.47384
30
−76.51761
43.47726
31
−76.52558
43.47878
32
−76.52597
43.47667
33
−76.51946
43.47543
34
−76.51629
43.47349
35 *
−76.51675
43.47341
36 *
−76.69906
43.34447
37 *
−76.69941
43.34458
38 *
−76.70792
43.35032
39
−76.70816
43.35033
40
−76.70883
43.35635
41
−76.70939
43.35632
42
−76.70873
43.35032
43 *
−76.70895
43.35029
44 *
−76.72070
43.34361
45 *
−76.72068
43.34402
46 *
−76.72158
43.34399
47 *
−76.72161
43.34363
48 *
−76.83715
43.30499
49 *
−76.83720
43.30583
50 *
−76.83817
43.30492
51 *
−76.89154
43.29490
52 *
−76.89170
43.29537
53 *
−76.89215
43.29513
54 *
−76.97229
43.27682
55
−76.97277
43.27698
56
−76.97276
43.27705
57
−76.97254
43.27759
58
−76.97227
43.28239
59
−76.97340
43.28243
60
−76.97367
43.27763
61
−76.97356
43.27724
62 *
−76.97398
43.27738
63 *
−77.18445
43.28297
64
−77.18445
43.28306
65
−77.18304
43.28320
66
−77.18278
43.28414
67
−77.18315
43.28419
68
−77.18334
43.28349
69
−77.18444
43.28324
70 *
−77.18444
43.28338
71 *
−77.30817
43.27903
72 *
−77.30843
43.27902
73 *
−77.37605
43.27611
74
−77.37595
43.28695
TPAA1
−76.39049
44.08896
TPAA2
−76.37805
44.08940
TPAA3
−76.38611
44.07613
TPAA4
−76.39271
44.06881
TPAA5
−76.41217
44.07577
TPAA6
−76.39897
44.09566
TPAA7
−76.39049
44.08896
Note:
The coordinates in the table above marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the sanctuary boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline at the low water datum.
Pt. 922, Subpt. U, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart U of Part 922—Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary Terms of Designation
Under the authority of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, as amended (the “Act” or “NMSA”), 16 U.S.C. 1431
et seq.,
1,300 nmi
2
(1,722 mi
2
) of Lake Ontario off the coast of New York's coastal counties of Wayne, Cayuga, Oswego, and Jefferson are hereby designated as a National Marine Sanctuary for the purpose of providing long-term protection and management of the cultural and historical resources and the recreational, research, educational, and aesthetic qualities of the area.

# Article I: Effect of Designation
The NMSA authorizes the issuance of such regulations as are necessary and reasonable to implement the designation, including managing and protecting the cultural and historical resources and the recreational, research, and educational qualities of Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary (the “Sanctuary”). Section 1 of Article IV of this Designation Document lists those activities that may have to be regulated on the effective date of designation, or at some later date, in order to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Listing an activity does not necessarily mean that it will be regulated. However, if an activity is not listed it may not be regulated, except on an emergency basis, unless Section 1 of Article IV is amended by the same procedures by which the original Sanctuary designation was made.

# Article II: Description of the Area
Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary covers approximately 1,300 nmi
2
(1,722 mi
2
) in eastern Lake Ontario. The boundary coordinates are defined by regulation (15 CFR 922.220).

# Article III: Special Characteristics of the Area
Over 1,000 years ago, the Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga and Seneca Nations were united into the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, under the Gayanashagowa, the Great Law of Peace. The Tuscarora later joined the Haudenosaunee Confederacy. Portions of the original homelands of the Onondaga Nation, Cayuga Nation, Seneca Nation, and Oneida Nation lie within the boundaries of the sanctuary. This area was their homeland and they developed a deep understanding of, and had a strong connection to, the land and to the water.
Eastern Lake Ontario represents a diverse array of important events in our Nation's history, including military conflicts, maritime innovation, and American expansion to the west. This area has been a critical nexus of maritime trade and transportation for centuries, beginning with canoes and boats of early Indigenous peoples. During the colonial period, Lake Ontario was a strategic theater of conflict among European powers and the young American republic. Military actions occurred in the region during the French and Indian War, Revolutionary War, and the War of 1812. Later, this region was critical to the development of the American West and the Nation's industrial core.
Well-preserved by cold, fresh water, the shipwrecks and other underwater cultural and historical resources in the sanctuary possess exceptional historical, archaeological and recreational value. Vessels that historically plied Lake Ontario's waters often met with treacherous conditions, which resulted in numerous wrecking events. The area contains a total of 41 known shipwrecks and one aircraft, including one shipwreck (
St. Peter
) that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and one wreck (
David Mills)
that is a New York State Submerged Cultural Preserve and Dive Site. This area may also include approximately 19 potential shipwreck sites (shipwrecks that may exist, but additional research is needed to locate and describe these shipwrecks), three aircraft, and several other underwater archaeological sites. Represented in the collection are commercial and military vessels from colonial wars and the War of 1812, as well as submerged battlefields at Oswego and Sackets Harbor. Other shipwrecks represent the earliest maritime commerce on the Great Lakes, including the nearly intact sloop
Washington
built in 1797.

# Article IV: Scope of Regulations

# Section 1. Activities Subject to Regulation
The following activities are subject to regulation under the NMSA. Such regulation may include prohibitions to ensure the protection and management of the conservation, recreational, historical, scientific, educational, cultural, archaeological, or aesthetic resources and qualities of the area. Listing an activity in the Terms of Designation does not mean that such activity is being or will be regulated. Listing an activity here means that Secretary of Commerce can regulate the activity, after complying with all applicable regulatory laws, without going through the designation procedures required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 304 of the NMSA, 16 U.S.C. 1434(a) and (b).
Activities Subject to Regulation:
• Injuring or disturbing sanctuary resources;
• Possessing, transporting, or engaging in commerce of any sanctuary resource;
• Grappling into or anchoring on shipwreck sites;
• Deploying tethered underwater mobile systems at shipwreck sites;
• Interfering with an investigation in connection with enforcement of the NMSA.

# Section 2. Emergencies
Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality; or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any activity and all activities, including those not listed in Section 1, are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition. An emergency regulation shall not take effect without the approval of the Governor of New York or her/his designee or designated agency.

# Article V: Alteration of this Designation
The terms of designation, as defined under Section 304(a)(4) of the Act, may be modified only by the same procedures by which the original designation is made, including public hearings, consultations with interested Federal, Tribal, State, regional, and local authorities and agencies, review by the appropriate Congressional committees, and approval by the Secretary of Commerce, or his or her designee.

# Subpart V—Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary

# Source:
89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 922.230
Boundary.
Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary covers 4,543 mi
2
(3,431 nmi
2
) of coastal and ocean waters and the submerged lands thereunder, spanning 116 miles along the central California coast off the counties of San Luis Obispo and Santa Barbara. The sanctuary spans a maximum distance of 60 miles from shore, and reaches a maximum depth of 11,580 feet below sea level. Describing the boundary in a clockwise fashion, the Final Preferred Alternative starts along the coast approximately two miles southeast of the breakwater for the Diablo Canyon Power Plant marina, then runs south along the mean high water line through San Luis Obispo County and northern and western Santa Barbara County to the eastern end of the Naples Marine Conservation Area on the Gaviota Coast. Along this stretch, the harbor areas at Port San Luis and Vandenberg Space Force Base near Point Arguello are excluded from the sanctuary. Offshore, the boundary extends from the western edge of Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary, around important features like Rodriguez Seamount, most of Arguello Canyon, and about half of the Santa Lucia Bank and part of its escarpment. At a point approximately 55 miles offshore of the Santa Maria River mouth, the boundary extends east 43 miles, then due north for 12 miles to the point of origin south of the Diablo Canyon Power Plant marina. This narrative boundary description is provided to facilitate public understanding, but please refer to the formal boundary description and the precise boundary coordinates in Appendix A to this subpart.
§ 922.231
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions found in § 922.11, the following terms are defined for purposes of this subpart:
Beneficial use of dredged material
means the use of dredged material removed from the public harbor adjacent to the Sanctuary (Port San Luis) that is determined by the Director to be suitable as a resource for habitat protection or restoration purposes. Beneficial use of dredged material is not disposal of dredged material.
Rodriguez Seamount Management Zone
means the area bounded by geodetic lines connecting a heptagon generally centered on the top of the Rodriguez Seamount, and consists of approximately 570 mi
2
(430 nmi
2
) of ocean waters and the submerged lands thereunder. The northeast corner of this zone is located approximately 27 miles southwest of Point Conception off the coast of Santa Barbara County. Exact coordinates for the Rodriguez Seamount Management Zone boundary are provided in appendix B to this subpart.
§ 922.232
Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) and paragraph (g) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:
(1) Exploring for, developing, or producing oil, gas, or minerals within the Sanctuary, except for oil and gas production, which includes well abandonment, pursuant to existing leases or lease units in effect on the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024).
(2)(i) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary, other than from a cruise ship, any material or other matter, except:
(A) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials, or bait used in or resulting from lawful fishing activities within the Sanctuary, provided that such discharge or deposit is during the conduct of lawful fishing activities within the Sanctuary;
(B) For a vessel less than 300 gross registered tons (GRT), or a vessel 300 GRT or greater without sufficient holding tank capacity to hold sewage while within the Sanctuary, clean effluent generated incidental to vessel use by an operable Type I or II marine sanitation device (U.S. Coast Guard classification) approved in accordance with section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1322. Vessel operators must lock all marine sanitation devices in a manner that prevents discharge or deposit of untreated sewage;
(C) Clean vessel deck wash down, clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, clean bilge water, or anchor wash;
(D) For a vessel less than 300 GRT, or a vessel 300 GRT or greater without sufficient holding capacity to hold graywater while within the Sanctuary, clean graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA;
(E) Vessel engine or generator exhaust;
(F) Beyond 3 nautical miles from shore, sewage and non-clean graywater as defined by section 312 of the FWPCA generated incidental to vessel use by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel without sufficient holding tank capacity and without a Type I or II marine sanitation device; and beyond 12 nautical miles from shore, ammunition, pyrotechnics, or other materials directly related to training for search and rescue and live ammunition activities conducted by U.S. Coast Guard vessels and aircraft;
(G) Dredged material deposited at disposal sites within the Sanctuary authorized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in consultation with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, prior to the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024); or
(H) Discharges incidental and necessary to oil and gas production within or into reservoirs contained within existing leases or lease units in effect on the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024) from Platform Irene or Platform Heritage, including well abandonment.
(ii) Discharging or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary any material or other matter from a cruise ship except clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, vessel engine or generator exhaust, clean bilge water, or anchor wash.
(iii) Discharging or depositing from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except material or other matter listed as exceptions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (F) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3) Drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the submerged lands of
the Sanctuary; or constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary, except as incidental and necessary to:
(i) Conduct lawful fishing activities or lawful kelp harvesting;
(ii) Anchor a vessel;
(iii) Install or maintain an authorized navigational aid;
(iv) Repair, replace, or rehabilitate an existing dock, pier, breakwater, or jetty;
(v) Conduct maintenance dredging of entrance channels for harbors in existence prior to the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024); or,
(vi) Drill, maintain, or abandon a well necessary for purposes related to oil and gas production pursuant to existing leases or lease units in effect on the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024) from Platform Irene or Platform Heritage.
(vii) The exceptions listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) through (vi) of this section do not apply in the Rodriguez Seamount Management Zone, the boundary of which is defined in appendix B to this subpart.
(4) Moving, removing, or injuring, or attempting to move, remove, or injure, a Sanctuary historical resource; or possessing or attempting to possess a Sanctuary historical resource, except as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes. This prohibition does not apply to, moving, removing, or injury resulting incidentally from lawful kelp harvesting or lawful fishing activities.
(5) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird within or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.,
Endangered Species Act, as amended (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.,
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703
et seq.,
or any regulation promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.
(6) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken, moved, or removed from), any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, except as authorized by the MMPA, ESA, MBTA, by any regulation promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA, or as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.
(7) Deserting a vessel aground, at anchor, or adrift in the Sanctuary or leaving harmful matter aboard a grounded or deserted vessel in the Sanctuary.
(8) Attracting any white shark within the Sanctuary.
(9)(i) Moving, removing, taking, collecting, catching, harvesting, disturbing, breaking, cutting, or otherwise injuring, or attempting to move, remove, take, collect, catch, harvest, disturb, break, cut, or otherwise injure, any Sanctuary resource located more than 1,500 ft. below the sea surface within the Rodriguez Seamount Management Zone, as defined in appendix B to this subpart. This prohibition does not apply to lawful fishing, which is regulated pursuant to 50 CFR part 660.
(ii) Possessing any Sanctuary resource, the source of which is more than 1,500 ft. below the sea surface within the Rodriguez Seamount Management Zone, except as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes. This prohibition does not apply to possession of fish resulting from lawful fishing, which is regulated pursuant to 50 CFR part 660.
(10) Introducing or otherwise releasing from within or into the Sanctuary an introduced species, except striped bass (
Morone saxatilis
) released during catch and release fishing activity.
(11) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying, or preventing an investigation, search, seizure, or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (7) and (9) of this section do not apply to an activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.
(c)(1) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (7) and (9) and (10) of this section do not apply to existing activities carried out or approved by the Department of Defense that were conducted prior to the effective date of this designation (Nov. 30, 2024), as specifically identified in section 4.9 or appendix I to the final environmental impact statement for Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary (for availability, see
https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/
chumash-heritage/
). New activities may be exempted from the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (7) and (9) and (10) of this section by the Director after consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense. All Department of Defense activities must be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impacts on Sanctuary resources and qualities.
(2) In the event of threatened or actual destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an untoward incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings caused by the Department of Defense, the Department of Defense shall promptly coordinate with the Director for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to respond to and mitigate the harm and, if practicable, restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (9) of this section do not apply to any activity conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary general permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.233, or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.
(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (9) of this section, and paragraph (a)(10) of this section regarding any introduced species of shellfish that NOAA and the State of California have determined is non-invasive and will not cause significant adverse effects to Sanctuary resources or qualities, and that is cultivated in State waters as part of commercial shellfish aquaculture activities, do not apply to any activity authorized by any lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization issued after the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024) and issued by any Federal, State, or local authority of competent jurisdiction, provided that the applicant complies with § 922.36, the Director notifies the applicant and authorizing agency that the Director does not object to issuance of the authorization, and the applicant complies with any terms and conditions the Director deems necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Amendments, renewals, and extensions of authorizations in existence on the effective date of designation constitute authorizations issued after the effective date of Sanctuary designation.
(f)(1) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, in no event may the Director issue a National Marine Sanctuary general permit under subpart D of this part and § 922.233, or an ONMS authorization or special use permit under subpart D of this part authorizing, or otherwise approve:
(i) The exploration for, development, or production of oil, gas, or minerals within the Sanctuary;
(ii) The discharge of untreated or primary-treated sewage within the Sanctuary (except by certification, pursuant to §§ 922.10 and 922.234, of valid authorizations in existence prior to the effective date of designation (Nov. 30, 2024) and issued by other authorities of competent jurisdiction); or
(iii) The disposal of dredged material within the Sanctuary other than at sites authorized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency prior to the effective date of designation (Nov. 30, 2024). For the purposes of this subpart, the disposal of dredged material does not include the beneficial use of dredged material, as defined at § 922.231, related to dredging activity at Port San Luis.
(2) Any purported authorizations issued by other authorities within the Sanctuary shall be invalid.
(g) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by paragraphs (a)(2) through (10) of this section within the Sanctuary if such activity is specifically authorized by a valid Federal, State, or local lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access that is in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024) and within the sanctuary designated area and complies with § 922.10, provided that the holder of the lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access complies with the certification procedures for CHNMS as outlined in § 922.234.
§ 922.233
Permit procedures.
(a) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by § 922.232(a)(2) through (9),
if such activity is specifically authorized by, and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of, a sanctuary general permit issued under this section and subpart D of this part.
(b) Applications for permits should be addressed to the West Coast Regional Office, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary, 99 Pacific Street, Suite 100F, Monterey, CA 93940.
§ 922.234
Certification of preexisting leases, licenses, permits, approvals, other authorizations, or other rights to conduct a prohibited activity.
(a) To obtain a certification of an activity that is specifically authorized by a valid Federal, State, or local lease, permit, license, approval, other authorization or right of subsistence use or access (hereafter in this subsection “permit or right”) in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024) and within the sanctuary designated area, pursuant to §§ 922.10 and 922.232(g), the holder of such permit or right shall:
(1) Notify the Director, in writing, within 120 days of the effective date of Sanctuary designation (Nov. 30, 2024) of the existence and location of such permit or right and requests certification of such permit or right; and
(2) Comply with any terms and conditions on the exercise of such permit or right imposed as a condition of certification, by the Director, to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated.
(3) Address any requests for certifications to: West Coast Regional Office, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries; ATTN: Superintendent, Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary, 99 Pacific Street, Suite 100F, Monterey, CA 93940, or send by electronic means as defined in the instructions for the ONMS permit application. A copy of the permit or right must accompany the request.
(b) A holder requesting certification of a permit or right described in § 922.232(g) may continue to conduct the activity without being in violation of Sanctuary prohibitions pending the Director's review of and decision regarding the holder's certification request, provided the holder is otherwise in compliance with this section.
(c) The Director may request additional information from the holder requesting certification as the Director deems reasonably necessary to condition appropriately the exercise of the certified permit or right to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated. The Director must receive the information requested within 45 days of the date of the Director's request for information. Failure to provide the requested information within this time frame may be grounds for denial by the Director of the certification request.
(d) In considering whether to impose appropriate conditions when issuing a certification, the Director may seek and consider the views of any other person or entity.
(e) Upon completion of review of the permit or right and information received with respect thereto, the Director shall communicate, in writing, any decision to impose appropriate conditions on a certification request or any action taken with respect to any certification made under this section, in writing, to both the holder of the certified permit, or right, and the issuing agency, and shall set forth the reason(s) for the decision or action taken.
(f) The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke any certification issued under this section whenever continued operation would otherwise be inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the certification, or whenever the underlying permit or right on which the certification was issued has been amended, suspended or revoked. Any such action shall be forwarded in writing to both the certification holder and the agency that issued the underlying permit or right, and shall set forth reason(s) for the action taken.
(g) The holder may appeal any action conditioning a certification, or after issuance of a certification, amending, suspending, or revoking any certification in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 922.37.
(h) Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section may be extended by the Director for good cause.
(i) It is unlawful for any person to violate any terms and conditions in a certification issued under this section.
§ 922.235
Memoranda of Agreement with partner agencies.
(a)
Introduced species aquaculture projects.
(1) NOAA would describe in a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the State of California how NOAA will coordinate review of any proposed introduction of non-invasive introduced species from a proposed commercial shellfish aquaculture activity in State waters when considering an authorization under § 922.232(e).
(2) The MOA would specify how the process of § 922.36 in subpart D will be administered within State waters within the sanctuary in coordination with State permit and lease programs as administered by the California Fish and Game Commission, the Department of Fish and Wildlife and the California Coastal Commission.
(b)
Sunken military craft.
Sunken military craft are administered by the respective Secretary concerned pursuant to the Sunken Military Craft Act. The Director will enter into a MOA regarding collaboration with other Federal agencies charged with implementing the Sunken Military Craft Act that may address aspects of managing and protecting sunken military craft. The Director will request approval from the Secretary concerned for any terms and conditions of ONMS authorizations that may involve sunken military craft.

# Appendix A to Subpart V of Part 922—Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary Formal Boundary Description and Coordinates
The northern boundary of the sanctuary begins at Point 1 approximately 36 nautical miles (41 statute miles) WSW of Point Buchon. From Point 1 the sanctuary boundary continues east to Point 2 and then north towards Point 3 until it intersects the shoreline as defined by the mean high water (MHW) tidal datum approximately 2 nautical miles (2.3 statute miles) southeast of the entrance to the harbor at the Diablo Canyon Power Plant. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary follows the shoreline southeast past Point San Luis until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 4 and Point 5 on the southern end of the southwest breakwater of Port San Luis in San Luis Obispo Bay. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues northeast towards Point 5 until it intersects the shoreline at Fossil Point on the northeast side of Port San Luis. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary follows the shoreline southeast past Pismo Beach and then south past Point Sal and around Point Arguello until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 6 and Point 7 on the eastern end of the breakwater just southeast of the Point Arguello Coast Guard Rescue Station. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues east to Point 7 and then north towards Point 8 until it intersects the shoreline. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues to follow the shoreline southeast past Point Conception and then east along the Gaviota Coast until it intersects the line segment formed between Point 9 and Point 10 approximately 1.7 nautical miles (2.0 statute miles) east of Dos Pueblos Canyon near the township of Naples in Santa Barbara County. From this intersection the sanctuary boundary continues offshore south to Point 10 and turns west and continues, approximating the 3 nautical mile State Seaward Boundary, passing through each successive point in numerical order to Point 119. From Point 119 the sanctuary boundary continues southwest passing through each successive point in numerical order to Point 129. From Point 129 the sanctuary boundary continues west along its southern extent to Point 130 and then Point 131 passing to the south of Arguello Canyon and Rodriguez Seamount. From Point 131 the sanctuary boundary continues roughly north for approximately 76 nautical miles (87.5 statute miles) along its western extent passing through each successive point in numerical order while passing Santa Lucia Bank to the west until it ends at Point 154.
Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Point ID
Latitude
Longitude
1
35.01394
−121.58238
2
35.01394
−120.82173
3 *
35.19306
−120.82173
4 *
35.15602
−120.74984
5 *
35.17425
−120.72509
6 *
34.55436
−120.60823
7
34.55436
−120.60643
8 *
34.55696
−120.60643
9 *
34.43590
−119.93333
10
34.37859
−119.93333
11
34.38126
−119.93822
12
34.38391
−119.94270
13
34.38362
−119.94657
14
34.38354
−119.95046
15
34.38358
−119.95292
16
34.38367
−119.95496
17
34.38381
−119.95698
18
34.38401
−119.95900
19
34.38451
−119.96257
20
34.38575
−119.96946
21
34.38677
−119.97406
22
34.38730
−119.97601
23
34.38794
−119.97815
24
34.38872
−119.98047
25
34.38958
−119.98274
26
34.39053
−119.98497
27
34.39154
−119.98716
28
34.39263
−119.98928
29
34.39379
−119.99136
30
34.39491
−119.99319
31
34.39621
−119.99514
32
34.39713
−119.99731
33
34.39823
−119.99962
34
34.39930
−120.00168
35
34.40055
−120.00386
36
34.40107
−120.00625
37
34.40173
−120.00882
38
34.40261
−120.01178
39
34.40339
−120.01409
40
34.40425
−120.01636
41
34.40527
−120.01878
42
34.40628
−120.02094
43
34.40744
−120.02320
44
34.40752
−120.02641
45
34.40774
−120.02956
46
34.40806
−120.03246
47
34.40855
−120.03569
48
34.40907
−120.03855
49
34.40971
−120.04137
50
34.41040
−120.04394
51
34.41126
−120.04667
52
34.41100
−120.04870
53
34.41077
−120.05096
54
34.41062
−120.05323
55
34.41054
−120.05528
56
34.41052
−120.05733
57
34.41056
−120.05961
58
34.41068
−120.06188
59
34.41084
−120.06392
60
34.41046
−120.06679
61
34.41021
−120.06927
62
34.41004
−120.07175
63
34.40997
−120.07424
64
34.40990
−120.07984
65
34.41002
−120.08369
66
34.40991
−120.08666
67
34.40991
−120.08964
68
34.41011
−120.09353
69
34.41051
−120.09739
70
34.41088
−120.09987
71
34.41138
−120.10255
72
34.41203
−120.10677
73
34.41251
−120.10941
74
34.41331
−120.11288
75
34.41452
−120.11729
76
34.41509
−120.11919
77
34.41571
−120.12107
78
34.41639
−120.12292
79
34.41711
−120.12474
80
34.41802
−120.12733
81
34.41937
−120.13068
82
34.42030
−120.13314
83
34.42183
−120.13678
84
34.42266
−120.14015
85
34.42285
−120.14124
86
34.42227
−120.14365
87
34.42173
−120.14631
88
34.42126
−120.14922
89
34.42091
−120.15216
90
34.42039
−120.15458
91
34.41992
−120.15725
92
34.41942
−120.16108
93
34.41913
−120.16493
94
34.41904
−120.16857
95
34.41913
−120.17221
96
34.41941
−120.17583
97
34.41986
−120.17943
98
34.41968
−120.18174
99
34.41957
−120.18378
100
34.41952
−120.18583
101
34.41952
−120.18788
102
34.41961
−120.19038
103
34.41978
−120.19288
104
34.42001
−120.19513
105
34.42034
−120.19763
106
34.42014
−120.20103
107
34.42010
−120.20468
108
34.42062
−120.21923
109
34.41994
−120.22203
110
34.41933
−120.22509
111
34.41885
−120.22818
112
34.41849
−120.23141
113
34.41819
−120.23501
114
34.41806
−120.23821
115
34.41788
−120.24012
116
34.41768
−120.24279
117
34.41758
−120.24551
118
34.41758
−120.24801
119
34.41735
−120.25140
120
34.38689
−120.26775
121
34.33744
−120.32691
122
34.30480
−120.37560
123
34.27979
−120.41671
124
34.20486
−120.53987
125
34.18182
−120.60041
126
34.10208
−120.64208
127
34.07464
−120.73023
128
33.87643
−120.85081
129
33.82377
−1720.90550
130
33.83184
−121.21320
131
33.85137
−121.34958
132
33.91005
−121.40902
133
34.08467
−121.40925
134
34.16932
−121.49111
135
34.21050
−121.49220
136
34.26897
−121.49681
137
34.32128
−121.50604
138
34.37975
−121.51066
139
34.41821
−121.51681
140
34.45284
−121.52704
141
34.54049
−121.56178
142
34.57950
−121.57941
143
34.59446
−121.59010
144
34.64285
−121.62378
145
34.65978
−121.63763
146
34.67836
−121.65637
147
34.69012
−121.66652
148
34.70722
−121.68042
149
34.72486
−121.69538
150
34.74143
−121.70340
151
34.76227
−121.70500
152
34.78952
−121.69966
153
34.89914
−121.64260
154
35.01394
−121.58238
Note 1 to appendix A:
The coordinates in the table marked with an asterisk (*) are not a part of the sanctuary boundary. These coordinates are landward reference points used to draw a line segment that intersects with the shoreline.

# Appendix B to Subpart V of Part 922—Coordinates for Rodriguez Seamount Management Zone Within the Sanctuary
Coordinates listed in this table are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.
Point ID
Longitude
Latitude
1
−120.75816
34.02873
2
−120.85081
33.87643
3
−120.90550
33.82377
4
−121.21320
33.83184
5
−121.25782
33.83812
6
−121.25937
34.13926
7
−120.75892
34.14264
8
−120.75816
34.02873
Pt. 923

# PART 923—COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
923.1
Purpose and scope.
923.2
Definitions.
923.3
General requirements.

# Subpart B—Uses Subject to Management
923.10
General.
923.11
Uses subject to management.
923.12
Uses of regional benefit.
923.13
Energy facility planning process.

# Subpart C—Special Management Areas
923.20
General.
923.21
Areas of particular concern.
923.22
Areas for preservation or restoration.
923.23
Other areas of particular concern.
923.24
Shorefront access and protection planning.
923.25
Shoreline erosion/mitigation planning.

# Subpart D—Boundaries
923.30
General.
923.31
Inland boundary.
923.32
Lakeward or seaward boundary.
923.33
Excluded lands.
923.34
Interstate boundary.

# Subpart E—Authorities and Organization
923.40
General.
923.41
Identification of authorities.
923.42
State establishment of criteria and standards for local implementation—Technique A.
923.43
Direct State land and water use planning and regulation—Technique B.
923.44
State review on a case-by-case basis of actions affecting land and water uses subject to the management program—Technique C.
923.45
Air and water pollution control requirements.
923.46
Organizational structure.
923.47
Designated State agency.
923.48
Documentation.

# Subpart F—Coordination, Public Involvement and National Interest
923.50
General.
923.51
Federal-State consultation.
923.52
Consideration of the national interest in facilities.
923.53
Federal consistency procedures.
923.54
Mediation.
923.55
Full participation by State and local governments, interested parties, and the general public.
923.56
Plan coordination.
923.57
Continuing consultation.
923.58
Public hearings.

# Subpart G—Review/Approval Procedures
923.60
Review/approval procedures.

# Subpart H—Changes to Approved Management Programs
923.80
General.
923.81
Program change procedures, deadlines, public notice and comment, and application of approved changes.
923.82
Program change submissions.
923.83
Program change materials.
923.84
Program change decision criteria.
923.85
Procedural requirements of other Federal law.

# Subpart I—Applications for Program Development of Implementation Grants
923.90
General.
923.91
State responsibility.
923.92
Allocation.
923.93
Eligible implementation costs.
923.94
Application for program development or implementation grants.
923.95
Approval of applications.
923.96
Grant amendments.

# Subpart J—Allocation of Section 306 Program Administration Grants
923.110
Allocation formula.

# Subpart K—Coastal Zone Enhancement Grants Program
923.121
General.
923.122
Objectives.
923.123
Definitions.
923.124
Allocation of section 309 funds.
923.125
Criteria for section 309 project selection.
923.126
Pre-application procedures.
923.127
Formal application for financial assistance and application review and approval procedures.
923.128
Revisions to assessments and strategies.

# Subpart L—Review of Performance
923.131
General.
923.132
Definitions.
923.133
Procedure for conducting continuing reviews of approved State CZM programs.
923.134
Public participation.
923.135
Enforcement.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 6506; 42 U.S.C. 3334; Sections 923.92 and 923.94 are also issued under E.O. 12372, July 14, 1982, 3 CFR 1982 Comp. p. 197, as amended by E.O. 12416, April 8, 1983, 3 CFR 1983 Comp. p. 186.

# Source:
44 FR 18595, Mar. 28, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
61 FR 33805, June 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part set forth the requirements for State coastal management program approval by the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management pursuant to the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (hereafter, the Act); the grant application procedures for program funds; conditions under which grants may be terminated; and requirements for review of approved management programs.
(b) Sections 306 and 307 of the Act set forth requirements which must be fulfilled as a condition of program approval. The specifics of these requirements are set forth below under the following headings: General Requirements; Uses Subject to Management; Special Management Areas; Boundaries; Authorities and Organization; and Coordination, Public Involvement and National Interest. All relevant sections of the Act are dealt with under one of these groupings, but not necessarily in the order in which they appear in the Act.
(c) In summary, the requirements for program approval are that a State develop a management program that:
(1) Identifies and evaluates those coastal resources recognized in the Act as requiring management or protection by the State;
(2) Reexamines existing policies or develops new policies to manage these resources. These policies must be specific, comprehensive, and enforceable;
(3) Determines specific use and special geographic areas that are to be subject to the management program, based on the nature of identified coastal concerns;
(4) Identifies the inland and seaward areas subject to the management program;
(5) Provides for the consideration of the national interest in the planning for and siting of facilities that meet more than local requirements;
(6) Includes sufficient legal authorities and organizational arrangements to implement the program and to ensure conformance to it. In arriving at these elements of the management program, States are obliged to follow an open process which involves providing information to and considering the interests of the general public, special interest groups, local governments, and regional, State, interstate, and Federal agencies;
(7) Provides for public participation in permitting processes, consistency determinations, and other similar decisions;
(8) Provides a mechanism to ensure that all state agencies will adhere to the program; and
(9) Contains enforceable policies and mechanisms to implement the applicable requirements of the Coastal Nonpoint Pollution Control Program of the state required by section 6217 of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990.
§ 923.2
Definitions.
(a) The term
Act
means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended.
(b) The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Commerce and his/her designee.
(c) The term
Assistant Administrator
means the Assistant Administrator for
Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), or designee.
(d)(1) The term
relevant Federal agencies
means those Federal agencies with programs, activities, projects, regulatory, financing, or other assistance responsibilities in the following fields which could impact or affect a State's coastal zone:
(i) Energy production or transmission,
(ii) Recreation of a more than local nature,
(iii) Transportation,
(iv) Production of food and fiber,
(v) Preservation of life and property,
(vi) National defense,
(vii) Historic, cultural, aesthetic, and conservation values,
(viii) Mineral resources and extraction, and
(ix) Pollution abatement and control.
(2) The following are defined as relevant Federal agencies: Department of Agriculture; Department of Commerce; Department of Defense; Department of Education; Department of Energy; Department of Health and Human Services; Department of Housing and Urban Development; Department of the Interior; Department of Transportation; Environmental Protection Agency; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; General Services Administration, Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(e) The term
Federal agencies principally affected
means the same as “relevant Federal agencies.” The Assistant Administrator may include other agencies for purposes of reviewing the management program and environmental impact statement.
(f) The term
Coastal State
means a State of the United States in, or bordering on, the Atlantic, Pacific, or Arctic Ocean, the Gulf of Mexico, Long Island Sound, or one or more of the Great Lakes. Pursuant to section 304(3) of the Act, the term also includes Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa. Pursuant to section 703 of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, the term also includes the Northern Marianas.
(g) The term
management program
includes, but is not limited to, a comprehensive statement in words, maps, illustrations, or other media of communication, including an articulation of enforceable policies and citation of authorities providing this enforceability, prepared and adopted by the State in accordance with the provisions of this Act and this part, setting forth objectives, policies, and standards to guide public and private uses of lands and waters in the coastal zone.
(h) The following terms, as used in these regulations, have the same definition as provided in section 304 of the Act:
(1) Coastal zone;
(2) Coastal waters;
(3) Enforceable policy;
(4) Estuary;
(5) Land use; and
(6) Water use.
(i) The term
grant
means a financial assistance instrument and refers to both grants and cooperative agreements.
§ 923.3
General requirements.
(a) The management program must be developed and adopted in accordance with the requirements of the Act and this part, after notice, and the opportunity for full participation by relevant Federal and State agencies, local governments, regional organizations, port authorities, and other interested parties and persons, and be adequate to carry out the purposes of the Act and be consistent with the national policy set forth in section 303 of the Act.
(b) The management program must provide for the management of those land and water uses having a direct and significant impact on coastal waters and those geographic areas which are likely to be affected by or vulnerable to sea level rise. The program must include provisions to assure the appropriate protection of those significant resources and areas, such as wetlands, beaches and dunes, and barrier islands, that make the State's coastal zone a unique, vulnerable, or valuable area.
(c) The management program must contain a broad class of policies for each of the following areas: resource
protection, management of coastal development, and simplification of governmental processes. These three broad classes must include specific policies that provide the framework for the exercise of various management techniques and authorities governing coastal resources, uses, and areas. The three classes must include policies that address uses of or impacts on wetlands and floodplains within the State's coastal zone, and that minimize the destruction, loss or degradation of wetlands and preserve and enhance their natural values in accordance with the purposes of Executive Order 11990, pertaining to wetlands. These policies also must reduce risks of flood loss, minimize the impact of floods on human safety, health and welfare, and preserve the natural, beneficial values served by floodplains, in accordance with the purposes of Executive Order 11988, pertaining to floodplains.
(d) The policies in the program must be appropriate to the nature and degree of management needed for uses, areas, and resources identified as subject to the program.
(e) The policies, standards, objectives, criteria, and procedures by which program decisions will be made must provide:
(1) A clear understanding of the content of the program, especially in identifying who will be affected by the program and how, and
(2) A clear sense of direction and predictability for decisionmakers who must take actions pursuant to or consistent with the management program.

# Subpart B—Uses Subject to Management

# Source:
61 FR 33806, June 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.10
General.
This subpart sets forth the requirements for management program approvability with respect to land and water uses which, because of their direct and significant impacts on coastal waters or those geographic areas likely to be affected by or vulnerable to sea level rise, are subject to the terms of the management program. This subpart deals in full with the following subsections of the Act: 306(d)(1)(B), Uses Subject to the Management Program, 306(d)(2)(H), Energy Facility Planning, and 306(d)(12)(B), Uses of Regional Benefit.
§ 923.11
Uses subject to management.
(a)(1) The management program for each coastal state must include a definition of what shall constitute permissible land uses and water uses within the coastal zone which have a direct and significant impact on the coastal waters.
(2) The management program must identify those land and water uses that will be subject to the terms of the management program. These uses shall be those with direct and significant impacts on coastal waters or on geographic areas likely to be affected by or vulnerable to sea level rise.
(3) The management program must explain how those uses identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be managed. The management program must also contain those enforceable policies, legal authorities, performance standards or other techniques or procedures that will govern whether and how uses will be allowed, conditioned, modified, encouraged or prohibited.
(b) In identifying uses and their appropriate management, a State should analyze the quality, location, distribution and demand for the natural and man-made resources of their coastal zone, and should consider potential individual and cumulative impacts of uses on coastal waters.
(c) States should utilize the following types of analyses:
(1) Capability and suitability of resources to support existing or projected uses;
(2) Environmental impacts on coastal resources;
(3) Compatibility of various uses with adjacent uses or resources;
(4) Evaluation of inland and other location alternatives; and
(5) Water dependency of various uses and other social and economic considerations.
(d) Examination of the following factors is suggested:
(1) Air and water quality;
(2) Historic, cultural and esthetic resources where coastal development is likely to affect these resources;
(3) Open space or recreational uses of the shoreline where increased access to the shorefront is a particularly important concern;
(4) Floral and faunal communities where loss of living marine resources or threats to endangered or threatened coastal species are particularly important concerns.
(5) Information on the impacts of global warming and resultant sea level rise on natural resources such as beaches, dunes, estuaries, and wetlands, on salinization of drinking water supplies, and on properties, infrastructure and public works.
§ 923.12
Uses of regional benefit.
The management program must contain a method of assuring that local land use and water use regulations within the coastal zone do not unreasonably restrict or exclude land uses and water uses of regional benefit. To this end, the management program must:
(a) Identify what constitutes uses of regional benefit; and
(b) Identify and utilize any one or a combination of methods, consistent with the control techniques employed by the State, to assure local land and water use regulations do not unreasonably restrict or exclude uses of regional benefit.
[61 FR 33806, June 28, 1996; 61 FR 36965, July 15, 1996]
§ 923.13
Energy facility planning process.
The management program must contain a planning process for energy facilities likely to be located in or which may significantly affect, the coastal zone, including a process for anticipating the management of the impacts resulting from such facilities. (See subsection 304(5) of the Act.) This process must contain the following elements:
(a) Identification of energy facilities which are likely to locate in, or which may significantly affect, a State's coastal zone;
(b) Procedures for assessing the suitability of sites for such facilities designed to evaluate, to the extent practicable, the costs and benefits of proposed and alternative sites in terms of State and national interests as well as local concerns;
(c) Articulation and identification of enforceable State policies, authorities and techniques for managing energy facilities and their impacts; and
(d) Identification of how interested and affected public and private parties will be involved in the planning process.
[61 FR 33806, June 28, 1996; 61 FR 36965, July 15, 1996]

# Subpart C—Special Management Areas

# Source:
61 FR 33806, June 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.20
General.
(a) This subpart sets forth the requirements for management program approvability with respect to areas of particular concern because of their coastal-related values or characteristics, or because they may face pressures which require detailed attention beyond the general planning and regulatory system which is part of the management program. As a result, these areas require special management attention within the terms of the State's overall coastal program. This special management may include regulatory or permit requirements applicable only to the area of particular concern. It also may include increased intergovernmental coordination, technical, assistance, enhanced public expenditures, or additional public services and maintenance to a designated area. This subpart deals with the following subsections of the Act: 306(d)(2)(C)—Geographic Areas of Particular Concern; 306(d)(2)(E)—Guidelines on Priorities of Uses; 306(d)(2)(G)—Shorefront Access and protection Planning; 306(d)(2)(I)—Shoreline Erosion/Mitigation Planning; and 306(d)(9)—Areas for Preservation and Restoration.
(b) The importance of designating areas of particular concern for management purposes and the number and type of areas that should be designated is directly related to the degree of
comprehensive controls applied throughout a State's coastal zone. Where a State's general coastal management policies and authorities address state and national concerns comprehensively and are specific with respect to particular resources and uses, relatively less emphasis need be placed on designation of areas of particular concern. Where these policies are limited and non-specific, greater emphasis should be placed on areas of particular concern to assure effective management and an adequate degree of program specificity.
§ 923.21
Areas of particular concern.
(a) The management program must include an inventory and designation of areas of particular concern within the coastal zone, on a generic and/or site-specific basis, and broad guidelines on priorities of uses in particular areas, including specifically those uses of lowest priority.
(b) In developing criteria for inventorying and designating areas of particular concern. States must consider whether the following represent areas of concern requiring special management:
(1) Areas of unique, scarce, fragile or vulnerable natural habitat; unique or fragile, physical, figuration (as, for example, Niagara Falls); historical significance, cultural value or scenic importance (including resources on or determined to be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places.);
(2) Areas of high natural productivity or essential habitat for living resources, including fish, wildlife, and endangered species and the various trophic levels in the food web critical to their well-being;
(3) Areas of substantial recreational value and/or opportunity;
(4) Areas where developments and facilities are dependent upon the utilization of, or access to, coastal waters;
(5) Areas of unique hydrologic, geologic or topographic significance for industrial or commercial development or for dredge spoil disposal;
(6) Areas or urban concentration where shoreline utilization and water uses are highly competitive;
(7) Areas where, if development were permitted, it might be subject to significant hazard due to storms, slides, floods, erosion, settlement, salt water intrusion, and sea level rise;
(8) Areas needed to protect, maintain or replenish coastal lands or resources including coastal flood plains, aquifers and their recharge areas, estuaries, sand dunes, coral and other reefs, beaches, offshore sand deposits and mangrove stands.
(c) Where states will involve local governments, other state agencies, federal agencies and/or the public in the process of designating areas of particular concern, States must provide guidelines to those who will be involved in the designation process. These guidelines shall contain the purposes, criteria, and procedures for nominating areas of particular concern.
(d) In identifying areas of concern by location (if site specific) or category of coastal resources (if generic), the program must contain sufficient detail to enable affected landowners, governmental entities and the public to determine with reasonable certainty whether a given area is designated.
(e) In identifying areas of concern, the program must describe the nature of the concern and the basis on which designations were made.
(f) The management program must describe how the management program addresses and resolves the concerns for which areas are designated; and
(g) The management program must provide guidelines regarding priorities of uses in these areas, including guidelines on uses of lowest priority.
§ 923.22
Areas for preservation or restoration.
The management program must include procedures whereby specific areas may be designated for the purpose of preserving or restoring them for their conservation, recreational, ecological, historical or esthetic values, and the criteria for such designations.
§ 923.23
Other areas of particular concern.
(a) The management program may, but is not required to, designate specific areas known to require additional or special management, but for which additional management techniques
have not been developed or necessary authorities have not been established at the time of program approval. If a management program includes such designations, the basis for designation must be clearly stated, and a reasonable time frame and procedures must be set forth for developing and implementing appropriate management techniques. These procedures must provide for the development of those items required in § 923.21. The management program must identify an agency (or agencies) capable of formulating the necessary management policies and techniques.
(b) The management program must meet the requirements of § 923.22 for containing procedures for designating areas for preservation or restoration. The management program may include procedures and criteria for designating areas of particular concern for other than preservation or restoration purposes after program approval.
§ 923.24
Shorefront access and protection planning.
(a) The management program must include a definition of the term “beach” and a planning process for the protection of, and access to, public beaches and other public coastal areas of environmental, recreational, historical, esthetic, ecological or cultural value.
(b) The basic purpose in focusing special planning attention on shorefront access and protection is to provide public beaches and other public coastal areas of environmental, recreational, historic, esthetic, ecological or cultural value with special management attention within the purview of the State's management program. This special management attention may be achieved by designating public shorefront areas requiring additional access or protection as areas of particular concern pursuant to § 923.21 or areas for preservation or restoration pursuant to § 923.22.
(c) The management program must contain a procedure for assessing public beaches and other public areas, including State owned lands, tidelands and bottom lands, which require access or protection, and a description of appropriate types of access and protection.
(d) The management program must contain a definition of the term “beach” that is the broadest definition allowable under state law or constitutional provisions, and an identification of public areas meeting that definition.
(e) The management program must contain an identification and description of enforceable policies, legal authorities, funding program and other techniques that will be used to provide such shorefront access and protection that the State's planning process indicates is necessary.
§ 923.25
Shoreline erosion/mitigation planning.
(a) The management program must include a planning process for assessing the effects of, and studying and evaluating ways to control, or lessen the impact of, shoreline erosion, including potential impacts of sea level rise, and to restore areas adversely affected by such erosion. This planning process may be within the broader context of coastal hazard mitigation planning.
(b) The basic purpose in developing this planning process is to give special attention to erosion issues. This special management attention may be achieved by designating erosion areas as areas of particular concern pursuant to § 923.21 or as areas for preservation or restoration pursuant to § 923.22.
(c) The management program must include an identification and description of enforceable policies, legal authorities, funding techniques and other techniques that will be used to manage the effects of erosion, including potential impacts of sea level rise, as the state's planning process indicates is necessary.
[61 FR 33806, June 28, 1996; 61 FR 36965, July 15, 1996]

# Subpart D—Boundaries

# Source:
61 FR 33808, June 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.30
General.
This subpart sets forth the requirements for management program approvability with respect to boundaries
of the coastal zone. There are four elements to a State's boundary: the inland boundary, the seaward boundary, areas excluded from the boundary, and, in most cases, interstate boundaries. Specific requirements with respect to procedures for determining and identifying these boundary elements are discussed in the sections of this subpart that follow.
§ 923.31
Inland boundary.
(a) The inland boundary of a State's coastal zone must include:
(1) Those areas the management of which is necessary to control uses which have direct and significant impacts on coastal waters, or are likely to be affected by or vulnerable to sea level rise, pursuant to section 923.11 of these regulations.
(2) Those special management areas identified pursuant to § 923.21;
(3) Waters under saline influence—waters containing a significant quantity of seawater, as defined by and uniformly applied by the State;
(4) Salt marshes and wetlands—Areas subject to regular inundation of tidal salt (or Great Lakes) waters which contain marsh flora typical of the region;
(5) Beaches—The area affected by wave action directly from the sea. Examples are sandy beaches and rocky areas usually to the vegetation line;
(6) Transitional and intertidal areas-Areas subject to coastal storm surge, and areas containing vegetation that is salt tolerant and survives because of conditions associated with proximity to coastal waters. Transitional and intertidal areas also include dunes and rocky shores to the point of upland vegetation;
(7) Islands—Bodies of land surrounded by water on all sides. Islands must be included in their entirety, except when uses of interior portions of islands do not cause direct and significant impacts.
(8) The inland boundary must be presented in a manner that is clear and exact enough to permit determination of whether property or an activity is located within the management area. States must be able to advise interested parties whether they are subject to the terms of the management program within, at a maximum, 30 days of receipt of an inquiry. An inland coastal zone boundary defined in terms of political jurisdiction (e.g., county, township or municipal lines) cultural features (e.g., highways, railroads), planning areas (e.g., regional agency jurisdictions, census enumeration districts), or a uniform setback line is acceptable so long as it includes the areas indentified.
(b) The inland boundary of a State's coastal zone may include:
(1) Watersheds—A state may determine some uses within entire watersheds which have direct and significant impact on coastal waters or are likely to be affected by or vulnerable to sea level rise. In such cases it may be appropriate to define the coastal zone as including these watersheds.
(2) Areas of tidal influence that extend further inland than waters under saline influence; particularly in estuaries, deltas and rivers where uses inland could have direct and significant impacts on coastal waters or areas that are likely to be affected by or vulnerable to sea level rise.
(3) Indian lands not held in trust by the Federal Government.
(c) In many urban areas or where the shoreline has been modified extensively, natural system relationships between land and water may be extremely difficult, if not, impossible, to define in terms of direct and significant impacts. Two activities that States should consider as causing direct and significant impacts on coastal waters in urban areas are sewage discharges and urban runoff. In addition, States should consider dependency of uses on water access and visual relationships as factors appropriate for the determination of the inland boundary in highly urbanized areas.
§ 923.32
Lakeward or seaward boundary.
(a)(1) For states adjoining the Great Lakes, the lakeward boundary of the State's coastal zone is the international boundary with Canada or the boundaries with adjacent states. For states adjacent to the Atlantic or Pacific Ocean, or the Gulf of Mexico, the seaward boundary is the outer limit of state title and ownership under the Submerged Lands Act (48 U.S.C. 1301
et
seq.
), the Act of March 2, 1917 (48 U.S.C. 749), the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, as approved by the Act of March 24, 1976 (48 U.S.C. 1681 note) or section 1 of the Act of November 10, 1963, (48 U.S.C. 1705, as applicable).
(2) The requirement for defining the seaward boundary of a State's coastal zone can be met by a simple restatement of the limits defined in this section, unless there are water areas which require a more exact delineation because of site specific policies associated with these areas. Where States have site specific policies for particular water areas, these shall be mapped, described or referenced so that their location can be determined reasonably easily by any party affected by the policies.
(b) The seaward limits, as defined in this section, are for purposes of this program only and represent the area within which the State's management program may be authorized and financed. These limits are irrespective of any other claims States may have by virtue of other laws.
§ 923.33
Excluded lands.
(a) The boundary of a State's coastal zone must exclude lands owned, leased, held in trust or whose use is otherwise by law subject solely to the discretion of the Federal Government, its officers or agents. To meet this requirement, the program must describe, list or map lands or types of lands owned, leased, held in trust or otherwise used solely by Federal agencies.
(b) The exclusion of Federal lands does not remove Federal agencies from the obligation of complying with the consistency provisions of section 307 of the Act when Federal actions on these excluded lands have spillover impacts that affect any land or water use or natural resource of the coastal zone within the purview of a state's management program. In excluding Federal lands from a State's coastal zone for the purposes of this Act, a State does not impair any rights or authorities that it may have over Federal lands that exist separate from this program.
§ 923.34
Interstate boundary.
States must document that there has been consultation and coordination with adjoining coastal States regarding delineation of any adjacent inland and lateral seaward boundary.

# Subpart E—Authorities and Organization

# Source:
61 FR 33809, June 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.40
General.
(a) This subpart sets forth the requirements for management program approvability with respect to authorities and organization. The authorities and organizational structure on which a State will rely to administer its management program are the crucial underpinnings for enforcing the policies which guide the management of the uses and areas identified in its management program. There is a direct relationship between the adequacy of authorities and the adequacy of the overall program. The authorities need to be broad enough in both geographic scope and subject matter to ensure implementation of the State's enforceable policies. These enforceable policies must be sufficiently comprehensive and specific to regulate land and water uses, control development, and resolve conflicts among competing uses in order to assure wise use of the coastal zone. (Issues relating to the adequate scope of the program are dealt with in § 923.3.)
(b) The entity or entities which will exercise the program's authorities is a matter of State determination. They may be the state agency designated pursuant to section 306(d)(6) of the Act, other state agencies, regional or interstate bodies, and local governments. The major approval criterion is a determination that such entity or entities are required to exercise their authorities in conformance with the policies of the management program. Accordingly, the essential requirement is that the State demonstrate that there is a means of ensuring such compliance. This demonstration will be in the context of one or a combination of the three control techniques specified in
section 306(d)(11) of the Act. The requirements related to section 306(d)(12) of the Act are described in §§ 923.42 through 923.44 of this subchapter.
(c) In determining the adequacy of the authorities and organization of a state's programs, the Assistant Administrator will review and evaluate authorities and organizational arrangements in light of the requirements of this subpart and the finding of section 302(h) of the Act.
(d) The authorities requirements of the Act dealt with in this subpart are those contained in subsections 306(d)(2)(D)—Means of Control; 306(d)(10)-Authorities; 306(d)(10)(A)-Control Development and Resolve Conflicts; 306(d)(10)(B)-Powers of Acquisition; 306(d)(11)—Techniques of Control; and 307(f)—Air and Water Quality Control Requirements. The organization requirements of the Act dealt with in this subpart are those contained in sections 306(d)(2)(F)—Organizational Structure; 306(d)(6)—Designated State Agency; and 306(d)(7)—Organization.
§ 923.41
Identification of authorities.
(a)(1) The management program must identify the means by which the state proposes to exert control over the permissible land uses and water uses within the coastal zone which have a direct and significant impact on the coastal waters, including a listing of relevant state constitutional provisions, laws, regulations, and judicial decisions. These are the means by which the state will enforce its coastal management policies. (See section 304(6a) of the Act.)
(2) The state chosen agency or agencies (including local governments, area-wide agencies, regional agencies, or interstate agencies) must have the authority for the management of the coastal zone. Such authority includes the following powers:
(i) To administer land use and water use regulations to control development to ensure compliance with the management program, and to resolve conflicts among competing uses; and
(ii) To acquire fee simple and less than fee simple interests in land, waters, and other property through condemnation or other means when necessary to achieve conformance with the management program.
(b) In order to meet these requirements, the program must identify relevant state constitutional provisions, statutes, regulations, case law and such other legal instruments (including executive orders and interagency agreements) that will be used to carry out the state's management program, including the authorities pursuant to sections 306(d)(10) and 306(d)(11) of the Act which require a state to have the ability to:
(1) Administer land and water use regulations in conformance with the policies of the management program;
(2) Control such development as is necessary to ensure compliance with the management program;
(3) Resolve conflicts among competing uses; and
(4) Acquire appropriate interest in lands, waters or other property as necessary to achieve management objectives. Where acquisition will be a necessary technique for accomplishing particular program policies and objectives, the management program must indicate for what purpose acquisition will be used (
i.e.
, what policies or objectives will be accomplished); the type of acquisition (e.g., fee simple, purchase of easements, condemnation); and what agency (or agencies) of government have the authority for the specified type of acquisition.
§ 923.42
State establishment of criteria and standards for local implementation—Technique A.
(a) The management program must provide for any one or a combination of general techniques specified in subsection 306(d)(11) of the Act for control of land uses and water uses within the coastal zone. The first such control technique, at subsection 306(d)(11)(A) of the Act, is state establishment of criteria and standards for local implementation, subject to administrative review and enforcement (control technique A).
(b) There are 5 principal requirements that control technique A must embody in order to be approved:
(1) The State must have developed and have in effect at the time of program approval enforceable policies
that meet the requirements of § 923.3. These policies must serve as the standards and criteria for local program development or the State must have separate standards and criteria, related to these enforceable policies, that will guide local program development.
(2) During the period while local programs are being developed, a State must have sufficient authority to assure that land and water use decisions subject to the management program will comply with the program's enforceable policies. The adequacy of these authorities will be judged on the same basis as specified for direct State controls or case-by-case reviews.
(3) A State must be able to ensure that coastal programs will be developed pursuant to the State's standards and criteria, or failing this, that the management program can be implemented directly by the State. This requirement can be met if a State can exercise any one of the following techniques:
(i) Direct State enforcement of its standards and criteria in which case a State would need to meet the requirements of this section which address the direct State control technique;
(ii) Preparation of a local program by a State agency which the local government then would implement. To use this technique the State must have statutory authority to prepare and adopt a program for a local government, and a mechanism by which the State can cause the local government to enforce the State-created program. Where the mechanism to assure local enforcement will be judicial relief, the program must include the authority under which judicial relief can be sought;
(iii) State preparation and enforcement of a program on behalf of a local government. Here the State must have the authority to:
(A) Prepare and adopt a plan, regulations, and ordinances for the local government and
(B) Enforce such plans, regulations and ordinances;
(iv) State review of local government actions on a case-by-case basis or on appeal, and prevention of actions inconsistent with the standards and criteria. Under this technique, when a local government fails to adopt an approvable program, the State must have the ability to review activities in the coastal zone subject to the management program and the power to prohibit, modify or condition those activities based on the policies, standards and criteria of the management program; or
(v) If a locality fails to adopt a management program, the State may utilize a procedure whereby the responsibility for preparing a program shifts to an intermediate level government, such as a county. If this intermediate level of government fails to produce a program, then the State must have the ability to take one of the actions described above. This alternative cannot be used where the intermediate level of government lacks the legal authority to adopt and implement regulations necessary to implement State policies, standards and criteria.
(4) A State must have a procedure whereby it reviews and certifies the local program's compliance with State standards and criteria. This procedure must include provisions for:
(i) Opportunity for the public and governmental entities (including Federal agencies) to participate in the development of local programs; and
(ii) Opportunity for the public and governmental entities (including Federal agencies) to make their views known (through public hearings or other means) to the State agency prior to approval of local programs; and
(iii) Review by the State of the adequacy of local programs consideration of facilities identified in a State's management program in which there is a national interest.
(5) A State must be able to assure implementation and enforcement of a local program once approved. To accomplish this a State must:
(i) Establish a monitoring system which defines what constitutes and detects patterns of non-compliance. In the case of uses of regional benefit and facilities in which there is a national interest, the monitoring system must be capable of detecting single instances of local actions affecting such uses or facilities in a manner contrary to the management program.
(ii) Be capable of assuring compliance when a pattern of deviation is detected or when a facility involving identified national interests or a use of regional benefit is affected in a manner contrary to the program's policies. When State action is required because of failure by a local government to enforce its program, the State must be able to do one or a combination of the following:
(A) Directly enforce the entire local program;
(B) Directly enforce that portion of the local program that is being enforced improperly. State intervention would be necessary only in those local government activities that are violating the policies, standards or criteria.
(C) Seek judicial relief against local government for failure to properly enforce;
(D) Review local government actions on a case-by-case basis or on appeal and have the power to prevent those actions inconsistent with the policies and standards.
(E) Provide a procedure whereby the responsibility for enforcing a program shifts to an intermediate level of government, assuming statutory authority exists to enable the immediate of government to assume this responsibility.
§ 923.43
Direct State land and water use planning and regulation—Technique B.
(a) The management program must provide for any one or a combination of general techniques specified in subsection 306(d)(11) of the Act for control of land and water uses within the coastal zone. The second such control technique, at subsection 306(d)(11)(B) of the Act, is direct state land and water use planning and regulation (control technique B).
(b) To have control technique B approved, the State must have the requisite direct authority to plan and regulate land and water uses subject to the management program. This authority can take the form of:
(1) Comprehensive legislation—A single piece of comprehensive legislation specific to coastal management and the requirements of this Act.
(2) Networking—The utilization of authorities which are compatible with and applied on the basis of coastal management policies developed pursuant to § 923.3.
(c) In order to apply the networking concept, the State must:
(1) Demonstrate that, taken together, existing authorities can and will be used to implement the full range of policies and management techniques identified as necessary for coastal management purposes; and
(2) Bind each party which exercises statutory authority that is part of the management program to conformance with relevant enforceable policies and management techniques. Parties may be bound to conformance through an executive order, administrative directive or a memorandum of understanding provided that:
(i) The management program authorities provide grounds for taking action to ensure compliance of networked agencies with the program. It will be sufficient if any of the following can act to ensure compliance: The State agency designated pursuant to subsection 306(d)(6) of the Act, the State's Attorney General, another State agency, a local government, or a citizen.
(ii) The executive order, administrative directive or memorandum of understanding establishes conformance requirements of other State agency activities or authorities to management program policies. A gubernatorial executive order will be acceptable if networked State agency heads are directly responsible to the Governor.
(3) Where networked State agencies can enforce the management program policies at the time of section 306 approval without first having to revise their operating rules and regulations, then any proposed revisions to such rules and regulations which would enhance or facilitate implementation need not be accomplished prior to program approval. Where State agencies cannot enforce coastal policies without first revising their rules and regulations, then these revisions must be made prior to approval of the State's program by the Assistant Administrator.
§ 923.44
State review on a case-by-case basis of actions affecting land and water uses subject to the management program—Technique C.
(a) The management program must provide for any one or a combination of general techniques specified in subsection 306(d)(11) of the Act for control of land and water uses within the coastal zone. The third such control technique, at subsection 306(d)(11)(C) of the Act, is state administrative review for consistency with the management program of all development plans, projects, or land and water use regulations, including exceptions and variances thereto, proposed by any state or local authority or private developer, with power to approve or disapprove after public notice and an opportunity for hearings (control technique C).
(b) Under case-by-case review, States have the power to review individual development plans, projects or land and water use regulations (including variances and exceptions thereto) proposed by any State or local authority or private developer which have been identified in the management program as being subject to review for consistency with the management program. This control technique requires the greatest degree of policy specificity because compliance with the program will not require any prior actions on the part of anyone affected by the program. Specificity also is needed to avoid challenges that decisions (made pursuant to the management program) are unfounded, arbitrary or capricious.
(c) To have control technique C approved, a State must:
(1) Identify the plans, projects or regulations subject to review, based on their significance in terms of impacts on coastal resources, potential for incompatibility with the State's coastal management program, and having greater than local significance;
(2) Identify the State agency that will conduct this review;
(3) Include the criteria by which identified plans, projects and regulations will be approved or disapproved;
(4) Have the power to approve or disapprove identified plans, projects or regulations that are inconsistent with the management program, or the power to seek court review thereof; and
(5) Provide public notice of reviews and the opportunity for public hearing prior to rendering a decision on each case-by-case review.
§ 923.45
Air and water pollution control requirements.
The program must incorporate, by reference or otherwise, all requirements established by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (Clean Water Act or CWA), or the Clean Air Act, as amended (CAA), or established by the Federal Government or by any state or local government pursuant to such Acts. Such requirements must be the water pollution control and air pollution control requirements applicable to such program. Incorporation of the air and water quality requirements pursuant to the CWA and CAA should involve their consideration during program development, especially with respect to use determinations and designation of areas for special management. In addition, this incorporation will prove to be more meaningful if close coordination and working relationships between the State agency and the air and water quality agencies are developed and maintained throughout the program development process and after program approval.
§ 923.46
Organizational structure.
The State must be organized to implement the management program. The management program must describe the organizational structure that will be used to implement and administer the management program including a discussion of those state and other agencies, including local governments, that will have responsibility for administering, enforcing and/or monitoring those authorities or techniques required pursuant to the following subsections of the Act: 306(d)(3)(B); 306(d)(10); 306(d)(10) (A) and (B); 306(d) (11) and (12); and 307(f). The management program must also describe the relationship of these administering agencies to the state agency designated pursuant to subsection 306(d)(6) of the Act.
§ 923.47
Designated State agency.
(a) For program approval, the Governor of the state must designate a single state agency to receive and administer the grants for implementing the management program.
(1) This entity must have the fiscal and legal capability to accept and administer grant funds, to make contracts or other arrangements (such as passthrough grants) with participating agencies for the purpose of carrying out specific management tasks and to account for the expenditure of the implementation funds of any recipient of such monies, and
(2) This entity must have the administrative capability to monitor and evaluate the management of the State's coastal resources by the various agencies and/or local governments with specified responsibilities under the management program (irrespective of whether such entities receive section 306 funds); to make periodic reports to the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM), the Governor, or the State legislature, as appropriate, regarding the performance of all agencies involved in the program. The entity also must be capable of presenting evidence of adherence to the management program or justification for deviation as part of the review by OCRM of State performance required by section 312 of the Act.
(b)(1) The 306 agency designation is designed to establish a single point of accountability for prudent use of administrative funds in the furtherance of the management and for monitoring of management activities. Designation does not imply that this single agency need be a “super agency” or the principal implementation vehicle. It is, however, the focal point for proper administration and evaluation of the State's program and the entity to which OCRM will look when monitoring and reevaluating a State's program during program implementation.
(2) The requirement for the single designated agency should not be viewed as confining or otherwise limiting the role and responsibilities which may be assigned to this agency. It is up to the State to decide in what manner and to what extent the designated State agency will be involved in actual program implementation or enforcement. In determining the extent to which this agency should be involved in program implementation or enforcement, specific factors should be considered, such as the manner in which local and regional authorities are involved in program implementation, the administrative structure of the State, the authorities to be relied upon and the agencies administering such authorities. Because the designated State agency may be viewed as the best vehicle for increasing the unity and efficiency of a management program, the State may want to consider the following in selecting which agency to designate:
(i) Whether the designated State entity has a legislative mandate to coordinate other State or local programs, plans and/or policies within the coastal zone;
(ii) To what extent linkages already exist between the entity, other agencies, and local governments;
(iii) To what extent management or regulatory authorities affecting the coastal zone presently are administered by the agency; and
(iv) Whether the agency is equipped to handle monitoring, evaluation and enforcement responsibilities.
§ 923.48
Documentation.
A transmittal letter signed by the Governor is required for the submission of a management program for federal approval. The letter must state that the Governor:
(a) Has reviewed and approved as State policy, the management program, and any changes thereto, submitted for the approval of the Assistant Administrator.
(b) Has designated a single State agency to receive and administer implementation grants;
(c) Attests to the fact that the State has the authorities necessary to implement the management program; and
(d) Attests to the fact that the State is organized to implement the management program.

# Subpart F—Coordination, Public Involvement and National Interest

# Source:
61 FR 33812, June 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.50
General.
(a) Coordination with governmental agencies having interests and responsibilities affecting the coastal zone, and involvement of interest groups as well as the general public is essential to the development and administration of State coastal management programs. The coordination requirements of this subpart are intended to achieve a proper balancing of diverse interests in the coastal zone. The policies of section 303 of the Act require that there be a balancing of variety, sometimes conflicting, interests, including:
(1) The preservation, protection, development and, where possible, the restoration or enhancement of coastal resources;
(2) The achievement of wise use of coastal land and water resources with full consideration for ecological, cultural, historic, and aesthetic values and needs for compatible economic development;
(3) The involvement of the public, of Federal, state and local governments and of regional agencies in the development and implementation of coastal management programs;
(4) The management of coastal development to improve, safeguard, and restore coastal water quality; and
(5) The study and development of plans for addressing the adverse effects of coastal hazards, including erosion, flooding, land subsidence and sea level rise.
(b) In order to be meaningful, coordination with and participation by various units and levels of government including regional commissions, interest groups, and the general public should begin early in the process of program development and should continue throughout on a timely basis to assure that such efforts will result in substantive inputs into a State's management program. State efforts should be devoted not only to obtaining information necessary for developing the management program but also to obtaining reactions and recommendations regarding the content of the management program and to responding to concerns by interested parties. The requirements for intergovernmental cooperation and public participation continue after program approval.
(c) This subpart deals with requirements for coordination with governmental entities, interest groups and the general public to assure that their interests are fully expressed and considered during the program development process and that procedures are created to insure continued consideration of their views during program implementation. In addition, this subpart deals with mediation procedures for serious disagreements between States and Federal agencies that occur during program development and implementation. This subpart addresses the requirements of the following subsections of the Act: 306(d)(1)—Opportunity for Full Participation; 306(d)(3)(A)—Plan Coordination; 306(d)(3)(B)—Continued State-Local Consultation; 306(d)(4)—Public Hearings; 306(d)(8)—Consideration of the National Interest in Facilities; 307(b)—Federal Consultation; and 307(h)—Mediation.
§ 923.51
Federal-State consultation.
(a) The management program must be developed and adopted with the opportunity of full participation by relevant Federal agencies and with adequate consideration of the views of Federal agencies principally affected by such program.
(b) By providing relevant Federal agencies with the opportunity for full participation during program development and for adequately considering the views of such agencies, States can effectuate the Federal consistency provisions of subsections 307 (c) and (d) of the Act once their programs are approved. (See 15 CFR part 930 for a full discussion of the Federal consistency provisions of the Act.)
(c) In addition to the consideration of relevant Federal agency views required during program development, Federal agencies have the opportunity to provide further comment during the program review and approval process. (See subpart G for details on this process.)
Moreover, in the event of a serious disagreement between a relevant Federal agency and designated State agency during program development or during program implementation, the mediation provisions of subsection 307(h) of the Act are available. (See § 923.54 for details on mediation.)
(d) In order to provide an opportunity for participation by relevant Federal agencies and give adequate consideration to their views, each state must:
(1) Contact each relevant Federal Agency listed in § 923.2(d) and such other Federal agencies as may be relevant, owing to a State's particular circumstances, early in the development of its management program. The purpose of such contact is to develop mutual arrangements or understandings regarding that agency's participation during program development;
(2) Provide for Federal agency input on a timely basis as the program is developed. Such input shall be related both to information required to develop the management program and to evaluation of and recommendations concerning various elements of the management program;
(3) Solicit statements from the head of Federal agencies identified in Table 1 of § 923.52(c)(1) as to their interpretation of the national interest in the planning for and siting of facilities which are more than local in nature;
(4) Summarize the nature, frequency, and timing of contacts with relevant Federal agencies;
(5) Evaluate Federal comments received during the program development process and, where appropriate in the opinion of the State, accommodate the substance of pertinent comments in the management program. States must consider and evaluate relevant Federal agency views or comments about the following:
(i) Management of coastal resources for preservation, conservation, development, enhancement or restoration purposes;
(ii) Statements of the national interest in the planning for or siting of facilities which are more than local in nature;
(iii) Uses which are subject to the management program;
(iv) Areas which are of particular concern to the management program;
(v) Boundary determinations;
(vi) Shorefront access and protecting planning, energy facility planning and erosion planning processes; and
(vii) Federally developed or assisted plans that must be coordinated with the management program pursuant to subsection 306(d)(3) of the Act.
(6) Indicate the nature of major comments by Federal agencies provided during program development (either by including copies of comments or by summarizing comments) and discuss any major differences or conflicts between the management program and Federal views that have not been resolved at the time of program submission.
§ 923.52
Consideration of the national interest in facilities.
(a) The management program must provide for adequate consideration of the national interest involved in planning for, and managing the coastal zone, including the siting of facilities such as energy facilities which are of greater than local significance. In the case of energy facilities, the State must have considered any applicable national or interstate energy plan or program.
(b) The primary purpose of this requirement is to assure adequate consideration by States of the national interest involved in the planning for and siting of facilities (which are necessary to meet other than local requirements) during:
(1) The development of the State's management program,
(2) The review and approval of the program by the Assistant Administrator, and
(3) The implementation of the program as such facilities are proposed.
(c) In order to fulfill this requirement, States must:
(1) Describe the national interest in the planning for and siting of facilities considered during program development.
(2) Indicate the sources relied upon for a description of the national interest in the planning for and siting of the facilities.
(3) Indicate how and where the consideration of the national interest is reflected in the substance of the management program. In the case of energy facilities in which there is a national interest, the program must indicate the consideration given any national or interstate energy plans or programs which are applicable to or affect a state's coastal zone.
(4) Describe the process for continued consideration of the national interest in the planning for and siting of facilities during program implementation, including a clear and detailed description of the administrative procedures and decisions points where such interest will be considered.
§ 923.53
Federal consistency procedures.
(a) A State must include in its management program submission, as part of the body of the submission an appendix or an attachment, the procedures it will use to implement the Federal consistency requirements of subsections 307 (c) and (d) of the Act. At a minimum, the following must be included:
(1) An indication of whether the state agency designated pursuant to subsection 306(d)(6) of the Act or a single other agency will handle consistency review (see 15 CFR 930.18);
(2) A list of Federal license and permit activities that will be subject to review (see 15 CFR 930.53);
(3) For States anticipating coastal zone effects from Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) activities, the license and permit list also must include OCS plans which describe in detail Federal license and permit activities (see 15 CFR 930.74); and
(4) The public notice procedures to be used for certifications submitted for Federal License and permit activities and, where appropriate, for OCS plans (see 15 CFR 930.61 through 930.62 and 930.78).
(b) Beyond the minimum requirements contained in paragraph (a) of this section, States have the option of including:
(1) A list of Federal activities, including development projects, which in the opinion of the State agency are likely to significantly affect the coastal zone and thereby will require a Federal agency consistency determination (see 15 CFR 930.35); and
(2) A description of the types of information and data necessary to assess the consistency of Federal license and permit activities and, where appropriate, those described in detail in OCS plans (see 15 CFR 930.56 and 930.75).
§ 923.54
Mediation.
(a) Section 307(h) of the Act provides for mediation of serious disagreement between any Federal agency and a coastal state in the development and implementation of a management program. In certain cases, mediation by the Secretary, with the assistance of the Executive Office of the President, may be an appropriate forum for conflict resolution.
(b) State-Federal differences should be addressed initially by the parties involved. Whenever a serious disagreement cannot be resolved between the parties concerned, either party may request the informal assistance of the Assistant Administrator in resolving the disagreement. This request shall be in writing, stating the points of disagreement and the reason therefore. A copy of the request shall be sent to the other party to the disagreement.
(c) If a serious disagreement persists, the Secretary or other head of a relevant Federal agency, or the Governor or the head of the state agency designated by the Governor as administratively responsible for program development (if a state still is receiving section 305 program development grants) or for program implementation (if a state is receiving section 306 program implementation grants) may notify the Secretary in writing of the existence of a serious disagreement, and may request that the Secretary seek to mediate the serious disagreement. A copy of the written request must be sent to the agency with which the requesting agency disagrees and to the Assistant Administrator.
(d) Secretarial mediation efforts shall last only so long as the parties agree to participate. The Secretary shall confer with the Executive Office of the President, as necessary, during the mediation process.
(e) Mediation shall terminate:
(1) At any time the parties agree to a resolution of the serious disagreement,
(2) If one of the parties withdraws from mediation,
(3) In the event the parties fail to reach a resolution of the serious disagreement within 15 days following Secretarial mediation efforts, and the parties do not agree to extend mediation beyond that period, or
(4) For other good cause.
(f) The availability of the mediation services provided in this section is not intended expressly or implicitly to limit the parties' use of alternate forums to resolve disputes. Specifically, judicial review where otherwise available by law may be sought by any party to a serious disagreement without first having exhausted the mediation process provided herein.
§ 923.55
Full participation by State and local governments, interested parties, and the general public.
The management program must be developed and adopted with the opportunity of full participation by state agencies, local governments, regional commissions and organizations, port authorities, and other interested public and private parties. To meet this requirement, a State must:
(a) Develop and make available general information regarding the program design, its content and its status throughout program development;
(b) Provide a listing, as comprehensive as possible, of all governmental agencies, regional organizations, port authorities and public and private organizations likely to be affected by or to have a direct interest in the development and implementation of the management program;
(c) Indicate the nature of major comments received from interested or affected parties, identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the nature of the State's response to these comments; and
(d) Hold public meetings, workshops, etc., during the course of program development at accessible locations and convenient times, with reasonable notice and availability of materials.
§ 923.56
Plan coordination.
(a) The management program must be coordinated with local, areawide, and interstate plans applicable to areas within the coastal zone—
(1) Existing on January 1 of the year in which the state's management program is submitted to the Secretary; and
(2) Which have been developed by a local government, an areawide agency, a regional agency, or an interstate agency.
(b) A State must insure that the contents of its management program has been coordinated with local, areawide and interstate plans applicable to areas within the coastal zone existing on January 1 of the year in which the State's management program is submitted to the Assistant Administrator for approval. To document this coordination, the management program must:
(1) Identify local governments, areawide agencies and regional or interstate agencies which have plans affecting the coastal zone in effect on January 1 of the year in which the management program is submitted;
(2) List or provide a summary of contacts with these entities for the purpose of coordinating the management program with plans adopted by a governmental entity as of January 1 of the year in which the management program is submitted. At a minimum, the following plans, affecting a State coastal zone, shall be reviewed: Land use plans prepared pursuant to section 701 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended; State and areawide waste treatment facility or management plans prepared pursuant to sections 201 and 208 of the Clean Water Act, as amended; plans and designations made pursuant to the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended; hazard mitigation plans prepared pursuant to section 409 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act; any applicable interstate energy plans or programs developed pursuant to section 309 of the Act; regional and interstate highway plans; plans developed by Regional Action Planning Commission; and fishery
management plans developed pursuant to the Fisheries Conservation and Management Act.
(3) Identify conflicts with those plans of a regulatory nature that are unresolved at the time of program submission and the means that can be used to resolve these conflicts.
§ 923.57
Continuing consultation.
(a) As required by subsection 306(d)(3)(B) of the Act, a State must establish an effective mechanism for continuing consultation and coordination between the management agency designated pursuant to paragraph (6) of section 306(d) of the Act and with local governments, interstate agencies, regional agencies, and areawide agencies within the coastal zone to assure the full participation of those local governments and agencies in carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(b) The management program must establish a procedure whereby local governments with zoning authority are notified of State management program decisions which would conflict with any local zoning ordinance decision.
(1) “Management program decision” refers to any major, discretionary policy decisions on the part of a management agency, such as the determination of permissible land and water uses, the designation of areas or particular concern or areas for preservation or restoration, or the decision to acquire property for public uses. Regulatory actions which are taken pursuant to these major decisions are not subject to the State-local consultation mechanisms. A State management program decision is in conflict with a local zoning ordinance if the decision is contradictory to that ordinance. A State management program decision that consists of additional but not contradictory requirements is not in conflict with a local zoning ordinance, decision or other action;
(2) “Local government” refers to these defined in section 304(11) of the Act which have some form of zoning authority.
(3) “Local zoning ordinance, decision or other action” refers to any local government land or water use action which regulates or restricts the construction, alteration of use of land, water or structures thereon or thereunder. These actions include zoning ordinances, master plans and official maps. A local government has the right to comment on a State management program decision when such decision conflicts with the above specified actions;
(4) Notification must be in writing and must inform the local government of its right to submit comments to the State management agency in the event the proposed State management program decision conflicts with a local zoning ordinance, decision or other action. The effect of providing such notice is to stay State action to implement its management decision for at least a 30-day period unless the local government waives its right to comment.
(5) “Waiver” of the right of local government to comment (thereby permitting a State agency to proceed immediately with implementation of the management program decision) shall result:
(i) Following State agency receipt of a written statement from a local government indicating that it either:
(A) Waives its right to comment; or
(B) Concurs with the management program decision; or
(C) Intends to take action which conflicts or interferes with the management program decision; or
(ii) Following a public statement by a local government to the same effect as paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section; or
(iii) Following an action by a local government that conflicts or interferes with the management program decision.
(6) The management program shall include procedures to be followed by a management agency in considering a local government's comments. These procedures shall include, at a minimum, circumstances under which the agency will exercise its discretion to hold a public hearing. Where public hearings will be held, the program must set forth notice and other hearing procedures that will be followed. Following State agency consideration of local comments (when a discretionary public hearing is not held) or following public hearing, the management agency shall provide a written response to
the affected local government, affected local government, within a reasonable period of time and prior to implementation of the management program decision, on the results of the agency's consideration of public comments.
§ 923.58
Public hearings.
The management program must be developed and adopted after the holding of public hearings. A State must:
(a) Hold a minimum of two public hearings during the course of program development, at least one of which will be on the total scope of the coastal management program. Hearings on the total management program do not have to be held on the actual document submitted to the Assistant Administrator for section 306 approval. However, such hearing(s) must cover the substance and content of the proposed management program in such a manner that the general public, and particularly affected parties, have a reasonable opportunity to understand the impacts of the management program. If the hearing(s) are not on the management document per se, all requests for such document must be honored and comments on the document received prior to submission of the document to the Assistant Administrator must be considered;
(b) Provide a minimum of 30 days public notice of hearing dates and locations;
(c) Make available for public review, at the time of public notice, all agency materials pertinent to the hearings; and
(d) Include a transcript or summary of the public hearing(s) with the State's program document or submit same within thirty (30) days following submittal of the program to the Assistant Administrator. At the same time this transcript or summary is submitted to the Assistant Administrator, it must be made available, upon request, to the public.

# Subpart G—Review/Approval Procedures

# Source:
61 FR 33815, June 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.60
Review/approval procedures.
(a) All state management program submissions must contain an environmental assessment at the time of submission of the management program to OCRM for threshold review. In accordance with regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, OCRM will assist the State by outlining the types of information required. (See 40 CFR § 1506.5 (a) and (b).)
(b) Upon submission by a State of its draft management program, OCRM will determine if it adequately meets the requirements of the Act and this part. Assuming positive findings are made and major revisions to the State's draft management program are not required, OCRM will prepare draft and final environmental impact statements, in accordance with National Environmental Policy Act requirements. Because the review process involves preparation and dissemination of draft and final environmental impact statements and lengthy Federal agency review; states should anticipate that it will take at least 7 months between the time a state first submits a draft management program to OCRM for threshold review and the point at which the Assistant Administrator makes a final decision on whether to approve the management program. Certain factors will contribute to lengthening or shortening this time table; these factors are discussed in OCRM guidance on the review/approval process. The OCRM guidance also recommends a format for the program document submitted to the Assistant Administrator for review and approval.

# Subpart H—Changes to Approved Management Programs

# Source:
84 FR 38131, Aug. 6, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.80
General.
(a) This subpart establishes the criteria and procedures by which any proposed change to approved management programs shall be made. The term “program change” includes all terms used in section 306(e) of the Act, including amendment, modification or
other program change. Draft program changes submitted to NOAA for informal review and comment are not subject to these requirements. Unless otherwise specified, the term “NOAA” refers to the Office for Coastal Management, within NOAA's National Ocean Service. (The Office for Coastal Management was formerly known as the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management and the Coastal Services Center.)
(b) Pursuant to section 306(e) of the Act, a coastal state may not implement any change to a management program as part of its management program unless the state submits, and NOAA approves, the change for incorporation into the state's federally-approved management program. A state shall not use a state or local government policy or requirement as an “enforceable policy” under 16 U.S.C. 1453(6a) and § 930.11(h) of this subchapter for purposes of Federal consistency under 16 U.S.C. 1456 and part 930 of this subchapter, unless NOAA has approved the incorporation of, and subsequent changes to, the state or local policy into the state's management program under this subpart. State or local government law not approved by NOAA as part of a state's management program remain legal requirements for state and local government purposes, but not for CZMA Federal consistency purposes.
(c) For purposes of this subpart, program changes include changes to enforceable policies as well as changes to one or more of the following management program areas under part 923: Uses Subject to Management (Subpart B); Special Management Areas (Subpart C); Boundaries (Subpart D); Authorities and Organization (Subpart E); and Coordination, Public Involvement and National Interest (Subpart F).
(d) The phrase “enforceable policies” used in this subpart is described in 16 U.S.C. 1453(6a) and § 930.11(h) of this subchapter. Enforceable policies are the only policies states can use to determine whether a Federal action is consistent with its management program under section 307, the Federal Consistency provision, of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1456 and part 930 of this subchapter).
(e) Pursuant to section 306(e)(1) of the Act and § 923.135, NOAA may suspend all or part of any grant or cooperative agreement made under section 306 of the Act if the state has failed to submit a program change identified as a necessary action under section 312 of the Act and part 923, subpart L (Review of Performance) and pursuant to the requirements for NOAA to notify the Governor of a state under the enforcement provisions of § 923.135.
§ 923.81
Program change procedures, deadlines, public notice and comment, and application of approved changes.
(a) Pursuant to section 306(d)(6) of the Act and § 930.11(o) of this subchapter, all program changes shall be submitted to NOAA by: The Governor of a coastal state with an approved management program; the head of the single state agency designated under the management program to be the lead state agency for administering the CZMA; or the head of an office within the designated single state agency if the state has authorized that person to submit program changes. Program changes may be submitted to NOAA on a cyclical basis (e.g., quarterly, twice a year, annually) or as the changes occur.
(1) One (1) copy shall be submitted electronically using the Program Change Form on NOAA's Program Change website,
http://coast.noaa.gov/czmprogramchange
.
(i) If a state is not able to electronically send all or part of a program change to NOAA through NOAA's Program Change website, the state and NOAA shall agree to an alternative method (e.g., email, electronic CD, or a state website). In such instances, NOAA will, to the extent practicable, post the program change to NOAA's Program Change website.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) All deadlines and timeframes under this subpart shall start on the first full business day after the day NOAA receives a program change (Day 1). For example, if a submission is received on a Thursday, day one of NOAA's review period would be Friday; if the day of receipt is Friday and Monday is a Federal holiday, Day 1 would
be Tuesday. All days, starting with Day 1, are included in the calculation of total time for a deadline, including weekends and Federal holidays, except for the last day (e.g., Day 30 or Day 120). The day that NOAA's decision is due shall also end on a full business day. For example, if Day 30 is a Saturday, then NOAA's decision will be due the next Monday, or if Monday is a Federal holiday, on Tuesday. A state may request that NOAA's review period begin on a specified date following receipt by NOAA.
(b) Within 5 days of receipt of a program change submission, NOAA shall notify the state (via email or letter) of the date the program change was received and NOAA's expected decision deadline. NOAA will also notify the state within 10 days of receipt of a program change submission if NOAA determines the submission is incomplete. If NOAA determines a submission is incomplete, NOAA shall inform the state that the program change review timeline shall not start until the missing information is submitted. During NOAA's review of a program change request, NOAA may request additional information that NOAA needs to make its decision.
(c) NOAA's program change review period shall start on Day 1 pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, unless NOAA determines the submission is incomplete pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. NOAA shall respond to the state (via email or letter) within 30 calendar days after the date NOAA receives a program change. NOAA's approval is presumed if NOAA does not respond or extend its review period within the 30-day period. NOAA may extend its review period up to 120 days after receipt of a program change request, if NOAA so notifies the state during the 30-day period. NOAA can extend beyond 120 days only as necessary to meet the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
). NOAA shall inform the state via email or letter whether NOAA approves, approves in part, approves with qualifications or denies the incorporation of the program change into the state's management program.
(d) States shall, to the extent practicable, consult with NOAA prior to state adoption of new or revised state laws, policies, regulations, and other changes the state intends to submit to NOAA as a program change. States are encouraged to submit draft program changes to NOAA for informal review and comment prior to submitting a program change. If consulted, NOAA shall review draft submissions to identify issues that would need to be addressed in the formal submission.
(e)(1) A state shall post a public notice of its program change on the state's management program website in a conspicuous manner, and email or mail the public notice to local and regional offices of relevant Federal agencies, Federal agency CZMA headquarter contacts identified on NOAA's Federal consistency website, affected local governments and state agencies, and to individuals requesting direct notice. To meet the requirement for direct public notice (via email or mail), states are encouraged to maintain a coastal management listserv or mailing list. In addition to posting the public notice on the state's website and notifying the parties described above, states may, but are not required to, publish the notice in any state bulletin or newspaper. The timing of the state's public notice. States will draft a public notice of a submission, which shall be included as part of the contents of the program change submission form. When NOAA posts the program change submission on its Program Change website, NOAA will notify the state management program via email. The state will then post its public notice on the state web page providing a link to the submission on NOAA's Program Change website. The state shall send the public notice and link to the state and local agencies, Federal agency contacts, and others who have requested the state's public notice. Day 1 for NOAA review purposes will be the first business day after the state submits to NOAA the program change request. However, the 21-day comment period shall not start until the state posts its public notice on the state web page. If a state fails to post its public notice, then NOAA may either determine the
program change submission is not complete and the review period has not started or deny the program change request.
(2) A state's public notice shall:
(i) Describe the changes to the management program;
(ii) If applicable, identify any new, modified or deleted enforceable policies of the management program;
(iii) Indicate that any comments on the incorporation of the program change into the state's management program shall be submitted to NOAA through NOAA's Program Change website within 21 calendar days of the date of the state's public notice; and
(3) NOAA shall post all program changes on its Program Change website where any interested party may review or download materials. NOAA shall also post on its Program Change website deadlines, extensions and any comments received. For each program change posted on NOAA's website, NOAA shall notify the Federal agency CZMA headquarter contacts (identified on NOAA's Federal consistency website) via email. In addition, any party may request through the Program Change website that NOAA notify them via email when program changes are submitted by one or more state(s). NOAA's email shall also state that any party may, through NOAA's Program Change website, submit comments to NOAA on a state's request to incorporate a program change into the state's management program within 21 calendar days from the date of the state's public notice. NOAA shall only consider public and Federal agency comments for program change requests that are pending for a NOAA decision; no comments shall be accepted or considered for program changes once NOAA issues its decision. If a state, during or after the public comment period, submits directly to NOAA a response to a comment before NOAA issues a decision, NOAA shall consider the state's response and post the state's response on the Program Change website.
(4) NOAA may, at its discretion, extend the public comment period or hold a public hearing. NOAA shall only consider holding a public hearing for a program change that would substantially change a management program and/or be controversial.
(5) NOAA shall post its program change decisions on its CZMA Program Change website and shall notify, by email, Federal agency CZMA headquarter contacts and individuals requesting such notice. A state shall post NOAA's decision regarding a state's program change on the state agency's website.
(f) Application of approved program changes for Federal consistency purposes under section 307 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1456) and part 930 of this subchapter. The effective date for the approved changes will be the date on NOAA's approval letter. NOAA will post its program change decision letters on its Program Change website. Changes to a state's management program and enforceable policies shall apply for Federal consistency purposes to Federal actions proposed on or after the date NOAA approves the changes. Approved program changes shall not apply retroactively to state Federal consistency reviews under 15 CFR part 930 initiated prior to the date NOAA approved the changes, except as allowed by part 930 (e.g., a Federal action was finalized or authorized and there is a substantial change, amendment or renewal proposed for the Federal action on or after the date of NOAA's approval of a program change, pursuant to the applicable subpart of part 930).
§ 923.82
Program change submissions.
(a) As required by CZMA section 306(e)(3)(A), coastal states may not implement a change as part of its approved management program unless the change is approved by NOAA. In accordance with §§ 923.81 and 923.83, states shall submit program changes to NOAA for approval using the Program Change Form on NOAA's Program Change website.
(b) All state program changes shall identify the program approval area(s) that apply to the program change. The five program approval areas are: Uses Subject to Management (subpart B of this part); Special Management Areas (subpart C of this part); Boundaries (subpart D of this part); Authorities and Organization (subpart E of this
part); and Coordination, Public Involvement and National Interest (subpart F of this part).
(c) Program changes that are editorial, non-substantive, or minor in scope. The types of program changes in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section shall be approved by NOAA and need less review as long as they satisfy the decision criteria in § 923.84 and do not raise issues under any Federal laws, as described in § 923.85:
(1) Editorial or non-substantive changes (e.g., citation changes, minor technical changes, or changes to state agency name) to state laws, regulations, enforceable policies, local government coastal management programs, special area management plans, and other authorities;
(2) Changes that do not change a state's coastal zone boundary or geographic location description(s), and are not otherwise used by the state for Federal consistency review;
(3) Changes to the organization of a state's management program if the management program's structure and responsibilities will remain intact; and
(4) Changes to enforceable policies previously approved by NOAA that make minor substantive revisions consistent with the scope and application of the previously approved enforceable policy. If the proposed changes are not consistent with the scope and application of the previously approved enforceable policy, then NOAA shall more closely review the changes under paragraph (d) of this section to ensure they satisfy the decision criteria.
(d) Any program change that is not described in paragraph (c) of this section shall be reviewed by NOAA to ensure the state's management program will remain approvable if the proposed program change is approved. These changes include:
(1) Changes to the five program approval areas, including: Uses Subject to Management (subpart B of this part); Special Management Areas (subpart C of this part); Boundaries (subpart D of this part); Authorities and Organization (subpart E of this part); and Coordination, Public Involvement and National Interest (subpart F of this part);
(2) Changes to enforceable policies, including modifications, additions and deletions;
(3) Changes to provisions that are not enforceable policies, but which a state may use to evaluate the scope or applicability of an enforceable policy (e.g., definitions, advisory statements);
(4) Changes to local government coastal management programs or plans if those local programs or plans contain enforceable policies that the state uses for Federal consistency review. States are not required to submit program changes for local government coastal management programs or plans that do not contain enforceable policies for Federal consistency review;
(5) Changes or additions to the state's Federal consistency list or geographic location descriptions (part 930 of this subchapter); and
(6) Changes or additions to Necessary Data and Information (§ 930.58 of this subchapter).
(e) Changes to state Clean Air Act (CAA) and Clean Water Act (CWA) Pollution Control Requirements. Pursuant to section 307(f) of the Act, requirements established by the CWA (33 U.S.C. 1251-1387) and the CAA (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671), or established by the Federal Government or by any state or local government pursuant to the CWA and CAA shall be incorporated in state management programs and shall be the water pollution control and air pollution control requirements applicable to such management program. Therefore, states are not required to submit as program changes any changes to state CAA and CWA provisions.
§ 923.83
Program change materials.
(a) All program changes submitted to NOAA shall be submitted in accordance with § 923.81. States shall use the Program Change website Form and Table to provide the following.
(1) A brief general overview description of the proposed program change(s) and a current version of the document(s) containing the program change (e.g., text of the revised statute, regulation, policy, map). The general overview description shall identify the law, regulation, policy, or other type of program provision contained in the program change submission.
(2) A brief summary of the changes of each authority or policy identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and how the management program as changed is different than the previously approved management program.
(3) Indicate which of one or more of the five management program approval areas under this part apply to the program change:
(i) Uses Subject to Management (subpart B);
(ii) Special Management Areas (subpart C);
(iii) Boundaries (subpart D);
(iv) Authorities and Organization (subpart E); or
(v) Coordination, Public Involvement and National Interest (subpart F).
(4) States shall use the Program Change Table provided by NOAA through the Program Change website to provide:
(i) The State legal citation for the policy (state code, public law number, state regulation, other official state format);
(ii) The title of the policy, section, or other descriptor;
(iii) Whether the change or policy is new, revised, or deleted;
(iv) The date the change was effective in the state;
(v) Identification of each enforceable policy submitted as part of the program change; and
(vi) The state enforceable mechanism citation that makes the policy enforceable under state law. The phrase “enforceable mechanism” means a state authority that makes an enforceable policy legally binding under state law, as described in this subpart and § 930.11(h) of this subchapter. Examples of an enforceable mechanism include state statutes, regulations, permitting programs, local government ordinances or court decisions. If an enforceable mechanism is changed so that an enforceable policy is no longer legally binding under state law, then the enforceable policy shall be submitted as a program change with a new underlying state enforceable mechanism; otherwise the policy is no longer enforceable for purposes of state CZMA Federal consistency reviews under part 930 of this subchapter.
(5) Changes or additions to the state's Federal consistency list or geographic location descriptions.
(i) For each new or revised listed Federal action, states shall describe the:
(A) Type of Federal action;
(B) Specific Federal statutory authority;
(C) Responsible Federal agency; and
(D) Reasonably foreseeable effects to the uses and resources of the state's coastal zone (§ 923.84(d)).
(ii) For each new or revised geographic location description, states shall describe the:
(A) Geographic location description, using specific geographic boundaries;
(B) Listed Federal actions to be included within a geographic location description; and
(C) Reasonably foreseeable effects to the uses and resources of the state's coastal zone (§ 923.84(d)).
(6) States shall describe any changes or additions to Necessary Data and Information approved by NOAA in accordance with § 930.58 of this subchapter and explain why such information is necessary in order for the state to commence its Federal consistency review period.
(7) The state shall indicate that the program change meets each of NOAA's decision criteria in § 923.84.
(8) The state shall describe whether and how the program change will impact the following:
(i) Resources or interests of any federally-recognized Indian Tribe.
(ii) Threatened or endangered species listed under the Federal Endangered Species Act (ESA);
(iii) Historic properties designated under the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA);
(iv) Essential fish habitat designated under the Magnuson Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (MSFCMA); and
(v) Marine mammals managed under the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA).
(9) The state shall identify the state's website where the public notices for the notification and submission requests are, or will be, located and where, if applicable, state documents related to the request may be viewed.
(10) The state shall submit to NOAA any substantive correspondence between the state and Federal agencies (not including NOAA's Office for Coastal Management) concerning the development of the changes that are the subject of the program change request.
(11) The state shall indicate if the program change was developed as a necessary action pursuant to section 312 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1458—Review of performance) and, if so, shall briefly describe the necessary action.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 923.84
Program change decision criteria.
(a) NOAA shall review all program changes on a case-by-case basis. NOAA shall determine whether a management program, if changed, would continue to satisfy the applicable program approval criteria of CZMA section 306(d) and subparts B through F of this part and the requirements of this subpart (subpart H).
(b) Enforceable policies. In order for NOAA to approve the incorporation of a new or revised enforceable policy into a state's management program, the policy shall:
(1) Be legally binding under state law;
(2) Contain standards of sufficient specificity to guide public and private uses. A policy is not enforceable if it merely directs a state agency to develop regulations or standards.
(i) Definitions and information requirements are essential elements of determining compliance with regulatory and permit standards. As such, a state law or regulation that contains numerous standards, definitions, and information requirements may be considered enforceable in its entirety after consultation with NOAA. If NOAA determines that a law or regulation may be considered enforceable in its entirety, a state shall still need to apply only the substantive standards within the statute or regulation as enforceable policies for CZMA Federal consistency reviews. Procedural requirements are not considered to be enforceable policies for CZMA review purposes.
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) Apply only to areas and/or entities under state jurisdiction;
(4) Not refer to or otherwise purport to apply to Federal agencies, Federal lands or Federal waters. The Act does not authorize states to establish regulatory standards for Federal agencies or for Federal lands or waters. A state policy that would regulate or otherwise establish standards for Federal agencies or Federal lands or waters shall not meet the Act's definition of “enforceable policy” (
i.e.,
legally binding under state law) under 16 U.S.C. 1453(6a). States apply their NOAA-approved enforceable policies to Federal actions, regardless of location, through CZMA Federal consistency reviews under 16 U.S.C. 1456 and part 930 of this subchapter;
(5) Not be preempted by Federal law. If a state policy is preempted by Federal law, the policy is not legally binding under state law and shall not be an enforceable policy under 16 U.S.C. 1453(6a). Policies previously approved by NOAA as enforceable policies shall no longer be enforceable if Federal law enacted after NOAA's approval preempts the state policy;
(6) Not incorporate by reference other state or local requirements that are not identified, described and evaluated as part of the program change request. Any state or local requirements incorporated by reference shall not be applicable for Federal consistency review purposes unless separately approved by NOAA as enforceable policies;
(7) Not discriminate against a particular type of activity or entity. Enforceable policies shall be applied to all relevant public and private entities that would have similar coastal effects. Enforceable policies may be specific to a particular type of activity or entity if NOAA agrees that a state has demonstrated that the activity or entity present unique circumstances; and
(8) Not adversely affect the national interest in the CZMA objectives described in 16 U.S.C. 1451 and 1452.
(c) If enforceable policies previously approved by NOAA become obsolete or unenforceable through application of subsequently enacted state or Federal law, such policies will no longer be enforceable for purposes of CZMA Federal consistency review. For example, a state law change may repeal a previous
policy or may change the policy in a manner that changes the scope and application of the policy. In such cases, the previously approved enforceable policy is no longer applicable under state law and the new or substantially revised policy is not applicable for Federal consistency purposes until that policy has been submitted by the state as a program change and approved by NOAA. A previously approved enforceable policy will no longer be legally enforceable under state law if subsequent Federal law preempts the state policy.
(d) Changes to a management program's Federal consistency list or a new or revised geographic location description under part 930 of this subchapter, subparts C, D, E, F or I. For changes to a management program's list of Federal actions or a new or revised geographic location description, the state's effects analysis shall be based on information that would allow NOAA to find that the listed activity, either within the state's coastal zone or within a geographic location described outside the state's coastal zone, would have reasonably foreseeable effects on the uses or resources of the state's coastal zone. A state's analysis asserting impacts to uses or resources outside of the coastal zone shall not, by itself, demonstrate a coastal effect; rather, the state shall describe a causal connection of how an impact outside the coastal zone could result in a coastal effect. A state's effects analysis shall not be based on unsupported conclusions, speculation or the mere existence of coastal uses or resources within a geographic location. A state's coastal effects analysis shall, to the extent practicable, identify:
(1) The affected uses (e.g., commercial and recreational fishing, boating, tourism, shipping, energy facilities) and resources (e.g., fish, marine mammals, reptiles, birds, landmarks).
(2) Where and in what densities the uses and resources are found.
(3) How the state has a specific interest in the resource or use. States should be specific in showing the connection to the coastal zone of the state (e.g., economic values, harvest amounts, vulnerabilities, seasonal information relevant to the proposed activity).
(4) Where the proposed activity overlaps with these resources, uses and values.
(5) Impacts to the resources or uses from the proposed activity.
(6) A reasonable showing of a causal connection to the proposed activity, including how the impacts from the activity results in reasonably foreseeable effects on the state's coastal uses or resources.
(7) Why any required mitigation may be inadequate.
(8) Empirical data and information that supports the effects analysis and: Can be shown to be reliable; visualizes the affected area, resources and uses with maps; and shows values, trends and vulnerabilities.
§ 923.85
Procedural requirements of other Federal law.
NOAA shall determine on a case-by-case basis whether each program change requires NOAA to take additional actions under any other Federal requirements.
(a) If a state's program change will affect the resources or interests of any federally-recognized Indian Tribe (tribe), NOAA shall contact the affected tribe(s) and determine if Government-to-Government consultation is desired under Executive Order 13175 (Nov. 6, 2000).
(b) If, for the purposes of ESA, NHPA, MSFCMA or MMPA compliance, NOAA determines that a state's program change will have effects on listed threatened or endangered species, historic properties, essential fish habitat or marine mammals, then NOAA shall determine if consultation is needed with the applicable Federal agency under the ESA, NHPA, MSFCMA and MMPA.
(c) When NOAA determines whether to consult under other Federal statutes or tribal executive orders, NOAA's ability to require changes to a state's proposed program change are limited by the following:
(1) Once NOAA approves a state's management program, NOAA cannot require a state to change its program. NOAA can, through periodic evaluations of a state's management program under section 312 of the Act, establish necessary actions if NOAA finds a state
is not adhering to its NOAA-approved program, but NOAA can only recommend that a state change its program to create a different state standard or to address emerging issues; and
(2) NOAA can approve or disapprove a program change request. When NOAA reviews a program change, NOAA has a limited ability to require a state to make changes to state policies. If NOAA disapproves a program change request, this does not require a state to change state law. Therefore, there is no effect from NOAA's denial on the implementation of state law at the state (or local government) level. NOAA's denial means the disapproved state policy is not part of the state's NOAA-approved management program and cannot be used for CZMA Federal consistency purposes. NOAA cannot use a program change to require changes to other parts of a state's management program.

# Subpart I—Applications for Program Development or Implementation Grants

# Source:
61 FR 33816, June 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 923.90
General.
(a) The primary purpose of development grants made pursuant to section 305 of the Act is to assist coastal States in the development of comprehensive coastal management programs that can be approved by the Assistant Administrator. The primary purpose of implementation grants made pursuant to section 306 of the Act is to assist coastal States in implementing coastal management programs following their approval, including especially administrative actions to implement enforceable program policies, authorities and other management techniques. The purpose of the guidelines in this subpart is to define the procedures by which grantees apply for and administer grants under the Act. These guidelines shall be used and interpreted in conjunction with applicable Federal laws and policies, Department of Commerce grants management regulations, policies and procedures, and any other applicable directives from the NOAA Grants Management Division and OCRM program offices.
(b) Grants awarded to a State must be expended for the development or administration, as appropriate, of a management program that meets the requirements of the Act, and in accordance with the terms of the award.
(c) All applications for funding under section 305 or 306 of the Act, including proposed work programs, funding priorities and allocations are subject to the discretion of the Assistant Administrator.
(d) For purposes of this subpart, the term
development grant
means a grant awarded pursuant to subsection 305(a) of the Act. “Administrative grant” and “implementation grant” are used interchangeably and mean grants awarded pursuant to subsection 306(a) of the Act.
(e) All application and preapplication forms are to be requested from and submitted to: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, Coastal Programs Division, 1305 East-West Highway (N/ORM3), Silver Spring, MD 20910.
§ 923.91
State responsibility.
(a) Applications for program grants are required to be submitted by the Governor of a participating state or by the head of the state entity designated by the Governor pursuant to subsection 306(d)(6) of the Act.
(b) In the case of a section 305 grant, the application must designate a single state agency or entity to receive development grants and to be responsible for development of the State's coastal management program. The designee need not be that entity designated by the Governor pursuant to subsection 306(d)(6) of the Act as a single agency to receive and administer implementation grants.
(c) One State application will cover all program activities for which program development or implementation funds under this Act and matching State funds are provided, irrespective of whether these activities will be carried out by State agencies, areawide or regional agencies, local governments, or interstate entities.
(d) The designated state entity shall be fiscally responsible for all expenditures made under the grant, including expenditures by subgrantees and contractors.
§ 923.92
Allocation.
(a) Subsections 303(4), 306(d)(3)(B) and 306(d)(10) of the Act foster intergovernmental cooperation in that a state, in accordance with its coastal zone management program, may allocate some of its coastal zone management responsibilities to several agencies, including local governments, areawide agencies, regional agencies and interstate agencies. Such allocations provide for continuing consultation and more effective participation and cooperation among state and local governments, interstate, regional and areawide agencies.
(b) A State may allocate a portion or portions of its grant to other State agencies, local governments, areawide or regional agencies, interstate entities, or Indian tribes, if the work to result from such allocation(s) will contribute to the effective development or implementation of the State's management program.
(1) Local governments. Should a State desire to allocate a portion of its grant to a local government, units of general-purpose local government are preferred over special-purpose units of local government. Where a State will be relying on direct State controls as provided for in subsection 306(d)(11)(B) of the Act, pass-throughs to local governments for local planning, regulatory or administrative efforts under a section 306 grant cannot be made, unless they are subject to adequate State overview and are part of the approved management program. Where the approved management program provides for other specified local activities or one-time projects, again subject to adequate State overview, then a portion of administrative grant funds may be allocated to local governments.
(2) Indian Tribes. Tribal participation in coastal management efforts may be supported and encouraged through a State's program. Individual tribes or groups of tribes may be considered regional agencies and may be allocated a portion of a State's grant for the development of independent tribal coastal management programs or the implementation of specific management projects provided that:
(i) The State certifies that such tribal programs or projects are compatible with its approved coastal management policies; and
(ii) On excluded tribal lands, the State demonstrates that the tribal program or project would or could directly affect the State's coastal zone.
§ 923.93
Eligible implementation costs.
(a) Costs claimed must be beneficial and necessary to the objectives of the grant project. As used herein the terms cost and grant project pertain to both the Federal and the matching share. Allowability of costs will be determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments.
(b) Federal funds awarded pursuant to section 306 of the Act may not be used for land acquisition purposes and may not be used for construction purposes. These costs may be eligible, however, pursuant to section 306A of the Act.
(c) The primary purpose for which implementation funds, pursuant to section 306 of the Act, are to be used is to assure effective implementation and administration of the management program, including especially administrative actions to implement enforceable program policies, authorities and other management techniques. Implementation activities should focus on achieving the policies of the Act.
(d) Section 306 funding in support of any of these purposes may be used to fund, among other things:
(1) Personnel costs,
(2) Supplies and overhead,
(3) Equipment, and
(4) Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering reports.
(e) States are encouraged to coordinate administrative funding requests with funding possibilities pursuant to sections 306A, 308, 309, 310 and 315 of the Act, as well as with funding possibilities pursuant to section 6217 of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990. When in doubt as to the appropriate section of the Act
under which to request funding, States should consult with OCRM. States should consult with OCRM on technical aspects of consolidating requests into a single application.
§ 923.94
Application for program development or implementation grants.
(a) OMB Standard Form 424 (4-92) and the NOAA Application Kit for Federal Assistance constitute the formal application. An original and two (2) copies must be submitted 45 days prior to the desired grant beginning date. The application must be accompanied by evidence of compliance with E.O. 12372 requirements including the resolution of any problems raised by the proposed project. The administrative requirements for grants and subawards, under this program, to state, local and Indian tribal governments are set out in 15 CFR part 24. The administrative requirements for other entities are prescribed under OMB Circular A-110: Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-Profit Organizations.
(b) Costs claimed as charges to the grant project must be beneficial and necessary to the objectives of the grant project. As used herein, the terms “cost” and “grant project” pertain to both the Federal amount awarded and the non-federal matching share. Allowability of costs will be determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments. Eligible implementation costs also shall be determined in accordance with § 923.93 of these regulations. Allowability of costs for non-profit organizations will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-122: Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations. Allowability of costs for institutions of higher education will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-21: Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.
(c) In the grant application, the applicant must describe clearly and briefly the activities that will be undertaken with grant funds in support of implementation and administration of the management program. This description must include:
(1) An identification of those elements of the approved management program that are to be supported in whole or in part by the Federal and the matching share,
(2) A clear statement of the major tasks required to implement each element,
(3) For each task the application must:
(i) Specify how it will be accomplished and by whom;
(ii) Identify any sub-awardees (other State agencies, local governments, individuals, etc.) that will be allocated responsibility for carrying out all or portions of the task, and indicate the estimated cost of the sub-awards for each allocation; and
(iii) Indicate the estimated total cost.
(4) The sum of all task costs in paragraph (c)(3) of this section should equal the total estimated grant project cost.
(d) For program development grants, when evaluating whether a State is making satisfactory progress toward completion of an approvable management program which is necessary to establish eligibility for subsequent grants, the Assistant Administrator will consider:
(1) The progress made toward meeting management program goals and objectives;
(2) The progress demonstrated in completing the past year's work program;
(3) The cumulative progress toward meeting the requirements for preliminary or final approval of a coastal management program;
(4) The applicability of the proposed work program to fulfillment of the requirements for final approval; and
(5) The effectiveness of mechanisms for insuring public participation and consultation with affected Federal, State, regional and local agencies in program development.
§ 923.95
Approval of applications.
(a) The application for a grant by any coastal State which complies with the policies and requirements of the Act and these guidelines shall be approved
by the NOAA Grants Officer, upon recommendation by the Assistant Administrator, assuming available funding.
(b) Should an application be found deficient, the Assistant Administrator will notify the applicant in detail of any deficiency when an application fails to conform to the requirements of the Act or these regulations. Conferences may be held on these matters. Corrections or adjustments to the application will provide the basis for resubmittal of the application for further consideration and review.
(c) The NOAA Grants Officer, upon recommendation by the Assistant Administrator, may waive appropriate administrative requirements contained in this subpart, upon finding of extenuating circumstances relating to applications for assistance.
§ 923.96
Grant amendments.
(a) Actions that require an amendment to a grant award such as a request for additional Federal funds, changes in the amount of the non-Federal share, changes in the approved project budget as specified in 15 CFR part 24, or extension of the grant period must be submitted to the Assistant Administrator and approved in writing by the NOAA Grants Officer prior to initiation of the contemplated change. Such requests should be submitted at least 30 days prior to the proposed effective date of the change and, if appropriate, accompanied by evidence of compliance with E.O. 12372 requirements.
