means the United States of America, the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States. For purposes of these regulations and their examples in this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”
§ 802.239
Urban cluster.
The term
urban cluster
means a statistical geographic area as identified in the most recent U.S. Census consisting of a densely settled core created from census tracts or blocks and contiguous qualifying territory that together have at least 2,500 individuals but fewer than 50,000 individuals.
§ 802.240
Urbanized area.
The term
urbanized area
means a statistical geographic area as identified in the most recent U.S. Census consisting of a densely settled core created from census tracts or blocks and contiguous qualifying territory that together have a minimum population of at least 50,000 individuals.
§ 802.241
U.S. business.
The term
U.S. business
means any entity, irrespective of the nationality of the persons that control it, engaged in interstate commerce in the United States.

# Note 1 to § 802.241:
See examples to definition in § 800.252.
§ 802.242
U.S. national.
The term
U.S. national
means an individual who is a U.S. citizen or an individual who, although not a U.S. citizen, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
§ 802.243
U.S. public entity.
The term
U.S. public entity
means the U.S. Government, a subnational government of the United States, or any other body exercising governmental functions of the United States, including air and maritime port authorities. The term includes, but is not limited to, the respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the U.S. Government and the subnational governments of the United States.
§ 802.244
Voting interest.
The term
voting interest
means any interest in an entity that entitles the owner or holder of that interest to vote for the election of directors of the entity (or, with respect to unincorporated entities, individuals exercising similar functions) or to vote on other matters affecting the entity.

# Subpart C—Coverage
§ 802.301
Transactions that are covered real estate transactions.
Transactions that are covered real estate transactions include:
(a) A transaction that meets the criteria of § 802.212, including where a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) enters into a purchase or lease of, or obtains a concession to, covered real estate either directly or indirectly. (See the examples in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.)
(b) A purchase by a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of less than full ownership of covered real estate that nevertheless affords the foreign person at least three property rights with respect to the covered real estate. (See the example in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.)
(c) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of real
estate, a portion of which is covered real estate with respect to which the foreign person has at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.)
(d) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of a portion of covered real estate with respect to which the foreign person has at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.)
(e) A purchase, lease, or assignment of a concession, of covered real estate that meets the criteria of § 802.212 by one foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) from another foreign person. (See the example in paragraph (h)(6) of this section.)
(f) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of covered real estate, that, through a subsequent change in the rights that a foreign person has with respect to covered real estate, results in the foreign person having at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(7) of this section.)
(g) A transaction the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of this part.
(h) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires Corporation X, a U.S. business. As a result, Corporation X is a foreign person. Subsequently, Corporation X purchases real estate that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part and obtains all of the property rights with respect to such real estate. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A purchases covered real estate that is undeveloped land. Corporation A's only asset in the United States is the covered real estate, and Corporation A is not itself nor does it own a U.S. business. In a subsequent transaction, Corporation B, a foreign person, purchases 100 percent of the shares of Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, the subsequent transaction as an indirect purchase of real estate is a covered real estate transaction.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, together with Corporation B, a U.S. business, purchases real estate that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Neither party has full ownership; rather, the title to the real estate is held by the two parties jointly. Corporation A is afforded at least three property rights as a result of the transaction. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases real estate. Half of such real estate is located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part of and is therefore covered real estate. The other half of the real estate purchased by Corporation A is not located in close proximity to any such military installation. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A's purchase is a covered real estate transaction.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, purchases covered real estate that is entirely located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Corporation B, a foreign person, leases from Corporation A a part of that real estate. Corporation B is entitled to at least three property rights with respect to the real estate as a result of the transaction. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B's lease is a covered real estate transaction.
(6)
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases covered real estate and is afforded three property rights with respect to the covered real estate. In a subsequent transaction, Corporation B, another foreign person, leases the covered real estate from Corporation A, and is also afforded three property rights. Assuming no other relevant facts, each transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
(7)
Example 7.
Corporation A, a foreign person, leases from Person B covered real estate, and is afforded two property rights. Person B subsequently provides Corporation A an additional property right in connection with the lease. Assuming no other relevant
facts, the lease is a covered real estate transaction because the subsequent change in rights results in the foreign person having at least three property rights.
§ 802.302
Transactions that are not covered real estate transactions.
Transactions that are not covered real estate transactions include:
(a) A transaction that meets the definition of excepted real estate transaction in § 802.216.
(b) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person of covered real estate, or a subsequent change in rights, that does not afford or result in the foreign person having at least three of the property rights with respect to the covered real estate.
(c) An acquisition of securities by a person acting as a securities underwriter, in the ordinary course of business and in the process of underwriting.
(d) An acquisition pursuant to a condition in a contract of insurance relating to fidelity, surety, or casualty obligations if the contract was made by an insurer in the ordinary course of business.
§ 802.303
Lending transactions.
(a) The extension of a mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement by a foreign person to another person for the purpose of the purchase, lease, or concession of covered real estate, regardless of whether accompanied by the creation in favor of the foreign person of a secured interest in the covered real estate, shall not, by itself, constitute a covered real estate transaction.
(1) The Committee will accept notices or declarations concerning a mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement that does not, by itself, constitute a covered real estate transaction only at the time that, because of imminent or actual default or other condition, there is a significant possibility that a purchase or lease by, concession to, or a change in rights involving a foreign person may result from the default or other condition and that would constitute a covered real estate transaction.
(2) Where the Committee accepts a notice or declaration concerning a mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and a party to the transaction is a foreign person that makes mortgages or loans in the ordinary course of business, the Committee will take into account whether the foreign person has made any arrangements to transfer the ownership and property rights over the covered real estate to U.S. nationals or excepted real estate investors for purposes of determining whether such mortgage, loan, or financing arrangement constitutes a covered real estate transaction.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement through which a foreign person acquires property rights over covered real estate may constitute a covered real estate transaction to the extent that the arrangement would constitute a purchase, lease, or concession under this part.
(c) Example: Corporation A, a foreign bank, makes a secured loan to Corporation B in order for Corporation B to purchase a building that constitutes covered real estate. The collateral for the loan is the building that Corporation B is purchasing, and upon default, Corporation A would obtain an ownership interest and be afforded at least three property rights with respect to the building. Corporation B defaults on the loan. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee would accept a notice or declaration of the imminent default or default transferring ownership of the building to Corporation A, which would constitute a covered real estate transaction.
§ 802.304
Timing rule for a contingent equity interest.
(a) For purposes of determining whether to include the rights that a holder of a contingent equity interest will acquire upon conversion of, or exercise of a right provided by, that interest in the Committee's analysis of whether a notified transaction is a covered real estate transaction, the Committee will consider factors that include:
(1) The imminence of conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions;
(2) Whether conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions depends on factors within the control of the acquiring party; and
(3) Whether the amount of interest and the rights that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition.
(b) When the Committee, applying paragraph (a) of this section, determines that the rights that the holder will acquire upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent condition will not be included in the Committee's analysis of whether a notified or submitted transaction is a covered real estate transaction, the Committee will disregard the contingent equity interest for purposes of that transaction except to the extent that they convey immediate rights to the holder with respect to the entity that issued the interest.

# Subpart D—Declarations
§ 802.401
Procedures for declarations.
(a) A party or parties may submit a voluntary declaration of a transaction by submitting electronically the information set out in § 802.402, including the certifications required thereunder, to the Staff Chairperson in accordance with the submission instructions on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(b) No communications other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute the submission of a declaration for purposes of section 721.
(c) Information and other documentary material submitted to the Committee under this section shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 802.802.
(d) Persons filing a declaration shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts, or circumstances regarding the transaction, and any material change in information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under § 802.402. Unless the Committee rejects the declaration on the basis of such material changes in accordance with § 802.404(a)(2)(i), such changes shall become part of the declaration filed by such persons under this section, and the certification required under § 802.403(d) shall apply to such changes.
(e) Parties to a transaction that have filed with the Committee a written notice regarding a transaction under § 802.501 or § 800.501 or a declaration under § 800.403 may not submit to the Committee a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction without the written approval of the Staff Chairperson.
§ 802.402
Contents of declarations.
(a) The party or parties submitting a voluntary declaration of a transaction under § 802.401 shall provide the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to the party or parties filing the voluntary declaration and to the transaction. (See also paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.)
(b) Other than as provided under paragraph (f) of this section, if fewer than all the parties to a transaction submit a declaration, the Committee may, at its discretion, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice of the transaction under § 802.501, if the Staff Chairperson determines that the information provided by the submitting party or parties in the declaration is insufficient for the Committee to assess the transaction.
(c) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, a declaration submitted under § 802.401 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The name of the foreign person(s) and the current holder(s) of interest in the real estate that are parties to, or, in applicable cases, the subject of the transaction, as well as the name, telephone number, and email address of the primary point of contact for each party.
(2) The following information regarding the transaction in question:
(i) A brief description of the rationale for and nature of the transaction, including its structure (
e.g.,
purchase, lease, or concession) and term, whether
the foreign person is acquiring a collection of assets or interest in an entity, and whether it is part of a larger project undertaken by the foreign person;
(ii) The total transaction value in U.S. dollars;
(iii) The status of the transaction, including the actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(iv) All sources of financing for the transaction and any real estate agents/brokers involved; and
(v) A copy of the definitive documentation of the transaction, such as a purchase, lease, or concession agreement, or if none exists, the document establishing the material terms of the transaction, which in the context of a transaction involving a covered port, must be signed and dated.
(3) The following information regarding the real estate that is the subject of the transaction:
(i) The location, by address and geographic coordinates in decimal degrees to the fourth digit, of the real estate that is the subject of the transaction;
(ii) The name(s) of and distance(s) to any covered port, military installation, or any other facility or property of the U.S. Government as identified in this part and that is relevant to CFIUS jurisdiction given the location of the real estate.
(iii) A description of the real estate that is the subject of the transaction including the approximate size (in acres, feet, or other appropriate measurement); nature of the real estate (
e.g.,
zoning type and the major topographical or other features of the real estate); and current use of the real estate including any physical security measures.
(iv) A description of the plans of the foreign person with respect to the real estate and structures that are or will be on the real estate; and
(v) A description of any leases, licenses, permits, easements, encumbrances, or other grants or approvals associated with the real estate, including whether any involve the U.S. Government.
(4) A statement as to whether the foreign person will have any of the following rights or abilities with respect to the real estate as a result of the transaction:
(i) To physically access the real estate;
(ii) To exclude others from physically accessing the real estate;
(iii) To improve or develop the real estate; or
(iv) To attach fixed or immovable structures or objects to the real estate.
(5) The name of the ultimate parent of the foreign person.
(6) The address and principal place of business of the foreign person and its ultimate parent.
(7) A complete pre-transaction organizational chart (and post-transaction, if different) including, information that identifies the name, principal place of business, place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent.
(8) Information regarding all foreign government ownership in the foreign person's ownership structure, including nationality and percentage of ownership, as well as any rights that a foreign government holds, directly or indirectly, with respect to the foreign person.
(9) With respect to the foreign person that is party to the transaction and any of its parents, as applicable, a brief summary of their respective business activities.
(10) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation.
(11) A statement as to whether any party to the transaction has been party to another transaction previously notified or submitted to the Committee,
and the case number assigned by the Committee regarding such transaction(s).
(12) A statement (including relevant jurisdiction and criminal case law number or legal citation) as to whether the holder of the real estate, the foreign person, any parent of the foreign person, or any person of which the foreign person is a parent, has been convicted in the last 10 years of a crime in any jurisdiction.
(d) Each party submitting a declaration shall provide a certification of the information contained in the declaration consistent with § 802.202. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(e) A party that offers a stipulation under paragraph (c)(10) of this section acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered real estate transaction.
(f) In the case of a transaction where a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction and is not submitting a declaration, the other party or parties to the transaction shall provide the information set out in this section with respect to itself and, to the extent known or reasonably available to it, with respect to the U.S. public entity.
§ 802.403
Beginning of 30-day assessment period.
(a) Upon receipt of a declaration submitted under § 802.401, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect the declaration and shall promptly notify in writing all parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration that:
(1) The Staff Chairperson has accepted the declaration and circulated the declaration to the Committee, and the date on which the assessment described in paragraph (b) of this section begins; or
(2) The Staff Chairperson has determined not to accept the declaration and circulate the declaration to the Committee because the declaration is incomplete, and an explanation of the material respects in which the declaration is incomplete.
(b) A 30-day period for assessment of a transaction that is the subject of a declaration shall commence on the date on which the declaration is received by the Committee from the Staff Chairperson. Such period shall end no later than the thirtieth day after it has commenced, or if the thirtieth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the thirtieth day.
(c) During the 30-day assessment period, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a covered real estate transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction.
(d) If the Committee notifies the parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration under § 802.401 that the Committee intends to conclude all action under section 721 with respect to that transaction, each party that has submitted additional information subsequent to the original declaration shall file a certification as described in § 802.202. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(e) If a party fails to provide the certification required under paragraph (d) of this section, the Committee may, at its discretion, take any of the actions under § 802.405.
§ 802.404
Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.
(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any declaration that does not comply with § 802.402 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any declaration at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the declaration has been submitted and before the Committee has taken one of the actions specified in § 802.405:
(i) There is a material change in the covered real estate transaction as to which a declaration has been submitted; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the declaration by the party (or parties); or
(3) Reject any declaration at any time after the declaration has been submitted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party (or parties) that submitted the declaration does not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within two business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the party (or parties) so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing.
(b) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the party (or parties) that submitted a declaration when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a declaration is not a covered real estate transaction.
(c) Parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration under § 802.401 may request in writing, at any time prior to the Committee taking action under § 802.405, that such declaration be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made and state whether the transaction that is the subject of the declaration is being fully and permanently abandoned. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(d) The Committee may not request or recommend that a declaration be withdrawn and refiled, except to permit parties to a covered real estate transaction to correct material errors or omissions, or describe material changes to the transaction, in the declaration submitted with respect to that covered real estate transaction.
(e) A party (or parties) may not submit more than one declaration for the same or a substantially similar transaction without approval from the Staff Chairperson.

# Note 1 to § 802.404:
See § 802.401(e) regarding the prohibition on submitting a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction for which a written notice has been filed, or a declaration submitted under part 800 of this chapter, without the approval of the Staff Chairperson.
§ 802.405
Committee actions.
(a) Upon receiving a declaration submitted under § 802.401 with respect to a covered real estate transaction, the Committee may, at the discretion of the Committee:
(1) If the Committee has reason to believe that the transaction may raise national security considerations, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice under subpart E;
(2) Inform the parties to the transaction that the Committee is not able to conclude action under section 721 with respect to the transaction on the basis of the declaration and that the parties may file a written notice under subpart E to seek written notification from the Committee that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction;
(3) Initiate a unilateral review of the transaction under § 802.501(c); or
(4) Notify the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction.
(b) The Committee shall take action under paragraph (a) of this section within the time period set forth in § 802.403(b).

# Subpart E—Notices
§ 802.501
Procedures for notices.
(a) Except as otherwise prohibited under paragraph (j) of this section, a party or parties to a proposed or completed transaction may file a voluntary notice of the transaction with the Committee. Voluntary notice to the Committee is filed by sending an electronic copy of the notice that includes, in English, the information set out in § 802.502, including the certification required under paragraph (h) of that section, and paying the fee required under subpart K of this part. For electronic submission instructions, see the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(b)(1) If the Committee determines that a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted under this part, and with respect to which the Committee has not informed the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721, may be a covered real estate transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to the transaction or other persons to provide to the Committee information necessary to determine whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction or whether the transaction may raise national security considerations.
(2) If the Committee determines that a transaction referred to under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is a covered real estate transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to file a notice of such covered real estate transaction under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) With respect to any covered real estate transaction:
(1) Any member of the Committee, or his or her designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may, subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding a transaction if:
(i) That member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction and may raise national security considerations and:
(A) The Committee has not informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction; and
(B) The President has not announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction; or
(ii) The transaction is a covered real estate transaction and:
(A) The Committee has informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction or determined that such transaction is not a covered real estate transaction, or the President has announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction; and
(B) Either:
(
1
) A party to such transaction submitted false or misleading material information to the Committee in connection with the Committee's consideration of such transaction or omitted material information, including material documents, from information submitted to the Committee; or
(
2
) A party to such transaction breaches a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A), such breach is certified to the Committee by the lead department or agency monitoring and enforcing such agreement or condition as a material breach, and the Committee determines that there are no other adequate and appropriate remedies or enforcement tools available to address such breach.
(2)(i) That is a transaction where a foreign person is not an excepted real estate investor due to the application of § 802.215(d), any member of the Committee, or his or her designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding such transaction if:
(A) That member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction and may raise national security considerations;
(B) The Committee has not informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction; and
(C) The President has not announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction.
(ii) No notice filed under this paragraph (c)(2) shall be made with respect to a transaction more than one year after the completion date of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee determines, in consultation with other members of the Committee, that because the foreign person no longer meets all the criteria set forth in § 802.215(a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through
(iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii), the transaction may threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and in no event shall an agency notice under this paragraph be made with respect to such a transaction more than three years after the completion date of the transaction.
(d) Notices filed under paragraph (c) of this section are deemed accepted upon their receipt by the Staff Chairperson. No agency notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be made with respect to a real estate transaction more than three years after the completion date of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee, in consultation with other members of the Committee, files such an agency notice.
(e) No communications other than those described in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section shall constitute the filing or submitting of a notice for purposes of section 721.
(f) Upon receipt of the electronic copy of a notice filed under paragraph (a) of this section, including the certification required by § 802.502(h), and payment of the fee required under subpart K of this part, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect such notice for completeness.
(g) Parties to a transaction are encouraged to consult with the Committee in advance of filing a notice and, in appropriate cases, to file with the Committee a draft notice or other appropriate documents to aid the Committee's understanding of the transaction and to provide an opportunity for the Committee to request additional information to be included in the notice. Any such pre-notice consultation should take place, or any draft notice should be provided, at least five business days before the filing of a voluntary notice. All information and documentary material made available to the Committee under this paragraph shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 802.802.
(h) Information and other documentary material provided by any party to the Committee after the filing of a voluntary notice under this section shall be part of the notice, and shall be subject to the final certification required under § 802.502(l).
(i) For any voluntarily submitted draft or formal written notice that includes a stipulation under section § 802.502(j) that a transaction is a covered real estate transaction, the Committee shall provide comments on the draft or formal written notice or accept the formal written notice of a covered real estate transaction not later than the date that is 10 business days after the date of submission of the draft or formal written notice.
(j) No party to a transaction may file a notice under paragraph (a) of this section if the transaction has been the subject of a declaration submitted under subpart D and the Committee has not yet taken any action with respect to the transaction under § 802.405.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23742, Apr. 29, 2020; 89 FR 93185, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 802.502
Contents of voluntary notices.
(a) If a party or the parties to a transaction file a voluntary notice, they shall provide in detail the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to the party or parties filing the voluntary notice and to the transaction. (See also paragraph (k) of this section regarding U.S. public entities and paragraph (h) of this section and § 802.202 regarding certification requirements.)
(b) A voluntary notice filed under § 802.501 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The following information regarding the transaction in question:
(i) A summary setting forth the essentials of the transaction, including a statement of the purpose of the transaction, its scope, both within and outside of the United States, as applicable, whether the foreign person is acquiring a collection of assets or interest in an entity, and the extent to which it is part of a larger project undertaken by the foreign person;
(ii) The nature of the transaction, for example, whether the transaction involves a purchase, lease, or concession of real estate and the term, if any;
(iii) The name, United States address (if any), website address (if any), nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities), and address of the principal place of business of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(iv) The name, address, website address (if any), principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization of the current holder of interest in the real estate that is the subject of the transaction;
(v) In the case that a U.S. public entity is a party to the covered real estate transaction, the name, telephone number, and email address of the primary point of contact for the U.S. public entity;
(vi) The name, address, and nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities) of:
(A) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(B) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(C) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent;
(vii) The name, address, website address (if any), and nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities) of the foreign person or foreign persons that will be afforded property rights with respect to the real estate that is the subject of the covered real estate transaction;
(viii) The actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(ix)(A) The value of the transaction in U.S. dollars, as determined under § 802.1103, and the parties' assessment of the applicable fee due under § 802.1101, including an explanation of the methodology used to determine such valuation and applicable fee; and
(B) If different than the value of the transaction provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ix)(A) of this section, a good faith approximation of the fair market value of the interest acquired in the covered real estate in U.S. dollars, as of the date of the notice.
(x) The name of any and all financial institutions and real estate agents/brokers involved in the transaction, including as advisors, underwriters, or sources of financing for the transaction;
(xi) A copy of the definitive documentation of the transaction, such as a purchase, lease, or concession agreement, or if none exists, the document establishing the material terms of the transaction, which in the context of a transaction involving a covered port, must be signed and dated;
(xii) Whether the foreign person will have any of the following rights or abilities with respect to the real estate as a result of the transaction and any additional information regarding such property rights:
(A) To physically access the real estate;
(B) To exclude others from physically accessing the real estate;
(C) To improve or develop the real estate; or
(D) To attach fixed or immovable structures or objects to the real estate.
(2) A detailed description of real estate that is the subject of the transaction, including as applicable:
(i) The location, by address and geographic coordinates in decimal degrees to the 4th digit, of the real estate that is the subject of the covered real estate transaction;
(ii) A description of the real estate that is the subject of the covered real estate transaction including the approximate size (in acres, feet, or other appropriate measurement); nature of the real estate (
e.g.,
zoning type and the major topographical or other features of the real estate); current use of the real estate; and structures that are or will be on the real estate;
(iii) A description of any leases, licenses, permits, easements, encumbrances, or other grants or approvals associated with the real estate, including whether any involve the U.S. Government, as well as any feasibility studies conducted with respect to the real estate; and
(iv) The name(s) of and distance(s) to any relevant covered port, military installation, or any other facility or
property of the U.S. Government as identified in this part, and that is relevant to CFIUS jurisdiction given the location of the real estate that is the subject of the transaction.
(3) With respect to the foreign person engaged in the transaction and its parents:
(i) A description of the business or businesses of the foreign person and its ultimate parent, and the CAGE codes, NAICS codes, and DUNS numbers, if any, for such businesses;
(ii) The plans of the foreign person for the real estate with respect to:
(A) Use and development of the real estate;
(B) Changing the nature of the real estate including building new structures or removing or altering current structures, including the anticipated dimensions and any physical security measures employed at the real estate; and
(C) Assigning, modifying, or terminating any leases, licenses, permits, easements, encumbrances, or other grants or approvals referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section;
(iii) Whether the foreign person is controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government, including as an agent or representative, or in some similar capacity, and if so, the identity of the foreign government;
(iv) Whether a foreign government or a person controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government:
(A) Has or controls property rights or has or controls ownership interests, including contingent equity interest, of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction or any parent of the foreign person, and if so, the nature and amount of any such interests, and with regard to contingent equity interest, the terms and timing of conversion;
(B) Has the right or power to appoint any of the principal officers or the members of the board of directors (including other persons who perform the duties usually associated with such titles) of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction or any parent of that foreign person;
(C) Holds any other contingent interest (for example, such as might arise from a lending transaction) in the foreign person that is a party to the transaction and, if so, the rights that are covered by this contingent interest, and the manner in which they would be enforced; or
(D) Has any other affirmative or negative rights or powers with respect to control over the foreign person engaged in the transaction, and if there are any such rights or powers, their source (for example, a “golden share,” shareholders agreement, contract, statute, or regulation) and the mechanics of their operation;
(v) Any formal or informal arrangements among foreign persons that hold an ownership interest in any foreign person that is a party to the transaction or between such foreign person and other foreign persons to act in concert on particular matters affecting the real estate that is the subject of the transaction, and provide a copy of any documents that establish those rights or describe those arrangements;
(vi) For each member of the board of directors or equivalent governing body (including external directors and other persons who perform duties usually associated with such titles) and officers (including president, senior vice president, executive vice president, and other persons who perform duties normally associated with such titles) of the foreign person engaged in the transaction and its immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents, and for any individual having an ownership interest of five percent or more in the foreign person engaged in the transaction and in the foreign person's ultimate parent, the following information:
(A) A curriculum vitae or similar professional synopsis, provided as part of the main notice, and
(B) The following “personal identifier information,” which, for privacy reasons, and to ensure limited distribution, shall be set forth in a separate document, not in the main notice:
(
1
) Full name (last, first, middle name);
(
2
) All other names and aliases used;
(
3
) Business address;
(
4
) Country and city of residence;
(
5
) Date of birth, in the format MM/DD/YYYY;
(
6
) Place of birth;
(
7
) U.S. Social Security number (where applicable);
(
8
) National identity number, including nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date (where applicable);
(
9
) U.S. or foreign passport number (if more than one, all must be fully disclosed), nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date and, if a U.S. visa holder, the visa type and number, date and place of issuance, and expiration date; and
(
10
) Dates and nature of foreign government and foreign military service (where applicable), other than military service at a rank below the top two non-commissioned ranks of the relevant foreign country; and
(vii) The following “business identifier information” for the immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents of the foreign person engaged in the transaction, including their main offices and branches:
(A) Business name, including all names under which the business is known to be or has been doing business;
(B) Business address;
(C) Business phone number, website address, and email address; and
(D) Employer identification number or other domestic tax or corporate identification number.
(c) The voluntary notice shall list any filings with, or reports to, agencies of the U.S. Government that have been or will be made with respect to the transaction prior to its completion, indicating the agencies concerned, the nature of the filing or report, the date on which it was filed or the estimated date by which it will be filed, and a relevant contact point and/or telephone number within the agency, if known.
(d) In the case of the establishment of a joint venture in which one or more of the parties is contributing covered real estate, information for the voluntary notice shall be prepared on the assumption that the foreign person that is party to the joint venture has made a purchase or lease, or been granted a concession to, the covered real estate that the other party to the joint venture is contributing or transferring to the joint venture. The voluntary notice shall describe the name and address of the joint venture and the entities that established, or are establishing, the joint venture.
(e) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee or the President, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts and circumstances addressed in the notice, and information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under this section, and shall file amendments to the notice to reflect such material changes. Such amendments shall become part of the notice filed by such persons under § 802.501, and the certifications required under paragraphs (h) and (l) of this section shall apply to such amendments.
(f) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include:
(1) A complete pre-transaction organizational chart (and post-transaction, if different) including, information that identifies the name, principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent.
(2) The opinion of the person regarding whether:
(i) It is a foreign person;
(ii) It is controlled by a foreign government; and
(iii) The transaction has resulted or could result in a foreign person being afforded property rights with respect to covered real estate, and the reasons for its view, focusing in particular on any powers (for example, by virtue of an agreement, statute, or regulation) that the foreign person will have with regard to the covered real estate, and how those powers can or will be exercised.
(g) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include information as to whether:
(1) Any party to the transaction is, or has been, a party to a mitigation agreement entered into or condition imposed under section 721, and if so, shall specify the date and purpose of such agreement or condition and the U.S. Government signatories; and
(2) Any party to the transaction (including such party's parents, subsidiaries, or entities under common control with the party) has been a party to a transaction previously notified to the Committee.
(h) Each party filing a voluntary notice shall provide a certification of the notice consistent with § 802.202. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(i) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include with the notice a list identifying each document provided as part of the notice, including all documents provided as attachments or exhibits to the narrative response.
(j) A party filing a voluntary notice may stipulate that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction. A stipulation offered by any party under this section must be accompanied by a detailed description of the basis for the stipulation. A party that offers such a stipulation acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered real estate transaction.
(k) In the case of a transaction where a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction, the notifying party or parties may be the non-U.S. public entity. Each notifying party shall provide the information set out in this section with respect to itself and, to the extent known or reasonably available to it, with respect to the U.S. public entity.
(l) At the conclusion of a review or investigation, each party that has filed additional information subsequent to the original notice shall file a final certification. (See § 802.202.) A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23742, Apr. 29, 2020]
§ 802.503
Beginning of 45-day review period.
(a) The Staff Chairperson shall accept a voluntary notice the next business day after the Staff Chairperson has:
(1) Determined that the notice complies with § 802.502;
(2) Confirmed that the applicable fee required under subpart K of this part has been received by the Department of the Treasury, or waived; and
(3) Disseminated the notice to all members of the Committee.
(b) A 45-day period for review of a transaction shall commence on the date on which the voluntary notice has been accepted, agency notice has been received by the Staff Chairperson, or the Chairperson of the Committee has requested a notice under § 802.501(b). Such review shall end no later than the forty-fifth day after it has commenced, or if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly advise in writing all parties to a transaction that have filed a voluntary notice of:
(1) The acceptance of the notice;
(2) The date on which the review begins; and
(3) The designation of any lead agency or agencies.
(d) Within two business days after receipt of an agency notice by the Staff Chairperson, the Staff Chairperson shall send written advice of such notice to the parties to the transaction that is subject to the notice. Such written advice shall identify the date on which the review began.
(e) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly circulate to all Committee members any draft pre-filing notice,
any agency notice, any complete notice, and any subsequent information filed by the parties.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23742, Apr. 29, 2020]
§ 802.504
Deferral, rejection, or disposition of certain voluntary notices.
(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any voluntary notice that does not comply with § 802.501 or § 802.502 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any voluntary notice at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the notice has been submitted and before action by the Committee or the President has been concluded:
(i) There is a material change in the transaction as to which notification has been made; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the notice by the parties;
(3) Reject any voluntary notice at any time upon determining that the filing fee paid by the parties was insufficient under subpart K of this part, subject to § 802.1108;
(4) Reject any voluntary notice at any time after the notice has been accepted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party or parties that have submitted the voluntary notice do not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within three business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the parties so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing;
(5) Reject any voluntary notice before the conclusion of a review or investigation, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if one of the parties submitting the voluntary notice has not submitted the final certification required by § 802.502(l); or
(6) Reject any voluntary notice at any time after the notice has been accepted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the Committee has proposed risk mitigation terms, including revisions to such terms, and if the Staff Chairperson has imposed a time frame for responding to such terms as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, to the party or parties that submitted the notice and the party or parties have failed to substantively respond to such terms within the time frame specified.
(b) Notwithstanding the authority of the Staff Chairperson under paragraph (a) of this section to reject an incomplete notice, the Staff Chairperson may defer acceptance of the notice, and the beginning of the review period specified by § 802.503, to obtain any information required under this section that has not been submitted by the notifying party or parties or other parties to the transaction. Where necessary to obtain such information, the Staff Chairperson may inform any non-notifying party or parties that notice has been filed with respect to a transaction involving the party, and request that certain information required under this section, as specified by the Staff Chairperson, be provided to the Committee within seven days after receipt of the Staff Chairperson's request.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the parties when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a voluntary notice is not a covered real estate transaction.
(d) The Staff Chairperson may impose a time frame of no fewer than three business days for the party or parties to provide a substantive response to proposed risk mitigation terms, including revisions to such terms. The time frame may be extended if the parties so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing. In determining whether to impose such a time frame, the Staff Chairperson may consider:
(1) The statutory deadline for completing an investigation under section 721(b)(2)(C)(i);
(2) The risk to the national security of the United States arising from the transaction;
(3) The party's or parties' responsiveness to the Committee;
(4) The nature of the transaction;
(5) The appropriateness of suspending, or imposing conditions on, the transaction under section 721(
l
); and
(6) Other such factors the Staff Chairperson may determine to be appropriate in connection with a specific transaction.
(e) Example: The Staff Chairperson receives a joint notice from Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a company that is selling covered real estate. The joint notice does not contain any information described under § 802.502 concerning the nature of the real estate. The Staff Chairperson may reject the notice or defer the start of the review period until the parties have supplied the omitted information.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23742, Apr. 29, 2020; 89 FR 93186, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 802.505
Determination of whether to undertake an investigation.
(a) After a review of a notified transaction under § 802.503, the Committee shall undertake an investigation of any transaction that it has determined to be a covered real estate transaction if:
(1) A member of the Committee (other than a member designated as ex officio under section 721(k)) advises the Staff Chairperson that the member believes that the transaction threatens to impair the national security of the United States and that the threat has not been mitigated; or
(2) The lead agency recommends, and the Committee concurs, that an investigation be undertaken.
(b) The Committee shall also undertake, after a review of a covered real estate transaction under § 802.503, an investigation to determine the effects on national security of any covered real estate transaction that would result in control by a foreign person of critical infrastructure, as defined in § 800.214 of this title, of or within the United States, if the Committee determines that the transaction could impair the national security and such impairment has not been mitigated.
(c) The Committee shall undertake an investigation as described in paragraph (b) of this section unless the Chairperson of the Committee (or the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury) and the head of any lead agency (or his or her delegee at the deputy level or equivalent) designated by the Chairperson determine on the basis of the review that the covered real estate transaction will not impair the national security of the United States.
§ 802.506
Determination not to undertake an investigation.
If the Committee determines, during the review period described in § 802.503, not to undertake an investigation of a notified covered real estate transaction, action under section 721 shall be concluded. An official at the Department of the Treasury shall promptly inform the parties to a covered real estate transaction in writing of a determination of the Committee not to undertake an investigation and to conclude action under section 721.
§ 802.507
Commencement of investigation.
(a) If it is determined that an investigation should be undertaken, such investigation shall commence no later than the end of the review period described in § 802.503.
(b) An official of the Department of the Treasury shall promptly inform the parties to a covered real estate transaction in writing of the commencement of an investigation.
§ 802.508
Completion or termination of investigation and report to the President.
(a) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the Committee shall complete an investigation no later than the forty-fifth day after the date the investigation commences, or, if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.
(b) Upon completion or termination of any investigation, the Committee shall send a report to the President requesting the President's decision if:
(1) The Committee recommends that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction;
(2) The Committee is unable to reach a decision on whether to recommend that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction; or
(3) The Committee requests that the President make a determination with regard to the transaction.
(c) In circumstances when the Committee sends a report to the President
requesting the President's decision with respect to a covered real estate transaction, such report shall include information relevant to sections 721(d)(4)(A) and (B), and shall present the Committee's recommendation. If the Committee is unable to reach a decision to present a single recommendation to the President, the Chairperson of the Committee shall submit a report of the Committee to the President setting forth the differing views and presenting the issues for decision.
(d) Upon completion or termination of an investigation, if the Committee determines to conclude all deliberative action under section 721 with regard to a notified covered real estate transaction without sending a report to the President, action under section 721 shall be concluded. An official at the Department of the Treasury shall promptly advise the parties to such a transaction in writing of a determination to conclude action.
(e) In extraordinary circumstances, the Chairperson may, upon a written request signed by the head of a lead agency, extend an investigation for one 15-day period. A request to extend an investigation must describe, with particularity, the extraordinary circumstances that warrant the Chairperson extending the investigation. The authority of the head of a lead agency to request the extension of an investigation may not be delegated to any person other than the deputy head (or equivalent thereof) of the lead agency. If the Chairperson extends an investigation under this paragraph with respect to a covered real estate transaction, the Committee shall promptly notify the parties to the transaction of the extension.
(f) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the term
extraordinary circumstances
means circumstances for which extending an investigation is necessary and the appropriate course of action, in the Chairperson's discretion, due to a force majeure event or to protect the national security of the United States.
§ 802.509
Withdrawal of notices.
(a) A party (or parties) to a transaction that has filed notice under § 802.501(a) may request in writing, at any time prior to conclusion of all action under section 721, that such notice be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made. Such requests will ordinarily be granted, unless otherwise determined by the Committee. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(b) Any request to withdraw an agency notice by the agency that filed it shall be in writing and shall be effective only upon approval by the Committee. An official of the Department of the Treasury shall advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision to approve the withdrawal request within two business days of the Committee's decision.
(c) In any case where a request to withdraw a notice is granted under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The Staff Chairperson, in consultation with the Committee, shall establish, as appropriate:
(i) A process for tracking actions that may be taken by any party to the covered real estate transaction before a notice is refiled under § 802.501; and
(ii) Interim protections to address specific national security concerns with the covered real estate transaction identified during the review or investigation of the covered real estate transaction.
(2) The Staff Chairperson shall specify a time frame, as appropriate, for the parties to resubmit a notice and shall advise the parties of that time frame in writing.
(d) A notice of a transaction that is submitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be deemed a new notice for purposes of the regulations in this part, including § 802.701.

# Subpart F—Committee Procedures
§ 802.601
General.
(a) In any assessment, review, or investigation of a covered real estate transaction, the Committee should consider the factors specified in section 721(f), as applicable, and, as appropriate, require the parties to provide to
the Committee the information necessary to consider such factors. The Committee's assessment, review, or investigation (if necessary) shall examine, as appropriate, whether:
(1) The transaction is a covered real estate transaction;
(2) There is credible evidence to support a belief that any foreign person party to a covered real estate transaction might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States; and
(3) Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, provide adequate and appropriate authority to protect the national security of the United States.
(b) During an assessment, review, or investigation, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a notified transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction. During an investigation, a party to the transaction under investigation may request a meeting with the Committee staff; such a request ordinarily will be granted.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall be the point of contact for receiving material filed with the Committee, including notices and declarations.
(d) Where more than one lead agency is designated, communications on material matters between a party to the transaction and a lead agency shall include all lead agencies designated with regard to those matters.
(e) The parties' description of a transaction in a declaration or notice does not limit the ability of the Committee to, as appropriate, assess, review, or investigate, or exercise any other authorities available under section 721 with respect to any covered real estate transaction that the Committee identifies as having been notified to the Committee based upon the facts set forth in the declaration or notice, any additional information provided to the Committee subsequent to the original declaration or notice, or any other information available to the Committee.
§ 802.602
Role of the Secretary of Labor.
In response to a request from the Chairperson of the Committee, the Secretary of Labor shall identify for the Committee any risk mitigation provisions proposed to or by the Committee that would violate U.S. employment laws or require a party to violate U.S. employment laws. The Secretary of Labor shall serve no policy role on the Committee.
§ 802.603
Materiality.
The Committee generally will not consider as material minor inaccuracies, omissions, or changes relating to financial or commercial factors not having a bearing on national security.
§ 802.604
Tolling of deadlines during lapse in appropriations.
Any deadline or time limitation under subparts D or E imposed on the Committee shall be tolled during a lapse in appropriations.

# Subpart G—Finality of Action
§ 802.701
Finality of actions under section 721.
All authority available to the President or the Committee under section 721(d), including divestment authority, shall remain available at the discretion of the President with respect to any covered real estate transaction. Subject to § 802.501(c)(1)(ii), such authority shall not be exercised if:
(a) The Committee, through its Staff Chairperson, has advised a party (or the parties) in writing that a particular transaction with respect to which a voluntary notice or a declaration has been filed is not a covered real estate transaction;
(b) The parties to the transaction have been advised in writing under § 802.405(a)(4), § 802.506, or § 802.508(d) that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the covered real estate transaction; or
(c) The President has previously announced, under section 721(d), his or her decision not to exercise his or her authority under section 721 with respect to the covered real estate transaction.

# Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information
§ 802.801
Obligation of parties or other persons to provide information.
(a) This paragraph (a) sets forth requirements for parties to a transaction or other persons to provide information to the Staff Chairperson or requesting lead agency in the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Parties to a transaction that is notified or declared under subpart D or E of this part shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to conduct a full assessment, review, and/or investigation of the transaction.
(2) For a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted and for which the Staff Chairperson has requested information as provided for in § 802.501(b), parties to the transaction or other persons shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to determine whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction or whether the transaction may raise national security considerations.
(3) Independent of any obligations under an agreement, condition, or order authorized under section 721(
l
), parties shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson or the requesting lead agency so as to enable the Committee to assess compliance with section 721 and the regulations in this part or to monitor compliance with, enforce or modify the terms of, or decide to terminate any agreement entered into, condition imposed, or order issued.
(4) Any person that has submitted information to the Committee shall respond to requests from the Staff Chairperson for information to enable the Committee to determine whether the party made any material misstatement or omitted material information from any such submission.
(5) Parties to a transaction that have filed information with the Committee shall promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes to such information.
(6) If deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may obtain information from parties to a transaction or other persons through subpoena or otherwise, under the Defense Production Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(a)).
(b) Documentary materials or information required or requested to be filed with the Committee under this part shall be submitted in English. Supplementary materials written in a foreign language shall be submitted in certified English translation.
(c) Any information filed with the Committee in connection with any action for which a report is required under section 721(l)(6)(B) with respect to the implementation of a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A) shall be accompanied by a certification that complies with the requirements of section 721(n) and § 802.202. A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93186, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 802.802
Confidentiality.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any information or documentary material submitted or filed with the Committee under this part, including information or documentary material filed under § 802.501(g), shall be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552
et seq.
), and no such information or documentary material may be made public.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not prohibit disclosure of the following:
(1) Information relevant to any administrative or judicial action or proceeding;
(2) Information to Congress or to any duly authorized committee or subcommittee of Congress;
(3) Information important to the national security analysis or actions of the Committee to any domestic governmental entity, or to any foreign governmental entity of a United States ally or partner, under the exclusive direction and authorization of the Chairperson, only to the extent necessary for national security purposes, and subject to appropriate confidentiality and classification requirements; or
(4) Information that the parties have consented to be disclosed to third parties;
(c) This section shall continue to apply with respect to information and documentary material submitted or filed with the Committee in any case where:
(1) Action has concluded under section 721 concerning a notified transaction;
(2) A request to withdraw a notice or a declaration is granted under § 802.509 or § 802.404(c), respectively, or where a notice or a declaration has been rejected under § 802.504(a) or § 802.404(a), respectively;
(3) The Committee determines that a notified or declared transaction is not a covered real estate transaction; or
(4) Such information or documentary material was filed under subpart D and the parties do not subsequently file a notice under subpart E.
(d) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the public disclosure by a party of documentary material or information that it has submitted or filed with the Committee. Any such documentary material or information so disclosed may subsequently be reflected in the public statements of the Chairperson, who is authorized to communicate with the public and the Congress on behalf of the Committee, or of the Chairperson's designee.
(e) The provisions of the Defense Production Act Reauthorization of 2003, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(d)) relating to fines and imprisonment shall apply with respect to the disclosure of information or documentary material filed with the Committee under these regulations.

# Subpart I—Penalties and Damages
§ 802.901
Penalties and damages.
(a)(1) Any person who submits a declaration or notice with a material misstatement or omission or makes a false certification under § 802.402, § 802.403, or § 802.502 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 per violation.
(2) Any person who, in response to a request from the Staff Chairperson or a lead agency, submits to the Committee any information pursuant to § 802.801(a)(2), (3), or (4) or (c), with a material misstatement or omission may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 per violation. This paragraph (a)(2) shall apply only with respect to responses to requests that were made in writing, specified a time frame for response, and indicated the applicability of this paragraph (a).
(3) The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation as provided for in this paragraph (a) shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(b)(1) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after February 13, 2020, and before December 26, 2024, with, a material condition imposed on or after February 13, 2020, and before December 26, 2024, by, or an order issued on or after February 13, 2020, and before December 26, 2024, by, the United States under section 721(
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed $250,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(2)(i) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after December 26, 2024, with, a material condition imposed on or after December 26, 2024, by, or an order issued on or after December 26, 2024, by, the United States under section 721(
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed the greatest of:
(A) $5,000,000;
(B) The value of the person's interest in the covered real estate (or, as applicable, the owner of the covered real estate) at the time of the transaction;
(C) The value of the person's interest in the covered real estate (or, as applicable, the owner of the covered real estate) at the time of the violation in question or the most proximate time to the violation for which assessing such value is practicable; or
(D) The value of the transaction filed with the Committee.
(ii) For clarification, under paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, whichever penalty amount is greatest may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(c) A mitigation agreement entered into or amended under section 721(l) may include a provision providing for liquidated or actual damages for breaches of the agreement. The mitigation agreement shall specify the amount of any liquidated damages that are a reasonable assessment of the harm to the national security that could result from a breach of the agreement. Any mitigation agreement containing a liquidated damages provision shall include a provision specifying that the Committee may consider the severity of the breach in deciding whether to seek a lesser amount than that stipulated in the agreement.
(d) A determination to impose penalties under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must be made by the Committee. Notice of the penalty, including a written explanation of the conduct to be penalized and the amount of the penalty, shall be sent to the subject person electronically and by U.S. mail or courier service. Notice shall be deemed to have been effected by the earlier of the date of electronic transmission and the date of receipt of U.S. mail or courier service. For the purposes of this section, the term
subject person
means the person or persons who may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty.
(e) Upon receiving notice of a penalty to be imposed under any of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the subject person may, within 20 business days of receipt of such notice, submit a petition for reconsideration to the Staff Chairperson, including a defense, justification, or explanation for the conduct to be penalized. The Committee will review the petition and issue any final penalty determination within 20 business days of receipt of the petition. The Staff Chairperson and the subject person may extend either such period through written agreement or, where there is a compelling circumstance and if it is deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may extend either period by notifying the subject person in writing of the extended time frame. The Committee and the subject person may reach an agreement on an appropriate remedy at any time before the Committee issues any final penalty determination.
(f) The penalties and damages authorized in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section may be recovered in a civil action brought by the United States in federal district court.
(g) Section 2 of the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001), shall apply to all information provided to the Committee under section 721, including by any party to a covered real estate transaction.
(h) The penalties and damages available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, available under law.
(i) The imposition of a civil monetary penalty or damages under these regulations creates a debt due to the U.S. Government. The Department of the Treasury may take action to collect the penalty or damages assessed if not paid within the time prescribed by the Committee and notified to the applicable party or parties. In addition or instead, the matter may be referred to the Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty or damages.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93186, Nov. 26, 2024]
§ 802.902
Effect of lack of compliance.
If, at any time after a mitigation agreement or condition is entered into or imposed under section 721(l), the Committee or a lead agency in coordination with the Staff Chairperson, as the case may be, determines that a party or parties to the agreement or condition are not in compliance with the terms of the agreement or condition, the Committee or a lead agency
in coordination with the Staff Chairperson may, in addition to the authority of the Committee to impose penalties under section 721(h) and to unilaterally initiate a review of any covered real estate transaction under section 721(b)(1)(D)(iii):
(a) Negotiate a plan of action for the party or parties to remediate the lack of compliance, with failure to abide by the plan or otherwise remediate the lack of compliance serving as the basis for the Committee to find a material breach of the agreement or condition;
(b) Require that the party or parties submit a written notice or declaration under clause (i) of section 721(b)(1)(C) with respect to a covered real estate transaction initiated after the date of the determination of noncompliance and before the date that is five years after the date of the determination to the Committee to initiate a review of the transaction under section 721(b); or
(c) Seek injunctive relief.

# Subpart J—Foreign National Security Investment Review Regimes
§ 802.1001
Determinations.
(a) The Committee may determine at any time that a foreign state has made significant progress toward establishing and effectively utilizing a robust process to analyze foreign investments for national security risks and to facilitate coordination with the United States on matters relating to investment security.
(b) The Committee may rescind a determination under paragraph (a) of this section if the Committee determines that such a rescission is appropriate.
(c) The Chairperson of the Committee shall publish a notice of any determination or rescission of a determination under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, respectively, in the
Federal Register
.
§ 802.1002
Effect of determinations.
(a) A determination under § 802.1001(a) shall take effect immediately upon publication of a notice of such determination under § 802.1001(c) and remain in effect unless rescinded under § 802.1001(b).
(b) A rescission of a determination under § 802.1001(b) shall take effect on the date specified in the notice published under § 802.1001(c).
(c) A determination under § 802.1001(a) does not apply to any transaction for which a declaration or notice has been accepted by the Staff Chairperson under § 802.403(a)(1) or § 802.503(a), respectively.
(d) A rescission of a determination under § 802.1001(b) does not apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date is prior to the date upon which the rescission of a determination under paragraph (b) of this section becomes effective; or
(2) Before publication of the rescission of determination under § 802.1001(c), the parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction that is ultimately consummated.

# Subpart K—Filing Fees

# Source:
85 FR 23743, Apr. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 802.1101
Amount of fee.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the parties filing a formal written notice of a transaction with the Committee under § 802.501(a) on or after May 1, 2020, shall pay a filing fee as follows:
(a) Where the value of the transaction is less than $500,000: No fee;
(b) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $500,000 but less than $5,000,000: $750;
(c) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $5,000,000 but less than $50,000,000: $7,500;
(d) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $50,000,000 but less than $250,000,000: $75,000;
(e) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $250,000,000 but less than $750,000,000: $150,000;
(f) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $750,000,000: $300,000.
§ 802.1102
Timing of payment.
Subject to §§ 802.1106 through 802.1108, the Staff Chairperson shall not accept a formal written notice under § 802.503(a) until payment of any fee required under this subpart is received by the Department of the Treasury in the manner specified on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
§ 802.1103
Valuation.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the value of the transaction for purposes of determining the required fee amount in this subpart shall be determined as follows:
(a) For a transaction structured as a purchase, by the total value of all consideration that has been or will be provided in the context of the transaction by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a purchaser in the transaction, including cash, assets, shares or other ownership interests, debt forgiveness, or services or other in-kind consideration.
(b) For a transaction structured as a lease, by the value of the sum of, as applicable:
(1) Any fixed payments to be paid by the foreign person that is a lessee in the transaction to, or for the benefit of, the lessor over the term of the lease;
(2) Any variable payments that depend on an index or a rate (such as a market interest rate) to be paid by the foreign person that is a lessee in the transaction to, or for the benefit of, the lessor, over the term of the lease, measured for purposes of this section by using the index or rate on the day immediately prior to the date the parties file the formal written notice; and
(3) Any non-cash consideration to be provided by the foreign person that is a lessee in the transaction to, or for the benefit of, the lessor, over the term of the lease, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(c) For a transaction structured as a concession, by the value of the sum of all rent, fees, and charges to be paid by the foreign person to the grantor and any non-cash consideration to be provided by such foreign person to, or for the benefit of, the grantor, over the term of a concession agreement, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(d) Determining the value of consideration:
(1) Where the consideration is or includes securities traded on a national securities exchange, the value of the securities is the closing price on the national securities exchange on which the securities are primarily traded on the trading day immediately prior to the date the parties file the formal written notice with the Committee under § 802.501(a), or if the securities were not traded on that day, the last published closing price.
(2) Where the consideration is or includes other non-cash assets, services, interests, or other in-kind consideration, including real property contributed by a foreign person that is party to a transaction involving the exchange of land or contribution to a joint venture, the value of the assets, service, interests, or other in-kind consideration is their fair market value as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(3) Where the transaction is or includes a lending transaction, the consideration includes the cash value of the mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement, made available or provided by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction.
(4) Where the transaction is or includes the conversion of a contingent equity interest previously acquired by a foreign person that is a party to the transaction, the consideration includes what was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to initially acquire the contingent equity interest, in addition to any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.
(e) Exceptions:
(1) In the case of a purchase, to the extent the consideration to be provided by the foreign person has not been or cannot reasonably be determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice, the value of the transaction includes, with respect to assets for which consideration has not been determined, the fair market value of
the assets being purchased in the transaction as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.

# Note 1 to § 802.1103(
e

# )(1):
The consideration amount may be determined notwithstanding minor standard adjustments that are to be made at closing.
(2) In the case of a lease or concession, where the consideration to be provided by the foreign person has not been or cannot reasonably be determined at the time of filing, or, where the parties cannot reasonably determine the value of rent, fees, charges, or services under paragraph (c) of this section, the filing fee required shall be that required under § 802.1101(b).
(f) The Staff Chairperson is not bound by the parties' characterization of the transaction and its value or their good faith approximation provided to the Committee under § 802.502(b)(1)(ix).
(g) Fair market value means the price that would be received in exchange for sale of an interest, or paid to receive a service or to transfer liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants.
(1) In determining fair market value, parties shall make a good faith estimate and generally may rely on the last valuation as presented in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or other widely recognized accounting principles, such as the International Financial Reporting Standards, or the valuation of an independent appraiser; provided, however, that if no valuation has occurred within the prior two fiscal quarters, or if there have been significant changes to the fair market value since the last valuation, the parties shall make a good faith estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice, or, if the parties are filing after the completion of the transaction, the completion date of the transaction.
(2) In determining the fair market value of services, the parties may rely upon the value of services determined by the parties as set forth in an executed written agreement, or make an estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice based upon rates charged to third parties or recent industry reports or other sources of comparable commercial data; provided, however, if such sources are unavailable, the parties shall make a good faith estimate. If the parties are filing after completion of the transaction, the parties shall make an estimate of the fair market value as of the completion date.
(h) Multiple-phase and contingent equity interest transactions:
(1) Where a transaction will be effectuated in multiple phases, the value of the transaction includes the total value of the multiple phases, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(2) Where a transaction is or includes the acquisition of contingent equity interest, the value of the transaction includes the consideration that was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to acquire the contingent equity interest, and, if the conditions that lead to conversion will occur imminently, the conditions are within the control of the acquiring party, and the consideration for the interest that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition, any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.

# Note 2 to § 800.1103(
h

# )(2):
See § 802.1103(d)(4) regarding consideration for a contingent equity interest where the interest has been converted to equity.
(i) Examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into an agreement for the purchase of a parcel of covered real estate (Parcel X) from Corporation B. In exchange for ownership of Parcel X, Corporation A forgives a debt owed to it by Corporation B that is valued at $5,000,000 and pays $35,000,000 to Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $40,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
(2)
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into an agreement to lease a parcel of covered real estate from Corporation B. Pursuant to the agreement, Corporation A will pay Corporation B a fixed annual payment of $300,000 for a term of three years, with an option to renew the lease at the end
of the term. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $900,000, and the filing fee is $750.
(3)
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to enter into a concession agreement with a U.S. public entity for the right to use certain covered real estate for the purpose of developing and operating terminal infrastructure at a covered port. The concession agreement is for a five-year term. Under the concession agreement, Corporation A will pay the U.S. public entity a use charge of $450,000 per year starting in the second year. The concession agreement also requires Corporation A to pay utility fees and common area maintenance charges of $5,000 per month for the full concession term. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $2,100,000, based on the $1,800,000 use charge and $300,000 in utility fees. The filing fee is $750.
(4)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to enter into an oil, gas and mineral lease with a U.S. public entity. Under the terms of the lease, Corporation A pays a lease bonus of $1,000 per acre as an inducement to execute the lease with respect to a 10-acre parcel of covered real estate. The lease has a 10-year term. Corporation A must pay a royalty of 12.5 percent with respect to oil or gas production from the leased parcel. In the absence of such production, the foreign person is obligated to pay a rental fee of $1,000 per acre per year for the first five years and $2,000 per acre thereafter. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $160,000 and there is no filing fee.
(5)
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase Plot X and Plot Y. The transaction will be completed in two phases. Corporation A will first acquire Plot X for $30,000,000 (phase 1). One month later, Corporation A will acquire Plot Y for another $30,000,000 (phase 2). Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for both phases), and the filing fee is $75,000.
(6)
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase Plot X and acquire an option to purchase Plot Y. Corporation A will acquire Plot X and the option related to Plot Y in exchange for $30,000,000. Corporation A informs its shareholders that within two months, it will exercise the option to purchase Plot Y in exchange for another $30,000,000. Because the option to convert is imminent and in the control of Corporation A, and the consideration can be reasonably determined, the value of the transaction includes the consideration to be paid in connection with the conversion. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for the purchase of Plot X and the option to purchase Plot Y), and the filing fee is $75,000.
(j) The determination of the value of the transaction for purposes of calculating the filing fee in no way limits the Committee's jurisdiction or its authority to review, investigate, mitigate, impose penalties regarding, or take any other action regarding any covered real estate transaction.
§ 802.1104
Manner of payment.
Parties to a transaction must pay any filing fee by electronic payment. The filing fee must be paid in U.S. dollars. Instructions for paying filing fees are available on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
§ 802.1105
Refunds.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Department of the Treasury shall not refund a filing fee in whole or in part.
(b) If the Committee determines that the transaction is not a covered real estate transaction, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(c) In response to a petition by a party, if the Staff Chairperson determines, based on the information and representations contained in the formal written notice, as well as any other information provided by the parties, that a party or the parties to a transaction paid a filing fee in an amount greater than required at the time of filing, the Department of the Treasury shall refund the amount of overpayment to the party or parties who paid the filing fee.
§ 802.1106
Waiver.
If the Staff Chairperson determines that extraordinary circumstances relating to national security warrant, the Staff Chairperson may waive the filing fee in whole or in part and will notify the parties in writing. No waiver shall be implied, even where the Staff Chairperson does not reject a voluntary notice under § 802.1108 for failure to pay the required filing fee.
§ 802.1107
Refilings.
The parties to a transaction shall not be required to pay an additional filing fee in the event that the Staff Chairperson permits the parties to withdraw and refile a notice under § 802.509(c)(2), unless the Staff Chairperson determines that a material change to the transaction has occurred, or a material inaccuracy or omission was made by the parties in information provided to the Committee, that requires the Committee to consider new information, in which case the Staff Chairperson will inform the parties in writing.
§ 802.1108
Rejection of voluntary notice.
The Staff Chairperson may reject a voluntary notice under § 802.504(a)(3) upon a determination that the amount of the filing fee paid by the parties was insufficient under this subpart. Prior to rejecting a notice under § 802.504(a)(3), the Staff Chairperson shall inform the parties in writing of the insufficiency of payment and provide the parties three business days to pay the remainder of the filing fee. If the Staff Chairperson does not reject a voluntary notice under § 802.504(a)(3) upon a determination that the amount of the filing fee payment paid by the parties was insufficient under this section, the balance of the fee remains payable unless the Staff Chairperson notifies the parties in writing that the payment has been waived in whole or in part.
Pt. 802, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 802—List of Military Installations and Other U.S. Government Sites
Site name
Location
Part 1
Adelphi Laboratory Center
Adelphi, MD.
Air Force Maui Optical and Supercomputing Site
Maui, HI.
Air Force Office of Scientific Research
Arlington, VA.
Andersen Air Force Base
Yigo, Guam.
Anniston Army Depot
Anniston, AL.
Army Futures Command
Austin, TX.
Army Research Lab—Orlando Simulations and Training Technology Center
Orlando, FL.
Army Research Office
Durham, NC.
Barter Island Regional Radar Site
Barter Island, AK.
Beale Air Force Base
Yuba City, CA.
Biometric Technology Center (Defense Forensics and Biometrics Agency)
Clarksburg, WV.
Blue Grass Army Depot
Richmond, KY.
Buckley Space Force Base
Aurora, CO.
Camp Blaz
Dededo, Guam.
Camp Mackall
Southern Pines, NC.
Camp Navajo
Bellemont, AZ.
Camp Roberts
San Miguel, CA.
Cape Newenham Long Range Radar Site
Cape Newenham, AK.
Cavalier Space Force Station
Cavalier, ND.
Cheyenne Mountain Space Force Station
Colorado Springs, CO.
Clear Space Force Station
Anderson, AK.
Cold Bay Regional Radar Site
Cold Bay, AK.
Combat Capabilities Development Command Soldier Center
Natick, MA.
Creech Air Force Base
Indian Springs, NV.
Davis-Monthan Air Force Base
Tucson, AZ.
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
Arlington, VA.
Detroit Arsenal
Warren, MI.
Eareckson Air Station
Shemya, AK.
Eielson Air Force Base
Fairbanks, AK.
Ellington Field Joint Reserve Base
Houston, TX.
Fairchild Air Force Base
Spokane, WA.
Fort Belvoir
Fairfax County, VA.
Fort Bliss
El Paso, TX.
Fort Campbell
Hopkinsville, KY and Clarksville, TN.
Fort Carson
Colorado Springs, CO.
Fort Cavazos
Killeen, TX.
Fort Detrick
Frederick, MD.
Fort Drum
Watertown, NY.
Fort Eisenhower
Augusta, GA.
Fort Gregg-Adams
Petersburg, VA.
Fort Knox
Elizabethtown, KY.
Fort Leavenworth
Leavenworth County, KS.
Fort Leonard Wood
Pulaski County, MO.
Fort Meade
Anne Arundel County, MD.
Fort Moore
Columbus, GA.
Fort Riley
Junction City, KS.
Fort Shafter
Honolulu, HI.
Fort Sill
Lawton, OK.
Fort Stewart
Hinesville, GA.
Fort Yukon Long Range Radar Site
Fort Yukon, AK.
Francis E. Warren Air Force Base
Cheyenne, WY.
Guam Tracking Station
Inarajan, Guam.
Hanscom Air Force Base
Lexington, MA.
Hawthorne Army Depot
Hawthorne, NV.
Holloman Air Force Base
Alamogordo, NM.
Holston Army Ammunition Plant
Kingsport, TN.
Indian Mountain Regional Radar Site
Indian Mountain, AK.
Iowa Army Ammunition Plant
Middletown, IA.
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling
Washington, DC.
Joint Base Andrews
Camp Springs, MD.
Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
Anchorage, AK.
Joint Base Langley-Eustis
Hampton, VA and Newport News, VA.
Joint Base Lewis-McChord
Tacoma, WA.
Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
Lakehurst, NJ.
Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall
Arlington, VA.
Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
Honolulu, HI.
Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story
Virginia Beach, VA.
Joint Systems Manufacturing Center—Lima
Lima, OH.
Kaena Point Satellite Tracking Station
Waianae, HI.
Kenai Regional Radar Site
Kenai, AK.
King Salmon Air Force Station
King Salmon, AK.
Kirtland Air Force Base
Albuquerque, NM.
Kodiak Tracking Station
Kodiak Island, AK.
Kotzebue Regional Radar Site
Kotzebue, AK.
Lake City Army Ammunition Plant
Independence, MO.
Letterkenny Army Depot
Chambersburg, PA.
Lisburne Regional Radar Site
Cape Lisburne, AK.
Los Angeles Air Force Base
El Segundo, CA.
MacDill Air Force Base
Tampa, FL.
Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms
Twentynine Palms, CA.
Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort
Beaufort, SC.
Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
Cherry Point, NC.
Marine Corps Air Station Miramar
San Diego, CA.
Marine Corps Air Station New River
Jacksonville, NC.
Marine Corps Air Station Yuma
Yuma, AZ.
Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune
Jacksonville, NC.
Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton
Oceanside, CA.
Marine Corps Base Hawaii
Kaneohe Bay, HI.
Marine Corps Base Hawaii, Camp H.M. Smith
Halawa, HI.
Marine Corps Base Quantico
Quantico, VA.
Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany
Albany, GA.
Marine Corps Logistics Base Barstow
Barstow, CA.
Marine Corps Support Facility Blount Island
Jacksonville, FL.
Mark Center
Alexandria, VA.
McAlester Army Ammunition Plant
McAlester, OK.
Military Ocean Terminal Concord
Concord, CA.
Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point
Brunswick County, NC.
Minot Air Force Base
Minot, ND.
Naval Air Station Corpus Christi
Corpus Christi, TX.
Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base New Orleans
Belle Chasse, LA.
Naval Air Station Oceana
Virginia Beach, VA.
Naval Air Station Oceana Dam Neck Annex
Virginia Beach, VA.
Naval Air Station Whidbey Island
Oak Harbor, WA.
Naval Base Guam
Apra Harbor, Guam.
Naval Base Kitsap Bangor
Silverdale, WA.
Naval Base Point Loma
San Diego, CA.
Naval Base San Diego
San Diego, CA.
Naval Base Ventura County—Port Hueneme Operating Facility
Port Hueneme, CA.
Naval Logistics Support Activity Ketchikan
Ketchikan, AK.
Naval Logistics Support Activity LaMoure
LaMoure, ND.
Naval Logistics Support Annex Orlando
Okahumpka, FL.
Naval Logistics Support Facility Aguada
Aguada, Puerto Rico.
Naval Logistics Support Facility Cutler
Cutler, ME.
Naval Research Laboratory
Washington, DC.
Naval Research Laboratory—Blossom Point
Welcome, MD.
Naval Research Laboratory—Stennis Space Center
Hancock County, MS.
Naval Research Laboratory—Tilghman
Tilghman, MD.
Naval Station Newport
Newport, RI.
Naval Station Norfolk
Norfolk, VA.
Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay
Kings Bay, GA.
Naval Submarine Base New London
Groton, CT.
Naval Suffolk Facility
Suffolk, VA.
Naval Support Activity Crane
Crane, IN.
Naval Support Activity Orlando
Orlando, FL.
Naval Support Activity Panama City
Panama City, FL.
Naval Support Activity Philadelphia
Philadelphia, PA.
Naval Support Facility Carderock
Bethesda, MD.
Naval Support Facility Dahlgren
Dahlgren, VA.
Naval Support Facility Indian Head
Indian Head, MD.
Naval Surface Warfare Center Carderock Division—Acoustic Research Detachment
Bayview, ID.
Naval Weapons Station Seal Beach Detachment Norco
Norco, CA.
New Boston Air Station
New Boston, NH.
Offutt Air Force Base
Bellevue, NE.
Oliktok Long Range Radar Site
Oliktok, AK.
Orchard Combat Training Center
Boise, ID.
Peason Ridge Training Area
Leesville, LA.
Pentagon
Arlington, VA.
Peterson Space Force Base
Colorado Springs, CO.
Picatinny Arsenal
Morris County, NJ.
Pine Bluff Arsenal
White Hall, AR.
Piñon Canyon Maneuver Site
Tyrone, CO.
Pohakuloa Training Area
Hilo, HI.
Point Barrow Long Range Radar Site
Point Barrow, AK.
Portsmouth Naval Shipyard
Kittery, ME.
Pueblo Chemical Depot
Pueblo, CO.
Radford Army Ammunition Plant
Radford, VA.
Red River Army Depot
Texarkana, TX.
Rock Island Arsenal
Rock Island, IL.
Romanzof Regional Radar Site
Romanzof, AK.
Rome Research Laboratory
Rome, NY.
Scott Air Force Base
St. Clair County, IL.
Scranton Army Ammunition Plant
Scranton, PA.
Seymour Johnson Air Force Base
Goldsboro, NC.
Shaw Air Force Base
Sumter, SC.
Southeast Alaska Acoustic Measurement Facility
Ketchikan, AK.
Sparrevohn Regional Radar Site
Sparrevohn, AK.
Tatalina Regional Radar Site
Tatalina, AK.
Tin City Long Range Radar Site
Tin City, AK.
Tooele Army Depot
Tooele, UT.
Travis Air Force Base
Fairfield, CA.
Tyndall Air Force Base
Bay County, FL.
Watervliet Arsenal
Watervliet, NY.
Part 2
Aberdeen Proving Ground
Aberdeen, MD.
Air Force Plant 42
Palmdale, CA.
Altus Air Force Base
Altus, OK.
Arnold Air Force Base
Coffee County and Franklin County, TN.
Barksdale Air Force Base
Bossier City, LA.
Camp Dodge
Johnston, IA.
Camp Grayling
Grayling, MI.
Camp Shelby
Hattiesburg, MS.
Camp Williams
Bluffdale, UT.
Cannon Air Force Base
Clovis, NM.
Cape Canaveral Space Force Station
Cape Canaveral, FL.
Chocolate Mountain Aerial Gunnery Range
Niland, CA.
Columbus Air Force Base
Columbus, MS.
Dare County Range
Manns Harbor, NC.
Dover Air Force Base
Delmarva, DE.
Dyess Air Force Base
Abilene, TX.
Edwards Air Force Base
Edwards, CA.
Eglin Air Force Base
Valparaiso, FL.
Ellsworth Air Force Base
Box Elder, SD.
Fallon Range Complex
Fallon, NV.
Fort Greely
Delta Junction, AK.
Fort Huachuca
Sierra Vista, AZ.
Fort Irwin
San Bernardino County, CA.
Fort Johnson
Vernon Parish, LA.
Fort Liberty
Fayetteville, NC.
Fort Novosel
Dale County, AL.
Fort Wainwright
Fairbanks, AK.
Goodfellow Air Force Base
San Angelo, TX.
Grand Forks Air Force Base
Grand Forks, ND.
Hardwood Range
Necedah, WI.
Hill Air Force Base
Ogden, UT.
Joint Base Cape Cod
Sandwich, MA.
Joint Base Charleston
North Charleston, SC.
Joint Base San Antonio
San Antonio, TX.
Laughlin Air Force Base
Del Rio, TX.
Little Rock Air Force Base
Little Rock, AR.
Luke Air Force Base
Glendale, AZ.
Malmstrom Air Force Base
Great Falls, MT.
Maxwell-Gunter Air Force Base
Montgomery, AL.
Moody Air Force Base
Valdosta, GA.
Mountain Home Air Force Base
Mountain Home, ID.
Muscatatuck Urban Training Center
Butlerville, IN.
Naval Air Station Meridian
Meridian, MS.
Naval Air Station Patuxent River
Lexington Park, MD.
Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake
Ridgecrest, CA.
Naval Base Kitsap—Keyport
Keyport, WA.
Naval Base Ventura County—Point Mugu Operating Facility
Point Mugu, CA.
Naval Weapons Systems Training Facility Boardman
Boardman, OR.
Nellis Air Force Base
Las Vegas, NV.
Nevada Test and Training Range
Tonopah, NV.
Pacific Missile Range Facility
Kekaha, HI.
Patrick Space Force Base
Cocoa Beach, FL.
Redstone Arsenal
Huntsville, AL.
Schriever Space Force Base
Colorado Springs, CO.
Tinker Air Force Base
Midwest City, OK.
Townsend Bombing Range
McIntosh County, GA.
Tropic Regions Test Center
Wahiawa, HI.
Utah Test and Training Range
Barro, UT.
Vance Air Force Base
Enid, OK.
Vandenberg Space Force Base
Lompoc, CA.
West Desert Test Center
Dugway, UT.
White Sands Missile Range
White Sands Missile Range, NM.
Whiteman Air Force Base
Knob Noster, MO.
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
Dayton, OH.
Yuma Proving Ground
Yuma, AZ.
Site name
County
Township/range
Part 3
90th Missile Wing, Francis E. Warren Air Force Base Missile Field (Colorado, Nebraska, and Wyoming)
Logan, CO
All lands except those located south of Township 8 North and east of Range 51 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Morgan, CO
All lands located north of Township 3 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Sedgwick, CO
All lands except those located east of Range 46 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Washington, CO
All lands located north of Township 4 North, and west of Range 52 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Weld, CO
All lands located north of Township 4 North, and east of Range 64 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Banner, NE
All.
Cheyenne, NE
All.
Deuel, NE
All lands located south of Township 15 North, and west of Range 43 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Garden, NE
All lands located south of Township 19 North, and west Range 43 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Kimball, NE
All.
Morrill, NE
All lands except those located north of Township 21 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Scotts Bluff, NE
All.
Sioux, NE
All lands except those located north of Township 26 North, and east of Range 57 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Goshen, WY
All lands except those located north of Township 27 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Laramie, WY
All lands except those located south of Township 14 North, and west of Range 64 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Platte, WY
All lands except those located north of Township 27 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
341st Missile Wing, Malmstrom Air Force Base Missile Field (Montana)
Blaine, MT
All lands except those located north of Township 24 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Cascade, MT
All.
Chouteau, MT
All lands except those located north of Township 24 North, and east of Range 8 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Fergus, MT
All lands except those located east of Range 26 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Glacier, MT
All lands located south of Township 35 North, and east of Range 7 West, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Golden Valley, MT
All lands except those located south of Township 11 North, and east of Range 20 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Judith Basin, MT
All.
Lewis and Clark, MT
All lands except those located south of Township 14 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Liberty, MT
All lands except those located north of Township 31 North, and east of Range 5 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Meagher, MT
All lands except those located south of Township 12 North, and west of Range 9 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Musselshell, MT
All lands located north of Township 10 North, and west of Range 23 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Petroleum, MT
All lands located west of Range 27 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Phillips, MT
All lands located south of Township 23 North, and west of Range 25 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Pondera, MT
All lands except those located west of Range 9 West, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Stillwater, MT
All lands located north of Township 3 North, and west of Range 20 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Sweet Grass, MT
All lands located north of Township 3 North, and east of Range 12 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Teton, MT
All lands except those located west of Range 10 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Toole, MT
All lands except those located north of Township 34 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Wheatland, MT
All.
91st Missile Wing, Minot Air Force Base Missile Field (North Dakota)
Bottineau, ND
All lands except those located east of Range 77 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Burke, ND
All lands except those located west of Range 93 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Dunn, ND
All lands located north of Township 148 North, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
McHenry, ND
All lands except those located north of Township 156 North, and east of Range 80 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
McKenzie, ND
All lands located east of Range 95 West, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
McLean, ND
All lands except those located south of Township 145 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Mercer, ND
All lands located north of Township 145 North, east of Range 90 West, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Mountrail, ND
All.
Pierce, ND
All lands located south of Township 155 North, west of Range 72 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Renville, ND
All.
Sheridan, ND
All lands except those located south of Township 148 North, and east of Range 78 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Ward, ND
All lands except those located north of Township 155 North, and east of Range 83 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Williams, ND
All lands located south of Township 158 North, and east of Range 96 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Site name
Location
Part 4
Boston Range Complex
Offshore Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maine.
Boston Operating Area
Offshore Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maine.
Charleston Operating Area
Offshore North Carolina, South Carolina.
Cherry Point Operating Area
Offshore North Carolina, South Carolina.
Corpus Christi Operating Area
Offshore Texas.
Eglin Gulf Test and Training Range
Offshore Florida.
Gulf of Mexico Range Complex
Offshore Mississippi, Alabama, Florida.
Hawaii Range Complex
Offshore Hawaii.
Jacksonville Operating Area
Offshore Florida, Georgia.
Jacksonville Range Complex
Offshore Florida.
Key West Operating Area
Offshore Florida.
Key West Range Complex
Offshore Florida.
Narragansett Bay Range Complex
Offshore Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island.
Narragansett Bay Operating Area
Offshore Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island.
New Orleans Operating Area
Offshore Louisiana.
Northern California Range Complex
Offshore California.
Northwest Training Range Complex
Offshore Oregon, Washington.
Panama City Operating Area
Offshore Florida.
Pensacola Operating Area
Offshore Alabama, Florida.
Point Mugu Sea Range
Offshore California.
Southern California Range Complex
Offshore California.
Virginia Capes Operating Area
Offshore Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia.
Virginia Capes Range Complex
Offshore Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia.
[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 57350, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 88133, Nov. 7, 2024]
PARTS 803-849 [RESERVED]
Pt. 850

# PART 850—PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO U.S. INVESTMENTS IN CERTAIN NATIONAL SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS IN COUNTRIES OF CONCERN

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
850.101
Scope.
850.102
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
850.103
Rules of construction and interpretation.
850.104
Knowledge standard.

# Subpart B—Definitions
850.201
Advanced packaging.
850.202
AI system.
850.203
Certification.
850.204
Completion date.
850.205
Contingent equity interest.
850.206
Controlled foreign entity.
850.207
Country of concern.
850.208
Covered activity.
850.209
Covered foreign person.
850.210
Covered transaction.
850.211
Develop.
850.212
Entity.
850.213
Excepted transaction.
850.214
Fabricate.
850.215
Knowingly directing.
850.216
Knowledge.
850.217
Notifiable transaction.
850.218
Package.
850.219
Parent.
850.220
Person.
850.221
Person of a country of concern.
850.222
Principal place of business.
850.223
Produce.
850.224
Prohibited transaction.
850.225
Quantum computer.
850.226
Relevant agencies.
850.227
Subsidiary.
850.228
United States.
850.229
U.S. person.

# Subpart C—Prohibited Transactions and Other Prohibited Activities
850.301
Undertaking a prohibited transaction.
850.302
Actions of a controlled foreign entity.
850.303
Knowingly directing an otherwise prohibited transaction.

# Subpart D—Notifiable Transactions and Other Notifiable Activities
850.401
Undertaking a notifiable transaction.
850.402
Notification of actions of a controlled foreign entity.
850.403
Notification of post-transaction knowledge.
850.404
Procedures for notifications.
850.405
Content of notifications.
850.406
Notice of material omission or inaccuracy.

# Subpart E—Exceptions and Exemptions
850.501
Excepted transaction.
850.502
National interest exemption.
850.503
IEEPA statutory exception.

# Subpart F—Violations
850.601
Taking actions prohibited by this part.
850.602
Failure to fulfill requirements.
850.603
Misrepresentation, concealment, and omission of facts.
850.604
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Disclosures
850.701
Penalties.
850.702
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
850.703
Divestment.
850.704
Voluntary self-disclosure.

# Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information
850.801
Confidentiality.
850.802
Language of information.

# Subpart I—Other Provisions
850.901
Delegation of authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
850.902
Amendment, modification, or revocation.
850.903
Severability.
850.904
Reports to be furnished on demand.

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
E.O. 14105, 88 FR 54867, 31 U.S.C. 321.

# Source:
89 FR 90462, Nov. 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 850.101
Scope.
(a) This part implements Executive Order 14105 of August 9, 2023, “Addressing United States Investments in Certain National Security Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern” (the Order), directing the Secretary of the Treasury (the Secretary), in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies, to issue, subject to public notice and comment, regulations that require U.S. persons to provide notification of information relative to certain transactions involving covered foreign persons and that prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in certain other transactions involving covered foreign persons.
(b) The regulations identify certain types of transactions that are
covered transactions
—that is, transactions that are either notifiable or prohibited. Additionally, the regulations identify other instances where a U.S. person has obligations with respect to certain transactions. The regulations prescribe exceptions to the definition of
covered transaction.
A transaction that meets an exception is not a
covered transaction
and is referred to as an
excepted transaction.
Finally, the regulations prescribe a process for the Secretary to exempt certain
covered transactions
from the rules otherwise prohibiting or requiring notification of
covered transactions
on a case-by-case basis.
(c) The regulations identify categories of
covered transactions
that are
notifiable transactions.
A
notifiable transaction
is a transaction by a
U.S. person
or its
controlled foreign entity
with or resulting in the establishment of a
covered foreign person
that engages in a
covered activity
that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies,
has determined may contribute to the threat to the national security of the United States identified in the Order, or the engagement of a
person of a country of concern
in a
covered activity
that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies,
has determined may contribute to the threat to the national security of the United States identified in the Order. The regulations require a
U.S. person
to notify the Department of the Treasury of each such notifiable transaction by such
U.S. person
or its
controlled foreign entity.
The regulations also require a
U.S. person
to provide prompt notice to the Department of the Treasury upon acquiring actual knowledge after the
completion date
of a transaction of facts or circumstances that would have caused the transaction to be a
covered transaction
if the
U.S. person
had had such knowledge on the
completion date.
Additionally, any person who makes a representation, statement, or certification under this part
is required to promptly notify the Department of the Treasury upon learning of a material omission or inaccuracy in such representation, statement, or certification.
(d) The regulations identify categories of
covered transactions
that are
prohibited transactions.
A
prohibited transaction
is a transaction by a
U.S. person
with or resulting in the establishment of a
covered foreign person
that engages in a
covered activity
that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies,
has determined poses a particularly acute national security threat because of its potential to significantly advance the military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of a
country of concern,
or engagement of a
person of a country of concern
in a
covered activity
that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies,
has determined poses a particularly acute national security threat because of its potential to significantly advance the military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of a
country of concern.
The regulations prohibit a
U.S. person
from engaging in a
prohibited transaction
and also prohibit a
U.S. person
from
knowingly directing
a transaction that the
U.S. person
knows would be a
prohibited transaction
if engaged in by a
U.S. person.
The regulations also require a
U.S. person
to take all reasonable steps to prohibit and prevent any transaction by its
controlled foreign entity
that would be a
prohibited transaction
if undertaken by a
U.S. person.
(e) Pursuant to the Order, the Secretary shall, as appropriate:
(1) Communicate with the Congress and the public with respect to the implementation of the Order;
(2) Consult with the Secretary of Commerce on industry engagement and analysis of notifiable transactions;
(3) Consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, and the Director of National Intelligence on the implications for military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of covered national security technologies and products in the Order and potential covered national security technologies and products;
(4) Engage, together with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, with allies and partners regarding the national security risks posed by countries of concern advancing covered national security technologies and products;
(5) Consult with the Secretary of State on foreign policy considerations related to the implementation of the Order, including but not limited to the issuance and amendment of regulations; and
(6) Investigate, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, as appropriate, violations of the Order or the regulations in this part and pursue available civil penalties for such violations.
§ 850.102
Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.
Nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, license, authorization, or review provided by or established under any other provision of Federal law, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States. This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this subtitle. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of the same or similar language among the parts of this subtitle. No action taken pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation, including the other parts of this subtitle, authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part or alters any other obligation under this part. No action taken pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
§ 850.103
Rules of construction and interpretation.
(a) As used in this part, the term “including” (or variations such as “include”) means “including but not limited to.”
(b) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate.
(c) Section headings are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this part.
§ 850.104
Knowledge standard.
(a) Certain provisions of this part apply only if a U.S. person
knows
of a fact or circumstance. The term
knowledge
is defined in § 850.216. In determining whether a U.S. person is complying with this part or has violated any obligation under this part, the Department of the Treasury will assess whether such person has or had knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances at the specified time.
(b) Such assessment as to whether, at the time of a given transaction, a U.S. person has or had knowledge of a given fact or circumstance will be made based on information a U.S. person had or could have had through a reasonable and diligent inquiry. A U.S. person that has failed to conduct a reasonable and diligent inquiry by the time of a given transaction may be assessed to have had reason to know of a given fact or circumstance, including facts or circumstances that would cause the transaction to be a covered transaction.
(c) In assessing whether a U.S. person has undertaken such a reasonable and diligent inquiry, the Department of the Treasury's considerations will include the following, as applicable, among others that the Department of the Treasury deems relevant, with respect to a particular transaction:
(1) The inquiry a U.S. person has made regarding an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner), including questions asked of the investment target or relevant counterparty, as of the time of the transaction;
(2) The contractual representations or warranties the U.S. person has obtained or attempted to obtain from the investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner) with respect to the determination of a transaction's status as a covered transaction and status of an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner) as a covered foreign person;
(3) The efforts by the U.S. person as of the time of the transaction to obtain and consider available non-public information relevant to the determination of a transaction's status as a covered transaction and the status of an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner) as a covered foreign person;
(4) Available public information, the efforts undertaken by the U.S. person to obtain and consider such information, and the degree to which other information available to the U.S. person as of the time of the transaction is consistent or inconsistent with such publicly available information;
(5) Whether the U.S. person purposefully avoided learning or seeking relevant information;
(6) The presence or absence of warning signs, which may include evasive responses or non-responses from an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner) to questions or a refusal to provide information, contractual representations, or warranties; and
(7) The use of available public and commercial databases to identify and verify relevant information of an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner).
(d) An assessment of whether a U.S. person has undertaken a reasonable and diligent inquiry shall be based on a consideration of the totality of relevant facts and circumstances.

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 850.201
Advanced packaging.
The term
advanced packaging
means to package integrated circuits in a
manner that supports the two-and-one-half-dimensional (2.5D) or three-dimensional (3D) assembly of integrated circuits, such as by directly attaching one or more die or wafer using through-silicon vias, die or wafer bonding, heterogeneous integration, or other advanced methods and materials.
§ 850.202
AI system.
The term
AI system
means:
(a) A machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing real or virtual environments—
i.e.,
a system that:
(1) Uses data inputs to perceive real and virtual environments;
(2) Abstracts such perceptions into models through automated or algorithmic statistical analysis; and
(3) Uses model inference to make a classification, prediction, recommendation, or decision.
(b) Any data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or utility that operates in whole or in part using a system described in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 850.203
Certification.
(a) The term
certification
means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of the person filing a notification or providing other information that certifies under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notification or other information filed or provided:
(1) Fully complies with the regulations in this part; and
(2) Is accurate and complete in all material respects to the best knowledge of the person filing a notification or other information.
(b) For purposes of this section, a duly authorized designee is:
(1) In the case of a partnership, any general partner thereof;
(2) In the case of a corporation, any officer thereof; and
(3) In the case of any entity lacking partners and officers, any individual within the organization exercising executive functions similar to those of a general partner of a partnership or an officer of a corporation or otherwise authorized by the board of directors or equivalent to provide such certification.
(c) In each case described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, such designee must possess actual authority to make the certification on behalf of the person filing a notification or other information.

# Note 1 to § 850.203:
A template for certifications may be found at the Outbound Investment Security Program section of the Department of the Treasury website.
§ 850.204
Completion date.
The term
completion date
means:
(a) With respect to a covered transaction other than under § 850.210(a)(6), the earliest date upon which any interest, asset, property, or right is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to a U.S. person, or as applicable, its controlled foreign entity; or
(b) With respect to a covered transaction under § 850.210(a)(6), the earliest date upon which any interest, asset, property, or right in the relevant covered foreign person is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to the applicable fund.
§ 850.205
Contingent equity interest.
The term
contingent equity interest
means a financial interest (including debt) that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event or at the discretion of the
U.S. person
that holds the financial interest.
§ 850.206
Controlled foreign entity.
(a) The term
controlled foreign entity
means any entity incorporated in, or otherwise organized under the laws of, a country other than the United States of which a U.S. person is a parent.
(b) For purposes of this term, the following rules shall apply in determining whether an entity is a parent of another entity in a tiered ownership structure:
(1) Where the relationship between an entity and another entity is that of parent and subsidiary, the holdings of voting interest or voting power of the
board, as applicable, of a subsidiary shall be fully attributed to the parent.
(2) Where the relationship between an entity and another entity is not that of parent and subsidiary (
i.e.,
because the holdings of voting interest or voting power of the board, as applicable, of the first entity in the second entity is 50 percent or less), then the indirect downstream holdings of voting interest or voting power of the board, as applicable, attributed to the first entity shall be determined proportionately.
(3) Where the circumstances in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section apply (
i.e.,
because a U.S. person holds both direct and indirect downstream holdings in the same entity), any holdings of voting interest shall be aggregated for the purposes of applying this definition, and any holdings of voting power of the board shall be aggregated for the purposes of applying this definition. Voting interest shall not be aggregated with voting power of the board for the purposes of applying this definition.
§ 850.207
Country of concern.
The term
country of concern
has the meaning given to it in the Annex to the Order.
§ 850.208
Covered activity.
The term
covered activity
means, in the context of a particular transaction, any of the activities referred to in the definition of notifiable transaction in § 850.217 or prohibited transaction in § 850.224.
§ 850.209
Covered foreign person.
(a) The term
covered foreign person
means:
(1) A person of a country of concern that engages in a covered activity; or
(2) A person that directly or indirectly holds a board seat on, a voting or equity interest (other than through securities or interests that would satisfy the conditions in § 850.501(a) if held by a U.S. person) in, or any contractual power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of any person or persons described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from or through which it:
(i) Derives more than 50 percent of its revenue individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it derives at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its revenue, on an annual basis;
(ii) Derives more than 50 percent of its net income individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it derives at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its net income, on an annual basis;
(iii) Incurs more than 50 percent of its capital expenditure individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it incurs at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its capital expenditure, on an annual basis; or
(iv) Incurs more than 50 percent of its operating expenses individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it incurs at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its operating expenses, on an annual basis.
(3) With respect to a covered transaction described in § 850.210(a)(5), the person of a country of concern that participates in the joint venture is deemed to be a covered foreign person by virtue of its participation in the joint venture.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(1) Calculations shall be based on an audited financial statement from the most recent year. If an audited financial statement is not available, the most recent unaudited financial statement shall be used instead. If no financial statement is available, an independent appraisal shall be used instead. If no independent appraisal is available, a good-faith estimate shall be used instead.
(2) Where an amount is not denominated in U.S. dollars, the U.S. dollar equivalent shall be determined based on the most recent published rate of exchange available on the Department of the Treasury's website.

# Note 1 to § 850.209:
References in this section to revenue, net income, capital expenditure, or operating expenses refer to overall revenue, net income, capital expenditure, or operating expenses, as applicable, without subtracting amounts attributable to persons described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section of less than $50,000 (or equivalent).
§ 850.210
Covered transaction.
(a) The term
covered transaction
means a U.S. person's direct or indirect:
(1) Acquisition of an equity interest or contingent equity interest in a person that the U.S. person knows at the time of the acquisition is a covered foreign person;
(2) Provision of a loan or a similar debt financing arrangement to a person that the U.S. person knows at the time of the provision is a covered foreign person, where such debt financing affords or will afford the U.S. person an interest in profits of the covered foreign person, the right to appoint members of the board of directors (or equivalent) of the covered foreign person, or other comparable financial or governance rights characteristic of an equity investment but not typical of a loan;
(3) Conversion of a contingent equity interest into an equity interest in a person that the U.S. person knows at the time of the conversion is a covered foreign person, where the contingent equity interest was acquired by the U.S. person on or after January 2, 2025;
(4) Acquisition, leasing, or other development of operations, land, property, or other assets in a country of concern that the U.S. person knows at the time of such acquisition, leasing, or other development will result in, or that the U.S. person plans to result in:
(i) The establishment of a covered foreign person; or
(ii) The engagement of a person of a country of concern in a covered activity;
(5) Entrance into a joint venture, wherever located, that is formed with a person of a country of concern, and that the subject U.S. person knows at the time of entrance into the joint venture that the joint venture will engage, or plans to engage, in a covered activity; or
(6) Acquisition of a limited partner or equivalent interest in a venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund (in each case where the fund is not a U.S. person) that a U.S. person knows at the time of the acquisition likely will invest in a person of a country of concern that is in the semiconductors and microelectronics, quantum information technologies, or artificial intelligence sectors, and such fund undertakes a transaction that would be a covered transaction if undertaken by a U.S. person.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a transaction is not a covered transaction if it is:
(1) An excepted transaction as set forth in § 850.501; or
(2) For the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
(c) The acquisition of a contingent interest described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may constitute a covered transaction, and the subsequent occurrence of a conversion event described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section may constitute a separate covered transaction. A U.S. person should assess each of the acquisition and the conversion to determine the applicability of this part.

# Note 1 to § 850.210:
An indirect covered transaction includes a U.S. person's use of an intermediary to engage in a transaction that would be a covered transaction if engaged in directly by a U.S. person. However, for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a U.S. person is not considered to have acquired an indirect equity interest or contingent equity interest in a covered foreign person when the U.S. person acquires a limited partner or equivalent interest in a venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund and that fund then acquires an equity interest or contingent equity interest in a covered foreign person. (A U.S. person's acquisition of a limited partner or equivalent interest in a non-U.S. person venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund may, however, be a covered transaction under paragraph (a)(6) of this section.)

# Note 2 to § 850.210:
Neither the issuance of a secured loan or similar debt financing for which equity is pledged as collateral, nor the acquisition of such secured debt on the secondary market, is an acquisition of an equity interest. However, foreclosure on collateral where the debtholder takes possession of the pledged equity is an acquisition of an equity interest;
provided that
such an acquisition is not a covered transaction where the equity was pledged prior to January 2, 2025, or where the U.S. person did not know at the time of issuing or acquiring the debt that the pledged equity was in a covered foreign person.
§ 850.211
Develop.
Except as used in § 850.210(a)(4), the term
develop
means to engage in any stages prior to serial production, such as design or substantive modification, design research, design analyses, design concepts, assembly and testing of prototypes, pilot production schemes, design data, process of transforming design data into a product, configuration design, integration design, and layouts.
§ 850.212
Entity.
The term
entity
means any branch, partnership, association, estate, joint venture, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, group, sub-group, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state).
§ 850.213
Excepted transaction.
The term
excepted transaction
means a transaction that meets the criteria in § 850.501.
§ 850.214
Fabricate.
The term
fabricate
means to form devices such as transistors, poly capacitors, non-metal resistors, and diodes on a wafer of semiconductor material.
§ 850.215
Knowingly directing.
The term
knowingly directing
has the definition set forth in § 850.303.
§ 850.216
Knowledge.
Knowledge of a fact or circumstance (the term may be a variant, such as “know”) means:
(a) Actual knowledge that a fact or circumstance exists or is substantially certain to occur;
(b) An awareness of a high probability of a fact or circumstance's existence or future occurrence; or
(c) Reason to know of a fact or circumstance's existence.

# Note 1 to § 850.216:
See the discussion of the knowledge standard in § 850.104 for more information about how this term is applied in this part.
§ 850.217
Notifiable transaction.
The term
notifiable transaction
means a covered transaction (that is not a prohibited transaction) in which the relevant covered foreign person or, with respect to a covered transaction described in § 850.210(a)(5), the relevant joint venture:
(a) Designs any integrated circuit that is not described in § 850.224(c);
(b) Fabricates any integrated circuit that is not described in § 850.224(d);
(c) Packages any integrated circuit that is not described in § 850.224(e);
(d) Develops any AI system that is not described in § 850.224(j) or (k) and that is:
(1) Designed to be used for any military end use (
e.g.,
for weapons targeting, target identification, combat simulation, military vehicle or weapons control, military decision-making, weapons design (including chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons), or combat system logistics and maintenance); or government intelligence or mass-surveillance end use (
e.g.,
through incorporation of features such as mining text, audio, or video; image recognition; location tracking; or surreptitious listening devices);
(2) Intended by the covered foreign person or joint venture to be used for any of the following:
(i) Cybersecurity applications;
(ii) Digital forensics tools;
(iii) Penetration testing tools; or
(iv) The control of robotic systems; or
(3) Trained using a quantity of computing power greater than 10^23 computational operations (
e.g.,
integer or floating-point operations).

# Note 1 to § 850.217:
Consistent with section 3 of the Order, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, shall periodically assess whether the criterion described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section is serving to effectively address threats to the national security of the United States described in the Order and make updates, as appropriate, through public notice.

# Note 2 to § 850.217:
Consistent with the definition for develop at § 850.211, to develop an AI system defined at § 850.202(b) in a manner subject to these notification requirements, the relevant covered foreign person or joint venture must engage in the activities enumerated in § 850.211, such as design or substantive modification, with respect to the third-party AI model or machine-based system that is being used by a data system,
software, hardware, application, tool, or utility to operate in whole or in part.

# Note 3 to § 850.217:
For purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, a person customizing, configuring, or fine-tuning a third-party AI model or machine-based system strictly for its own internal, non-commercial use (
e.g.,
not for sale or licensing) would not implicate the notification requirements for related transactions solely on that basis unless the person's internal, non-commercial use is for government intelligence, mass-surveillance, or military end use, or for digital forensics tools, penetration testing tools, or the control of robotic systems.
§ 850.218
Package.
The term
package
means to assemble various components, such as the integrated circuit die, lead frames, interconnects, and substrate materials to safeguard the semiconductor device and provide electrical connections between different parts of the die.
§ 850.219
Parent.
The term
parent
means, with respect to an entity:
(a) A person who or which directly or indirectly holds more than 50 percent of:
(1) The outstanding voting interest in the entity; or
(2) The voting power of the board of the entity;
(b) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity; or
(c) The investment adviser to any entity that is a pooled investment fund, with “investment adviser” as defined in the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)).

# Note 1 to § 850.219:
Any entity that meets the conditions of paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section with respect to another entity is the parent, even if the parent entity is an intermediate entity and not the ultimate parent.
§ 850.220
Person.
The term
person
means any individual or entity.
§ 850.221
Person of a country of concern.
The term
person of a country of concern
means:
(a) Any individual that:
(1) Is a citizen or permanent resident of a country of concern;
(2) Is not a U.S. citizen; and
(3) Is not a permanent resident of the United States;
(b) An entity with a principal place of business in, headquartered in, or incorporated in or otherwise organized under the laws of, a country of concern;
(c) The government of a country of concern, including any political subdivision, political party, agency, or instrumentality thereof; any person acting for or on behalf of the government of a country of concern; or any entity with respect to which the government of a country of concern holds individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more of the entity's outstanding voting interest, voting power of the board, or equity interest, or otherwise possesses the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity (whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise);
(d) Any entity in which one or more persons identified in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, holds at least 50 percent of any of the following interests of such entity: outstanding voting interest, voting power of the board, or equity interest; or
(e) Any entity in which one or more persons identified in paragraph (d) of this section, individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, holds at least 50 percent of any of the following interests of such entity: outstanding voting interest, voting power of the board, or equity interest.
§ 850.222
Principal place of business.
The term
principal place of business
means the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.
§ 850.223
Produce.
The term
produce
means to engage in any of the post-development stages of realizing the relevant technology or
product, such as engineering, manufacture, integration, assembly, inspection, testing, and quality assurance.
§ 850.224
Prohibited transaction.
The term
prohibited transaction
means a covered transaction in which the relevant covered foreign person or, with respect to a covered transaction described in § 850.210(a)(5), the relevant joint venture:
(a) Develops or produces any electronic design automation software for the design of integrated circuits or advanced packaging;
(b) Develops or produces any:
(1) Front-end semiconductor fabrication equipment designed for performing the volume fabrication of integrated circuits, including equipment used in the production stages from a blank wafer or substrate to a completed wafer or substrate (
i.e.,
the integrated circuits are processed but they are still on the wafer or substrate);
(2) Equipment for performing volume advanced packaging; or
(3) Commodity, material, software, or technology designed exclusively for use in or with extreme ultraviolet lithography fabrication equipment.
(c) Designs any integrated circuit that meets or exceeds the performance parameters in Export Control Classification Number 3A090.a in supplement No. 1 to 15 CFR part 774, or integrated circuits designed for operation at or below 4.5 Kelvin;
(d) Fabricates any of the following:
(1) Logic integrated circuits using a non-planar transistor architecture or with a production technology node of 16/14 nanometers or less, including fully depleted silicon-on-insulator (FDSOI) integrated circuits;
(2) NOT-AND (NAND) memory integrated circuits with 128 layers or more;
(3) Dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) integrated circuits using a technology node of 18 nanometer half-pitch or less;
(4) Integrated circuits manufactured from a gallium-based compound semiconductor;
(5) Integrated circuits using graphene transistors or carbon nanotubes; or
(6) Integrated circuits designed for operation at or below 4.5 Kelvin;
(e) Packages any integrated circuit using advanced packaging techniques;
(f) Develops, installs, sells, or produces any supercomputer enabled by advanced integrated circuits that can provide a theoretical compute capacity of 100 or more double-precision (64-bit) petaflops or 200 or more single-precision (32-bit) petaflops of processing power within a 41,600 cubic foot or smaller envelope;
(g) Develops a quantum computer or produces any of the critical components required to produce a quantum computer such as a dilution refrigerator or two-stage pulse tube cryocooler;
(h) Develops or produces any quantum sensing platform designed for, or which the relevant covered foreign person intends to be used for, any military, government intelligence, or mass-surveillance end use;
(i) Develops or produces any quantum network or quantum communication system designed for, or which the relevant covered foreign person intends to be used for:
(1) Networking to scale up the capabilities of quantum computers, such as for the purposes of breaking or compromising encryption;
(2) Secure communications, such as quantum key distribution; or
(3) Any other application that has any military, government intelligence, or mass-surveillance end use;
(j) Develops any AI system that is designed to be exclusively used for, or which the relevant covered foreign person intends to be used for, any:
(1) Military end use (
e.g.,
for weapons targeting, target identification, combat simulation, military vehicle or weapon control, military decision-making, weapons design (including chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons), or combat system logistics and maintenance); or
(2) Government intelligence or mass-surveillance end use (
e.g.,
through incorporation of features such as mining text, audio, or video; image recognition; location tracking; or surreptitious listening devices);
(k) Develops any AI system that is trained using a quantity of computing power greater than:
(1) 10^25 computational operations (
e.g.,
integer or floating-point operations); or
(2) 10^24 computational operations (
e.g.,
integer or floating-point operations) using primarily biological sequence data;
(l) Meets the conditions set forth in § 850.209(a)(2) because of its relationship to one or more covered foreign persons engaged in any covered activity described in any of paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section; or
(m) Engages in a covered activity, whether referenced in this section or § 850.217 and is:
(1) Included on the Bureau of Industry and Security's Entity List (15 CFR part 744, supplement no. 4);
(2) Included on the Bureau of Industry and Security's Military End User List (15 CFR part 744, supplement no. 7);
(3) Meets the definition of “Military Intelligence End-User” by the Bureau of Industry and Security in 15 CFR 744.22(f)(2);
(4) Included on the Department of the Treasury's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List), or is an entity in which one or more individuals or entities included on the SDN List, individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, own a 50 percent or greater interest;
(5) Included on the Department of the Treasury's list of Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies (NS-CMIC List); or
(6) Designated as a foreign terrorist organization by the Secretary of State under 8 U.S.C. 1189.

# Note 1 to § 850.224:
Consistent with section 3 of the Order, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, shall periodically assess whether the criterion described in paragraph (k) of this section is serving to effectively address threats to the national security of the United States described in the Order and make updates, as appropriate, through public notice.

# Note 2 to § 850.224:
Consistent with the definition for develop at § 850.211, to develop an AI system defined at § 850.202(b) in a manner subject to these prohibition requirements, the relevant covered foreign person or joint venture must engage in the activities enumerated in § 850.211, such as design or substantive modification, with respect to the third-party AI model or machine-based system that is being used by a data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or utility to operate in whole or in part.

# Note 3 to § 850.224:
For purposes of paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section, a person customizing, configuring, or fine-tuning a third-party AI model or machine-based system strictly for its own internal, non-commercial use (
e.g.,
not for sale or licensing) would not implicate a prohibition for related transactions solely on that basis unless the person's internal, non-commercial use is for government intelligence, mass-surveillance, or military end use, or for digital forensics tools, penetration testing tools, or the control of robotic systems.
§ 850.225
Quantum computer.
The term
quantum computer
means a computer that performs computations that harness the collective properties of quantum states, such as superposition, interference, or entanglement.
§ 850.226
Relevant agencies.
The term
relevant agencies
means the Departments of State, Defense, Justice, Commerce, Energy, and Homeland Security, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Office of the National Cyber Director, and any other department, agency, or office the Secretary determines appropriate.
§ 850.227
Subsidiary.
The term
subsidiary
means, with respect to a person, an entity of which such person is a parent.
§ 850.228
United States.
The term
United States
or
U.S.
means the United States of America, the States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States of America, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States of America. For purposes of this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”
§ 850.229
U.S. person.
The term
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including any foreign branch of any such entity, or any person in the United States.

# Subpart C—Prohibited Transactions and Other Prohibited Activities
§ 850.301
Undertaking a prohibited transaction.
A U.S. person may not engage in a prohibited transaction unless an exemption for that transaction has been granted under § 850.502.
§ 850.302
Actions of a controlled foreign entity.
(a) A U.S. person shall take all reasonable steps to prohibit and prevent any transaction by its controlled foreign entity that would be a prohibited transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person.
(b) If a controlled foreign entity engages in a transaction that would be a prohibited transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person, in determining whether the relevant U.S. person took all reasonable steps to prohibit and prevent such transaction, the Department of the Treasury will consider, among other factors, any of the following with respect to a U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity:
(1) The execution of agreements with respect to compliance with this part between the subject U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity;
(2) The existence and exercise of governance or shareholder rights by the U.S. person with respect to the controlled foreign entity, where applicable;
(3) The existence and implementation of periodic training and internal reporting requirements by the U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity with respect to compliance with this part;
(4) The implementation of appropriate and documented internal controls, including internal policies, procedures, or guidelines that are periodically reviewed internally, by the U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity; and
(5) Implementation of a documented testing and/or auditing process of internal policies, procedures, or guidelines.

# Note 1 to § 850.302:
Findings of violations of this section and decisions related to enforcement and penalties will be made based on a consideration of the totality of relevant facts and circumstances, including whether the U.S. person has taken the steps described in paragraph (b) of this section and whether such steps were reasonable in light of the relevant facts and circumstances.
§ 850.303
Knowingly directing an otherwise prohibited transaction.
(a) A U.S. person is prohibited from knowingly directing a transaction by a non-U.S. person that the U.S. person knows at the time of the transaction would be a prohibited transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person. For purposes of this section, a U.S. person “knowingly directs” a transaction when the U.S. person has authority, individually or as part of a group, to make or substantially participate in decisions on behalf of a non-U.S. person, and exercises that authority to direct, order, decide upon, or approve a transaction. Such authority exists when a U.S. person is an officer, director, or otherwise possesses executive responsibilities at a non-U.S. person.
(b) A U.S. person that has the authority described in paragraph (a) of this section and recuses themself from each of the following activities will not be considered to have exercised their authority to direct, order, decide upon, or approve a transaction:
(1) Participating in formal approval and decision-making processes related to the transaction, including making a recommendation;
(2) Reviewing, editing, commenting on, approving, and signing relevant transaction documents; and
(3) Engaging in negotiations with the investment target (or, as applicable, the relevant transaction counterparty, such as a joint venture partner).

# Subpart D—Notifiable Transactions and Other Notifiable Activities
§ 850.401
Undertaking a notifiable transaction.
A U.S. person that undertakes a notifiable transaction shall file a notification of that transaction with the Department of the Treasury pursuant to § 850.404.
§ 850.402
Notification of actions of a controlled foreign entity.
A U.S. person shall file a notification with the Department of the Treasury pursuant to § 850.404 with respect to any transaction by a controlled foreign entity of that U.S. person that would be a notifiable transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person.
§ 850.403
Notification of post-transaction knowledge.
A U.S. person that acquires actual knowledge after the completion date of a transaction of a fact or circumstance such that the transaction would have been a covered transaction if such knowledge had been possessed by the relevant U.S. person at the time of the transaction shall promptly, and in no event later than 30 calendar days following the acquisition of such knowledge, submit a notification pursuant to § 850.404. This requirement applies regardless of whether the transaction would have been a notifiable transaction or a prohibited transaction.

# Note 1 to § 850.403:
A U.S. person's submission of a notification pursuant to this section shall not preclude a finding by the Department of the Treasury that as a factual matter the U.S. person had relevant knowledge of the transaction's status at the time of the transaction.
§ 850.404
Procedures for notifications.
(a) A U.S. person that has an obligation under § 850.401, § 850.402, or § 850.403 shall file an electronic copy of the notification of the transaction with the Department of the Treasury including the information set out in § 850.405 and the certification referred to in § 850.203. The U.S. person shall follow the electronic filing instructions posted on the Department of the Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website. No communications or submissions other than those described in this section shall constitute the filing of a notification for purposes of this part.
(b) The Department of the Treasury may contact a U.S. person that has filed a notification with questions or document requests related to the transaction or compliance with this part. The U.S. person shall respond to any such questions or requests within the time frame and in the manner specified by the Department of the Treasury. Information and other documents provided by the U.S. person to the Department of the Treasury after the filing of the notification under this section shall be deemed part of the notification and shall be subject to the certification referred to in § 850.203.
(c) A U.S. person shall file a notification under § 850.401 or § 850.402 with the Department of the Treasury no later than 30 calendar days following the completion date of a notifiable transaction. A U.S. person shall file a notification required under § 850.403 with the Department of the Treasury no later than 30 calendar days after it acquires the knowledge referred to in § 850.403.
(d) If a U.S. person files a notification prior to the completion date of the notifiable transaction, the U.S. person shall update such notification no later than 30 calendar days following the completion date of the notifiable transaction if information in the original filing has materially changed.
(e) A U.S. person shall inform the Department of the Treasury in writing no later than 30 calendar days following the acquisition of previously unavailable information required under § 850.405.

# Note 1 to § 850.404:
While the Department of the Treasury may engage with the U.S. person following notification, it is also possible the U.S. person will receive no communication from the Department of the Treasury other than an electronic acknowledgment of receipt after notification is submitted.
§ 850.405
Content of notifications.
(a) A U.S. person that has an obligation under this part to file a notification shall provide the information set
forth in this section, which must be accurate and complete in all material respects, subject to paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) A notification shall provide, as applicable:
(1) The contact information of a representative of the U.S. person filing the notification who is available to communicate with the Department of the Treasury about the notification including such representative's name, title, email address, mailing address, phone number, and employer;
(2) A description of the U.S. person, including name, and as applicable, principal place of business and place of incorporation or legal organization, company address, website, and, if the U.S. person is an entity, such U.S. person's ultimate owner;
(3) A post-transaction organizational chart of the U.S. person that includes the name and principal place of business and place of incorporation or legal organization of the intermediate and ultimate parent entities of the U.S. person, identifies the U.S. person's relationship with any controlled foreign entity or entities of the U.S. person, and identifies the covered foreign person and other relevant persons involved in the transaction;
(4) A brief description of the commercial rationale for the transaction;
(5) A brief description of why the U.S. person has determined the transaction is a covered transaction that includes a discussion of the nature of the transaction, its structure, reference to the paragraph of § 850.210(a) that best describes the transaction type, and whether the notification is being submitted pursuant to § 850.401, § 850.402, or § 850.403.
(6) The status of the transaction, including the actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(7) The total transaction value in U.S. dollars or U.S. dollar equivalent, an explanation of how the transaction value was determined, and a description of the consideration for the transaction (including cash, securities, other assets, and debt forgiveness);
(8) The aggregate equity interest, voting interest, board seats (or equivalent holdings) of the U.S. person and its affiliates in the covered foreign person (or in the joint venture, as applicable) following the completion date of the transaction, including a description of any agreements or commitments for future investment or options to make future investments in the covered foreign person (or joint venture);
(9) Information about the covered foreign person, including its name, and as applicable, principal place of business and place of incorporation or legal organization, company address, website, and if the covered foreign person is an entity, such covered foreign person's ultimate owner, and the full legal names and titles of each officer, director, and other member of management of the covered foreign person, and a post-transaction organizational chart of the covered foreign person that includes the name and principal place of business and place of incorporation or legal organization of the intermediate and ultimate parent entities of the covered foreign person;
(10) Identification and description of each of the covered activity or activities undertaken by the covered foreign person that makes the transaction a covered transaction, as well as a brief description of the known end use(s) and end user(s) of the covered foreign person's technology, products, or services;
(11) A statement describing the attributes that cause the entity to be a covered foreign person, and any other relevant information regarding the covered foreign person and covered activity or activities;
(12) If a transaction involves a covered activity identified in § 850.217(a), (b), or (c), identification of the technology node(s) at which any applicable product is produced; and
(13) If the notification is required under § 850.403:
(i) Identification of the fact or circumstance of which the U.S. person acquired knowledge post-transaction;
(ii) The date upon which the U.S. person acquired such knowledge;
(iii) A statement explaining why the U.S. person did not possess or obtain such knowledge at the time of the transaction; and
(iv) A description of any pre-transaction diligence undertaken by the U.S. person, including, as applicable, any steps described in § 850.104(c).
(c) The U.S. person shall maintain a copy of the notification filed and supporting documentation for a period of ten years from the date of the filing. Such supporting documentation shall include, as applicable, any pitch decks, marketing letters, and offering memorandums; transaction documents including side letters and investment agreements; and due diligence materials related to the transaction. The U.S. person shall make all supporting documentation available upon request by the Department of the Treasury.
(d) If the U.S. person does not provide responses to the information required in paragraph (b) of this section, the U.S. person shall provide sufficient explanation for why the information is unavailable or otherwise cannot be obtained and explain the U.S. person's efforts to obtain such information. If such information subsequently becomes available, the U.S. person shall provide such information to the Department of the Treasury promptly, and no later than 30 calendar days following the availability of such information.
§ 850.406
Notice of material omission or inaccuracy.
A person who has made any representation, statement, or certification subject to this part shall inform the Department of the Treasury in writing promptly, and in no event later than 30 calendar days after learning of a material omission or inaccuracy in such representation, statement, or certification.

# Subpart E—Exceptions and Exemptions
§ 850.501
Excepted transaction.
A transaction that would be either a prohibited transaction or a notifiable transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person but for this section is not a prohibited transaction or a notifiable transaction, as applicable, if the conditions set forth in this section are met. In that case, the transaction is an excepted transaction. The following transactions are excepted transactions:
(a)(1) An investment by a U.S. person:
(i) In any publicly traded security, with “security” as defined in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10), denominated in any currency, and that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as “over-the-counter,” in any jurisdiction;
(ii) In a security issued by:
(A) Any “investment company” as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, at 15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1), that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, such as index funds, mutual funds, or exchange traded funds; or
(B) Any company that has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, at 15 U.S.C. 80a-53;
(iii) Made as a limited partner or equivalent in a venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund other than as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section where:
(A) The limited partner or equivalent's committed capital is not more than $2,000,000, aggregated across any investment and co-investment vehicles of the fund; or
(B) The limited partner or equivalent has secured a binding contractual assurance that its capital in the fund will not be used to engage in a transaction that would be a prohibited transaction or notifiable transaction, as applicable, if engaged in by a U.S. person; or
(iv) In a derivative, so long as such derivative does not confer the right to acquire equity, any rights associated with equity, or any assets in or of a covered foreign person.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an investment is not an excepted transaction if it affords the U.S. person rights beyond standard minority shareholder protections with respect to the covered foreign person. Such standard minority shareholder protections include:
(i) The power to prevent the sale or pledge of all or substantially all of the
assets of an entity or a voluntary filing for bankruptcy or liquidation;
(ii) The power to prevent an entity from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates;
(iii) The power to prevent an entity from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates;
(iv) The right to purchase an additional interest in an entity to prevent the dilution of an investor's pro rata interest in that entity in the event that the entity issues additional instruments conveying interests in the entity;
(v) The power to prevent the change of existing legal rights or preferences of the particular class of stock held by minority investors, as provided in the relevant corporate documents governing such stock; and
(vi) The power to prevent the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of an entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section;
(b) The acquisition by a U.S. person of equity or other interests in an entity held by one or more persons of a country of concern;
provided that:
(1) The U.S. person is acquiring all equity or other interests in such entity held by all persons of a country of concern; and
(2) Following such acquisition, the entity does not constitute a covered foreign person;
(c) A transaction that, but for this paragraph, would be a covered transaction between a U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity that supports operations that are not covered activities or that maintains covered activities that the controlled foreign entity was engaged in prior to January 2, 2025;
(d) A transaction made after January 2, 2025, pursuant to a binding, uncalled capital commitment entered into before January 2, 2025;
(e) The acquisition of a voting interest in a covered foreign person by a U.S. person upon default or other condition involving a loan or a similar financing arrangement, where the loan was made by a syndicate of banks in a loan participation where the U.S. person lender(s) in the syndicate:
(1) Cannot on its own initiate any action vis-à-vis the debtor; and
(2) Is not the syndication agent;
(f) The receipt of employment compensation by an individual in the form of an award of equity or the grant of an option to purchase equity in a covered foreign person, or the exercise of such option; or
(g)(1) A transaction that is:
(i) With or involving a person of a country or territory outside of the United States designated by the Secretary, after taking into account whether the country or territory is addressing national security risks substantially similar to those described in the Order and related to outbound investment; and
(ii) Of a type for which the Secretary has determined that the related national security concerns are likely to be adequately addressed by measures taken or that may be taken by the government of the relevant country or territory.
(2) Prior to making a designation or determination under this paragraph (g), the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies.
(3) The Secretary's designations and determinations under paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be made available through public notice.
(4) The Secretary may rescind a designation or determination under paragraph (g)(1) of this section if the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, Secretary of Commerce, and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, determines that such a rescission is appropriate. Any rescission shall be made available through public notice.
§ 850.502
National interest exemption.
(a) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of State, and the heads of relevant agencies, as appropriate, may determine that a covered transaction is in the national interest of the United States and therefore is exempt from applicable provisions in subparts C and D of this part (excluding §§ 850.406, 850.603, and 850.604). Such a determination may be made following a request
by a U.S. person on its own behalf or on behalf of its controlled foreign entity.
(b) Any determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be based on a consideration of the totality of the relevant facts and circumstances and may be informed by, among other considerations, the transaction's effect on critical U.S. supply chain needs; domestic production needs in the United States for projected national defense requirements; United States' technological leadership globally in areas affecting U.S. national security; and impact on U.S. national security if the U.S. person is prohibited from undertaking the transaction.
(c) A U.S. person seeking a national interest exemption shall submit relevant information to the Department of the Treasury regarding the transaction and shall articulate the basis for the request, including the U.S. person's analysis of the transaction's potential impact on the national interest of the United States and the certification referred to in § 850.203. Information and other documents submitted by the U.S. person to the Department of the Treasury under this section shall be deemed part of the national interest exemption request. The U.S. person shall follow the instructions posted on the Department of the Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website. No communications or submissions other than those described in this section shall constitute a request for a national interest exemption. The Department of the Treasury may request additional information that may include some or all of the information required under § 850.405.
(d) A determination that a covered transaction is exempt under this section may be subject to binding conditions.
(e) No determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be valid unless provided to the subject U.S. person in writing and signed by the Assistant Secretary or Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Investment Security.

# Note 1 to § 850.502:
A process and related information for exemption requests will be made available on the Department of the Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website.
§ 850.503
IEEPA statutory exception.
Conduct referred to in 50 U.S.C. 1702(b) shall not be regulated or prohibited, directly or indirectly, by this part.

# Subpart F—Violations
§ 850.601
Taking actions prohibited by this part.
The taking of any action prohibited by this part is a violation of this part.
§ 850.602
Failure to fulfill requirements.
Failure to take any action required by this part, and within the time frame and in the manner specified by this part, as applicable, is a violation of this part.
§ 850.603
Misrepresentation, concealment, and omission of facts.
With respect to any information submission to or communication with the Department of the Treasury pursuant to any provision of this part, the making of any materially false or misleading representation, statement, or certification, or falsifying, concealing or omitting any material fact is a violation of this part.
§ 850.604
Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.
(a) Any action on or after the effective date of this part that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

# Subpart G—Penalties and Disclosures
§ 850.701
Penalties.
(a) Section 206 of IEEPA applies to any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued by or
pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA, including any provision of this part in an amount not to exceed the greater of:
(i) $250,000, as such amount is adjusted pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended (Pub. L. 101-410, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note); or
(ii) An amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(2) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation, attempt to violate, conspiracy to violate, or causing of a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA, including any provision of this part, shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) The Secretary may refer potential criminal violations of the Order, or of this part, to the Attorney General.
(c) The civil penalties provided for in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended (Pub. L. 101-410, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note). Notice of the maximum penalty which may be assessed under this section will be published in the
Federal Register
and on Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website on an annual basis on or before January 15 of each calendar year.
(d) The criminal penalties provided for in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(e) The penalties available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, and forfeiture of property, available under other applicable law.
(f) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
§ 850.702
Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.
The imposition of a monetary penalty under this part creates a debt due to the U.S. Government. The Department of the Treasury may take action to collect the penalty assessed if not paid. In addition or instead, the matter may be referred to the Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty.
§ 850.703
Divestment.
(a) The Secretary, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, as appropriate, may take any action authorized under IEEPA to nullify, void, or otherwise compel the divestment of any prohibited transaction entered into after the effective date of this part.
(b) The Secretary may refer any action taken under paragraph (a) of this section to the Attorney General to seek appropriate relief to enforce such action.
§ 850.704
Voluntary self-disclosure.
(a) Any person who has engaged in conduct that may constitute a violation of this part may submit a voluntary self-disclosure of that conduct to the Department of the Treasury.
(b) In determining the appropriate response to any violation, the Department of the Treasury will consider the submission and the timeliness of any voluntary self-disclosure.
(c) In assessing the timeliness of a voluntary self-disclosure, the Department of the Treasury will consider whether it has learned of the conduct prior to the voluntary self-disclosure. The Department of the Treasury may consider disclosure of a violation to another government agency other than
the Department of the Treasury as a voluntary self-disclosure based on a case-by-case assessment.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, identification to the Department of the Treasury of conduct that may constitute a violation of this part may not be assessed to be a voluntary self-disclosure in one or more of the following circumstances:
(1) A third party has provided a prior disclosure to the Department of the Treasury of the conduct or similar conduct related to the same pattern or practice, regardless of whether the disclosing person knew of the third party's prior disclosure;
(2) The disclosure includes materially false or misleading information;
(3) The disclosure, when considered along with supplemental information timely provided by the disclosing person, is materially incomplete;
(4) The disclosure is not self-initiated, including when the disclosure results from a suggestion or order of a Federal or state agency or official;
(5) The disclosure is a response to an administrative subpoena or other inquiry from the Department of the Treasury or another government agency;
(6) The disclosure is made about the conduct of an entity by an individual in such entity without the authorization of such entity's senior management; or
(7) The filing is made pursuant to a required notification under this part, including § 850.403 or § 850.406.
(e) A voluntary self-disclosure to the Department of the Treasury must take the form of a written notice describing the conduct that may constitute a violation and each of the persons involved. A voluntary self-disclosure must include, or be followed within a reasonable period of time by, a report of sufficient detail to afford a complete understanding of the conduct that may constitute the violation. A person making a voluntary self-disclosure must respond in a timely manner to any follow-up inquiries by the Department of the Treasury.

# Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information
§ 850.801
Confidentiality.
(a) Except to the extent required by law or otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, information or documentary materials not otherwise publicly available that are submitted to the Department of the Treasury under this part shall not be disclosed to the public.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, except to the extent prohibited by law, the Department of the Treasury may disclose information or documentary materials that are not otherwise publicly available, subject to appropriate confidentiality and classification requirements, when such information or documentary materials are:
(1) Relevant to any judicial or administrative action or proceeding;
(2) Provided to Congress or to any duly authorized committee or subcommittee of Congress; or
(3) Provided to any domestic governmental entity, or to any foreign governmental entity of a United States partner or ally, where the information or documentary materials are important to the national security analysis or actions of such governmental entity or the Department of the Treasury.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Department of the Treasury may disclose to third parties information or documentary materials that are not otherwise publicly available when the person who submitted or filed the information or documentary materials has consented to its disclosure to such third parties.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Department of the Treasury may disclose information that is not already publicly available, when such disclosure of information is determined by the Secretary to be in the national interest. Any determination under this paragraph (d) may not be delegated below the level of the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
(e) The Department of the Treasury may use the information gathered pursuant to this part to fulfill its obligations under the Order, which may include publication of anonymized data.
§ 850.802
Language of information.
All materials or information filed with the Department of the Treasury under this part shall be submitted in English. If supplementary or additional materials were originally written in a foreign language, they shall be submitted in their original language. Where English versions of those documents exist, they shall also be submitted.

# Subpart I—Other Provisions
§ 850.901
Delegation of authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Any action that the Secretary is authorized to take pursuant to the Order and any further executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in the Order may be taken by the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Investment Security or their designee or by any other person to whom the Secretary has delegated the authority so to act, as appropriate.
§ 850.902
Amendment, modification, or revocation.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, and in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, the Secretary may amend, modify, or revoke provisions of this part at any time.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, any instructions, orders, forms, regulations, or rulings issued pursuant to this part may be amended, modified, or revoked at any time.
(c) Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such instructions, orders, forms, regulations, or rulings pursuant to this part continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
§ 850.903
Severability.
The provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any of the provisions of this part, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.
§ 850.904
Reports to be furnished on demand.
(a) Any person is required to furnish under oath, in the form of reports or otherwise, at any time as may be required by the Department of the Treasury, complete information regarding any act or transaction subject to the provisions of this part, regardless of whether such act or transaction is effected pursuant to a national interest exemption under § 850.502. Except as provided otherwise, the Department of the Treasury may, through any person or agency, conduct investigations, hold hearings, administer oaths, examine witnesses, receive evidence, take depositions, and require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any books, contracts, letters, papers, and other hard copy or electronic documents relating to any matter under investigation, regardless of whether any report has been required or filed under this section.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term
document
includes any written, recorded, or graphic matter or other means of preserving thought or expression (including in electronic format), and all tangible things stored in any medium from which information can be processed, transcribed, or obtained directly or indirectly.
(c) Persons providing documents to the Department of the Treasury pursuant to this section must do so in a usable format agreed upon by the Department of the Treasury.
PARTS 851-899 [RESERVED]
31 CFR Ch. IX (7-1-25 Edition)
Fed. Claims Collection Stds., Treas.-DOJ

# CHAPTER IX—FEDERAL CLAIMS COLLECTION STANDARDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY—DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE)
Part
Page
900
Scope of standards
1085
901
Standards for the administrative collection of claims
1087
902
Standards for the compromise of claims
1096
903
Standards for suspending or terminating collection activity
1098
904
Referrals to the Department of Justice
1100
905-999
[Reserved]
Pt. 900

# PART 900—SCOPE OF STANDARDS
Sec.
900.1
Prescription of standards.
900.2
Definitions and construction.
900.3
Antitrust, fraud, and tax and interagency claims excluded.
900.4
Compromise, waiver, or disposition under other statutes not precluded.
900.5
Form of payment.
900.6
Subdivision of claims not authorized.
900.7
Required administrative proceedings.
900.8
No private rights created.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3711.

# Source:
65 FR 70395, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 900.1
Prescription of standards.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General of the United States are issuing the regulations in parts 900-904 of this chapter under the authority contained in 31 U.S.C. 3711(d)(2). The regulations in this chapter prescribe standards for Federal agency use in the administrative collection, offset, compromise, and the suspension or termination of collection activity for civil claims for money, funds, or property, as defined by 31 U.S.C. 3701(b), unless specific Federal agency statutes or regulations apply to such activities or, as provided for by Title 11 of the United States Code, when the claims involve bankruptcy. Federal agencies include agencies of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Government, including Government corporations. The regulations in this chapter also prescribe standards for referring debts to the Department of Justice for litigation. Additional guidance is contained in the Office of Management and Budget's Circular A-129 (Revised), “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables,” the Department of the Treasury's “Managing Federal Receivables,” and other publications concerning debt collection and debt management. These publications are available from the Debt Management Services, Financial Management Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street SW., Room 151, Washington, DC 20227.
(b) Additional rules governing centralized administrative offset and the transfer of delinquent debt to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) or Treasury-designated debt collection centers for collection (cross-servicing) under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Public Law 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321, 1358 (April 26, 1996), are issued in separate regulations by Treasury. Rules governing the use of certain debt collection tools created under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, such as administrative wage garnishment, also are issued in separate regulations by Treasury. See generally 31 CFR part 285.
(c) Agencies are not limited to the remedies contained in parts 900-904 of this chapter and are encouraged to use all authorized remedies, including alternative dispute resolution and arbitration, to collect civil claims, to the extent that such remedies are not inconsistent with the Federal Claims Collection Act, as amended, Public Law 89-508, 80 Stat. 308 (July 19, 1966), the Debt Collection Act of 1982, Public Law 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749 (October 25, 1982), the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, or other relevant statutes. The regulations in this chapter are not intended to impair agencies' common law rights to collect debts.
(d) Standards and policies regarding the classification of debt for accounting purposes (for example, write off of uncollectible debt) are contained in the Office of Management and Budget's Circular A-129 (Revised), “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables.”
§ 900.2
Definitions and construction.
(a) For the purposes of the standards in this chapter, the terms “claim” and “debt” are synonymous and interchangeable. They refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms “claim” and “debt” include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(b) A debt is “delinquent” if it has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement), unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
(c) In parts 900-904 of this chapter, words in the plural form shall include the singular and vice versa, and words signifying the masculine gender shall include the feminine and vice versa. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude matters not listed but do include matters that are in the same general class.
(d) Recoupment is a special method for adjusting debts arising under the same transaction or occurrence. For example, obligations arising under the same contract generally are subject to recoupment.
(e) For purposes of the standards in this chapter, unless otherwise stated, “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate.
§ 900.3
Antitrust, fraud, and tax and interagency claims excluded.
(a) The standards in parts 900-904 of this chapter relating to compromise, suspension, and termination of collection activity do not apply to any debt based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or to any debt involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim. Only the Department of Justice has the authority to compromise, suspend, or terminate collection activity on such claims. The standards in parts 900-904 of this chapter relating to the administrative collection of claims do apply, but only to the extent authorized by the Department of Justice in a particular case. Upon identification of a claim based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or any claim involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim, agencies shall promptly refer the case to the Department of Justice for action. At its discretion, the Department of Justice may return the claim to the forwarding agency for further handling in accordance with the standards in parts 900-904 of this chapter.
(b) Parts 900-904 of this chapter do not apply to tax debts.
(c) Parts 900-904 of this chapter do not apply to claims between Federal agencies. Federal agencies should attempt to resolve interagency claims by negotiation in accordance with Executive Order 12146 (3 CFR, 1980 Comp., pp. 409-412).
§ 900.4
Compromise, waiver, or disposition under other statutes not precluded.
Nothing in parts 900-904 of this chapter precludes agency disposition of any claim under statutes and implementing regulations other than subchapter II of chapter 37 of Title 31 of the United States Code (Claims of the United States Government) and the standards in this chapter. See, e.g., the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, Public Law 87-693, 76 Stat. 593 (September 25, 1962) (codified at 42 U.S.C. 2651
et seq.
), and applicable regulations, 28 CFR part 43. In such cases, the laws and regulations that are specifically applicable to claims collection activities of a particular agency generally take precedence over parts 900-904 of this chapter.
§ 900.5
Form of payment.
Claims may be paid in the form of money or, when a contractual basis exists, the Government may demand the return of specific property or the performance of specific services.
§ 900.6
Subdivision of claims not authorized.
Debts may not be subdivided to avoid the monetary ceiling established by 31 U.S.C. 3711(a)(2). A debtor's liability arising from a particular transaction or contract shall be considered a single debt in determining whether the debt is one of less than $100,000 (excluding interest, penalties, and administrative costs) or such higher amount as the Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe for purposes of compromise
or suspension or termination of collection activity.
§ 900.7
Required administrative proceedings.
Agencies are not required to omit, foreclose, or duplicate administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
§ 900.8
No private rights created.
The standards in this chapter do not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any other person, nor shall the failure of an agency to comply with any of the provisions of parts 900-904 of this chapter be available to any debtor as a defense.
Pt. 901

# PART 901—STANDARDS FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
Sec.
901.1
Aggressive agency collection activity.
901.2
Demand for payment.
901.3
Collection by administrative offset.
901.4
Reporting debts.
901.5
Contracting with private collection contractors and with entities that locate and recover unclaimed assets.
901.6
Suspension or revocation of eligibility for loans and loan guaranties, licenses, permits, or privileges.
901.7
Liquidation of collateral.
901.8
Collection in installments.
901.9
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
901.10
Analysis of costs.
901.11
Use and disclosure of mailing addresses.
901.12
Exemptions.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3701, 3711, 3716, 3717, 3718, and 3720B.

# Source:
65 FR 70396, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 901.1
Aggressive agency collection activity.
(a) Federal agencies shall aggressively collect all debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, that agency. Collection activities shall be undertaken promptly with follow-up action taken as necessary. Nothing contained in parts 900-904 of this chapter requires the Department of Justice, Treasury, or other Treasury-designated debt collection centers, to duplicate collection activities previously undertaken by other agencies or to perform collection activities that other agencies should have undertaken.
(b) Debts referred or transferred to Treasury, or Treasury-designated debt collection centers under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), shall be serviced, collected, or compromised, or the collection action will be suspended or terminated, in accordance with the statutory requirements and authorities applicable to the collection of such debts.
(c) Agencies shall cooperate with one another in their debt collection activities.
(d) Agencies should consider referring debts that are less than 180 days delinquent to Treasury or to Treasury-designated “debt collection centers” to accomplish efficient, cost effective debt collection. Treasury is a debt collection center, is authorized to designate other Federal agencies as debt collection centers based on their performance in collecting delinquent debts, and may withdraw such designations. Referrals to debt collection centers shall be at the discretion of, and for a time period acceptable to, the Secretary. Referrals may be for servicing, collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action.
(e) Agencies shall transfer to the Secretary any debt that has been delinquent for a period of 180 days or more so that the Secretary may take appropriate action to collect the debt or terminate collection action. See 31 CFR 285.12 (Transfer of Debts to Treasury for Collection). This requirement does not apply to any debt that:
(1) Is in litigation or foreclosure;
(2) Will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program;
(3) Has been referred to a private collection contractor for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary;
(4) Is at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary (see paragraph (d) of this section);
(5) Will be collected under internal offset procedures within three years after the debt first became delinquent; or
(6) Is exempt from this requirement based on a determination by the Secretary that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interest of the United States. Agencies may request that the Secretary exempt specific classes of debts.
(f) Agencies operating Treasury-designated debt collection centers are authorized to charge a fee for services rendered regarding referred or transferred debts. The fee may be paid out of amounts collected and may be added to the debt as an administrative cost (see § 901.10).
§ 901.2
Demand for payment.
(a) Written demand as described in paragraph (b) of this section shall be made promptly upon a debtor of the United States in terms that inform the debtor of the consequences of failing to cooperate with the agency to resolve the debt. The specific content, timing, and number of demand letters shall depend upon the type and amount of the debt and the debtor's response, if any, to the agency's letters or telephone calls. Generally, one demand letter should suffice. In determining the timing of the demand letter(s), agencies should give due regard to the need to refer debts promptly to the Department of Justice for litigation, in accordance with § 904.1 of this chapter or otherwise. When necessary to protect the Government's interest (for example, to prevent the running of a statute of limitations), written demand may be preceded by other appropriate actions under parts 900-904 of this chapter, including immediate referral for litigation.
(b) Demand letters shall inform the debtor of:
(1) The basis for the indebtedness and the rights, if any, the debtor may have to seek review within the agency;
(2) The applicable standards for imposing any interest, penalties, or administrative costs;
(3) The date by which payment should be made to avoid late charges (i.e. interest, penalties, and administrative costs) and enforced collection, which generally should not be more than 30 days from the date that the demand letter is mailed or hand-delivered; and
(4) The name, address, and phone number of a contact person or office within the agency.
(c) Agencies should exercise care to ensure that demand letters are mailed or hand-delivered on the same day that they are dated. There is no prescribed format for demand letters. Agencies should utilize demand letters and procedures that will lead to the earliest practicable determination of whether the debt can be resolved administratively or must be referred for litigation.
(d) Agencies should include in demand letters such items as the agency's willingness to discuss alternative methods of payment; its policies with respect to the use of credit bureaus, debt collection centers, and collection agencies; the agency's remedies to enforce payment of the debt (including assessment of interest, administrative costs and penalties, administrative garnishment, the use of collection agencies, Federal salary offset, tax refund offset, administrative offset, and litigation); the requirement that any debt delinquent for more than 180 days be transferred to the Department of the Treasury for collection; and, depending on applicable statutory authority, the debtor's entitlement to consideration of a waiver.
(e) Agencies should respond promptly to communications from debtors, within 30 days whenever feasible, and should advise debtors who dispute debts to furnish available evidence to support their contentions.
(f) Prior to the initiation of the demand process or at any time during or after completion of the demand process, if an agency determines to pursue, or is required to pursue, offset, the procedures applicable to offset should be followed (see § 901.3). The availability of funds or money for debt satisfaction by offset and the agency's determination to pursue collection by offset shall release the agency from the necessity of further compliance with paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(g) Prior to referring a debt for litigation, agencies should advise each person determined to be liable for the debt that, unless the debt can be collected administratively, litigation may be initiated. This notification should
comply with Executive Order 12988 (3 CFR, 1996 Comp., pp. 157-163) and may be given as part of a demand letter under paragraph (b) of this section or in a separate document. Litigation counsel for the Government should be advised that this notice has been given.
(h) When an agency learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, before proceeding with further collection action, the agency should immediately seek legal advice from its agency counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code on any pending or contemplated collection activities. Unless the agency determines that the automatic stay imposed at the time of filing pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 362 has been lifted or is no longer in effect, in most cases collection activity against the debtor should stop immediately.
(1) After seeking legal advice, a proof of claim should be filed in most cases with the bankruptcy court or the Trustee. Agencies should refer to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 106 relating to the consequences on sovereign immunity of filing a proof of claim.
(2) If the agency is a secured creditor, it may seek relief from the automatic stay regarding its security, subject to the provisions and requirements of 11 U.S.C. 362.
(3) Offset is stayed in most cases by the automatic stay. However, agencies should seek legal advice from their agency counsel to determine whether their payments to the debtor and payments of other agencies available for offset may be frozen by the agency until relief from the automatic stay can be obtained from the bankruptcy court. Agencies also should seek legal advice from their agency counsel to determine whether recoupment is available.
§ 901.3
Collection by administrative offset.
(a)
Scope.
(1) The term “administrative offset” has the meaning provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1).
(2) This section does not apply to:
(i) Debts arising under the Social Security Act, except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 404;
(ii) Payments made under the Social Security Act, except as provided for in 31 U.S.C. 3716(c) (see 31 CFR 285.4, Federal Benefit Offset);
(iii) Debts arising under, or payments made under, the Internal Revenue Code (see 31 CFR 285.2, Tax Refund Offset) or the tariff laws of the United States;
(iv) Offsets against Federal salaries to the extent these standards are inconsistent with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716 (see 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and 31 CFR 285.7, Federal Salary Offset);
(v) Offsets under 31 U.S.C. 3728 against a judgment obtained by a debtor against the United States;
(vi) Offsets or recoupments under common law, State law, or Federal statutes specifically prohibiting offsets or recoupments of particular types of debts; or
(vii) Offsets in the course of judicial proceedings, including bankruptcy.
(3) Unless otherwise provided for by contract or law, debts or payments that are not subject to administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 may be collected by administrative offset under the common law or other applicable statutory authority.
(4) Unless otherwise provided by law, administrative offset of payments under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3716 to collect a debt may not be conducted more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right to collect the debt were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials of the Government who were charged with the responsibility to discover and collect such debts. This limitation does not apply to debts reduced to a judgment.
(5) In bankruptcy cases, agencies should seek legal advice from their agency counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 106, 362, and 553, on pending or contemplated collections by offset.
(b)
Mandatory centralized administrative offset.
(1) Creditor agencies are required to refer past due, legally enforceable nontax debts which are over 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for collection by centralized administrative offset. Debts which are less than 180 days delinquent also may be
referred to the Secretary for this purpose. See § 901.3(b)(5) for debt certification requirements.
(2) The names and taxpayer identifying numbers (TINs) of debtors who owe debts referred to the Secretary as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be compared to the names and TINs on payments to be made by Federal disbursing officials. Federal disbursing officials include disbursing officials of Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, other Government corporations, and disbursing officials of the United States designated by the Secretary. When the name and TIN of a debtor match the name and TIN of a payee and all other requirements for offset have been met, the payment will be offset to satisfy the debt.
(3) Federal disbursing officials will notify the debtor/payee in writing that an offset has occurred to satisfy, in part or in full, a past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt. The notice shall include a description of the type and amount of the payment from which the offset was taken, the amount of offset that was taken, the identity of the creditor agency requesting the offset, and a contact point within the creditor agency who will respond to questions regarding the offset.
(4)(i) Before referring a delinquent debt to the Secretary for administrative offset, agencies must have prescribed administrative offset regulations consistent with this section or have adopted this section without change by cross-reference.
(ii) Such regulations shall provide that offsets may be initiated only after the debtor:
(A) Has been sent written notice of the type and amount of the debt, the intention of the agency to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716; and
(B) The debtor has been given:
(
1
) The opportunity to inspect and copy agency records related to the debt;
(
2
) The opportunity for a review within the agency of the determination of indebtedness; and
(
3
) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.
(iii) Agency regulations may provide for the omission of the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section when:
(A) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;
(B) The debt arises under a contract as set forth in
Cecile Industries, Inc.
v.
Cheney,
995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets accommodated by the Contracts Disputes Act); or
(C) In the case of non-centralized administrative offsets conducted under paragraph (c) of this section, the agency first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, the agency shall give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and shall promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.
(iv) When an agency previously has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt (see, e.g., § 901.2), the agency need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before administrative offset may be initiated.
(5) Agencies referring delinquent debts to the Secretary must certify, in a form acceptable to the Secretary, that:
(i) The debt(s) is (are) past due and legally enforceable; and
(ii) The agency has complied with all due process requirements under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and the agency's regulations.
(6) Payments that are prohibited by law from being offset are exempt from centralized administrative offset. The Secretary shall exempt payments under means-tested programs from centralized administrative offset when requested in writing by the head of the payment certifying or authorizing agency. Also, the Secretary may exempt other classes of payments from
centralized offset upon the written request of the head of the payment certifying or authorizing agency.
(7) Benefit payments made under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 921
et seq.
), and any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than tier 2 benefits), may be offset only in accordance with Treasury regulations, issued in consultation with the Social Security Administration, the Railroad Retirement Board, and the Office of Management and Budget. See 31 CFR 285.4.
(8) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), the Secretary may waive the provisions of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 concerning matching agreements and post-match notification and verification (5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and (p)) for centralized administrative offset upon receipt of a certification from a creditor agency that the due process requirements enumerated in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. The certification of a debt in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section will satisfy this requirement. If such a waiver is granted, only the Data Integrity Board of the Department of the Treasury is required to oversee any matching activities, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(g). This waiver authority does not apply to offsets conducted under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(c)
Non-centralized administrative offset.
(1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are
ad hoc
case-by-case offsets that an agency conducts, at the agency's discretion, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable nontax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, a creditor agency may make a request directly to a payment authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. For example, it may be appropriate for a creditor agency to request that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset a Federal employee's lump sum payment upon leaving Government service to satisfy an unpaid advance.
(2) Before requesting a payment authorizing agency to conduct a non-centralized administrative offset, agencies must adopt regulations providing that such offsets may occur only after:
(i) The debtor has been provided due process as set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and
(ii) The payment authorizing agency has received written certification from the creditor agency that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that the creditor agency has fully complied with its regulations concerning administrative offset.
(3) Payment authorizing agencies shall comply with offset requests by creditor agencies to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States with respect to the program of the payment authorizing agency, or would otherwise be contrary to law. Appropriate use should be made of the cooperative efforts of other agencies in effecting collection by administrative offset.
(4) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, agencies should apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
(d)
Requests to OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
Upon providing OPM written certification that a debtor has been afforded the procedures provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, creditor agencies may request OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (Fund) in accordance with regulations codified at 5 CFR 831.1801-831.1808. Upon receipt of such a request, OPM will identify and “flag” a debtor's account in anticipation of the time when the debtor requests, or becomes eligible to receive, payments from the Fund. This will satisfy any requirement that offset be initiated prior to the expiration of
the time limitations referenced in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(e)
Review requirements.
(1) For purposes of this section, whenever an agency is required to afford a debtor a review within the agency, the agency shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the agency determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity.
(2) Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although the agency should carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing.
(3) This section does not require an oral hearing with respect to debt collection systems in which a determination of indebtedness rarely involves issues of credibility or veracity and the agency has determined that review of the written record is ordinarily an adequate means to correct prior mistakes.
(4) In those cases when an oral hearing is not required by this section, an agency shall accord the debtor a “paper hearing,” that is, a determination of the request for reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.
§ 901.4
Reporting debts.
(a) Agencies shall develop and implement procedures for reporting delinquent debts to credit bureaus and other automated databases. Agencies also may develop procedures to report non-delinquent debts to credit bureaus. See 31 U.S.C. 3711(e).
(1) In developing procedures for reporting debts to credit bureaus, agencies shall comply with the Bankruptcy Code and the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended. The provisions of the Privacy Act do not apply to credit bureaus.
(2) Agency procedures for reporting delinquent consumer debts to credit bureaus shall be consistent with the due process and other requirements contained in 31 U.S.C. 3711(e). When an agency has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt, the agency need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before reporting that delinquent consumer debt to credit bureaus.
(b) Agencies should report delinquent debts to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS). For information about the CAIVRS program, agencies should contact the Director of Information Resources Management Policy and Management Division, Office of Information Technology, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410.
§ 901.5
Contracting with private collection contractors and with entities that locate and recover unclaimed assets.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, Federal agencies may contract with private collection contractors, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(f), to recover delinquent debts provided that:
(1) Agencies retain the authority to resolve disputes, compromise debts, suspend or terminate collection activity, and refer debts for litigation;
(2) The private collection contractor is not allowed to offer the debtor, as an incentive for payment, the opportunity to pay the debt less the private collection contractor's fee unless the agency has granted such authority prior to the offer;
(3) The contract provides that the private collection contractor is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 to the extent specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), and to applicable Federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to debt collection practices, including but not limited to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. 1692; and
(4) The private collection contractor is required to account for all amounts collected.
(b) Agencies shall use government-wide debt collection contracts to obtain debt collection services provided by private collection contractors. However, agencies may refer debts to private collection contractors pursuant to a contract between the agency and the private collection contractor only if
such debts are not subject to the requirement to transfer debts to Treasury for debt collection. See 31 U.S.C. 3711(g); 31 CFR 285.12(e).
(c) Agencies may fund private collection contractor contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), or as otherwise permitted by law.
(d) Agencies may enter into contracts for locating and recovering assets of the United States, such as unclaimed assets. Agencies must establish procedures that are acceptable to the Secretary before entering into contracts to recover assets of the United States held by a state government or a financial institution.
(e) Agencies may enter into contracts for debtor asset and income search reports. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), such contracts may provide that the fee a contractor charges the agency for such services may be payable from the amounts recovered, unless otherwise prohibited by statute.
§ 901.6
Suspension or revocation of eligibility for loans and loan guaranties, licenses, permits, or privileges.
(a) Unless waived by the head of the agency, agencies are not permitted to extend financial assistance in the form of a loan, loan guarantee, or loan insurance to any person delinquent on a nontax debt owed to a Federal agency. This prohibition does not apply to disaster loans. The authority to waive the application of this section may be delegated to the Chief Financial Officer and redelegated only to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the agency. Agencies may extend credit after the delinquency has been resolved. The Secretary may exempt classes of debts from this prohibition and has prescribed standards defining when a “delinquency” is “resolved” for purposes of this prohibition. See 31 CFR 285.13 (Barring Delinquent Debtors From Obtaining Federal Loans or Loan Insurance or Guarantees).
(b) In non-bankruptcy cases, agencies seeking the collection of statutory penalties, forfeitures, or other types of claims should consider the suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or other privileges for any inexcusable or willful failure of a debtor to pay such a debt in accordance with the agency's regulations or governing procedures. The debtor should be advised in the agency's written demand for payment of the agency's ability to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges. Any agency making, guaranteeing, insuring, acquiring, or participating in, loans should consider suspending or disqualifying any lender, contractor, or broker from doing further business with the agency or engaging in programs sponsored by the agency if such lender, contractor, or broker fails to pay its debts to the Government within a reasonable time or if such lender, contractor, or broker has been suspended, debarred, or disqualified from participation in a program or activity by another Federal agency. The failure of any surety to honor its obligations in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9305 should be reported to the Treasury. The Treasury will forward to all interested agencies notification that a surety's certificate of authority to do business with the Government has been revoked by the Treasury.
(c) The suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or privileges also should extend to Federal programs or activities that are administered by the states on behalf of the Federal Government, to the extent that they affect the Federal Government's ability to collect money or funds owed by debtors. Therefore, states that manage Federal activities, pursuant to approval from the agencies, should ensure that appropriate steps are taken to safeguard against issuing licenses, permits, or privileges to debtors who fail to pay their debts to the Federal Government.
(d) In bankruptcy cases, before advising the debtor of an agency's intention to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges, agencies should seek legal advice from their agency counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 362 and 525, which may restrict such action.
§ 901.7
Liquidation of collateral.
(a) Agencies should liquidate security or collateral through the exercise of a power of sale in the security instrument or a nonjudicial foreclosure, and apply the proceeds to the applicable debt(s), if the debtor fails to pay
the debt(s) within a reasonable time after demand and if such action is in the best interest of the United States. Collection from other sources, including liquidation of security or collateral, is not a prerequisite to requiring payment by a surety, insurer, or guarantor unless such action is expressly required by statute or contract.
(b) When an agency learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, the agency should seek legal advice from its agency counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, including, but not limited to, 11 U.S.C. 362, to determine the applicability of the automatic stay and the procedures for obtaining relief from such stay prior to proceeding under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 901.8
Collection in installments.
(a) Whenever feasible, agencies shall collect the total amount of a debt in one lump sum. If a debtor is financially unable to pay a debt in one lump sum, agencies may accept payment in regular installments. Agencies should obtain financial statements from debtors who represent that they are unable to pay in one lump sum and independently verify such representations whenever possible (see § 902.2(g) of this chapter). Agencies that agree to accept payments in regular installments should obtain a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor that specifies all of the terms of the arrangement and that contains a provision accelerating the debt in the event of default.
(b) The size and frequency of installment payments should bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. If possible, the installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in three years or less.
(c) Security for deferred payments should be obtained in appropriate cases. Agencies may accept installment payments notwithstanding the refusal of the debtor to execute a written agreement or to give security, at the agency's option.
§ 901.9
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section, agencies shall charge interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts owed to the United States pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. An agency shall mail or hand-deliver a written notice to the debtor, at the debtor's most recent address available to the agency, explaining the agency's requirements concerning these charges except where these requirements are included in a contractual or repayment agreement. These charges shall continue to accrue until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved through compromise, termination, or waiver of the charges.
(b) Agencies shall charge interest on debts owed the United States as follows:
(1) Interest shall accrue from the date of delinquency, or as otherwise provided by law.
(2) Unless otherwise established in a contract, repayment agreement, or by statute, the rate of interest charged shall be the rate established annually by the Secretary in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, an agency may charge a higher rate of interest if it reasonably determines that a higher rate is necessary to protect the rights of the United States. The agency should document the reason(s) for its determination that the higher rate is necessary.
(3) The rate of interest, as initially charged, shall remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. When a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, the agency may require payment of interest at a new rate that reflects the current value of funds to the Treasury at the time the new agreement is executed. Interest shall not be compounded, that is, interest shall not be charged on interest, penalties, or administrative costs required by this section. If, however, a debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement, charges that accrued but were not collected under the defaulted agreement shall be added to the principal under the new repayment agreement.
(c) Agencies shall assess administrative costs incurred for processing and handling delinquent debts. The calculation of administrative costs should be based on actual costs incurred or upon estimated costs as determined by the assessing agency.
(d) Unless otherwise established in a contract, repayment agreement, or by statute, agencies shall charge a penalty, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717(e)(2), not to exceed six percent a year on the amount due on a debt that is delinquent for more than 90 days. This charge shall accrue from the date of delinquency.
(e) Agencies may increase an “administrative debt” by the cost of living adjustment in lieu of charging interest and penalties under this section. “Administrative debt” includes, but is not limited to, a debt based on fines, penalties, and overpayments, but does not include a debt based on the extension of Government credit, such as those arising from loans and loan guaranties. The cost of living adjustment is the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year preceding the adjustment exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year in which the debt was determined or last adjusted. Increases to administrative debts shall be computed annually. Agencies should use this alternative only when there is a legitimate reason to do so, such as when calculating interest and penalties on a debt would be extremely difficult because of the age of the debt.
(f) When a debt is paid in partial or installment payments, amounts received by the Government shall be applied first to any contingency fees added to the debt, second to outstanding penalties, third to administrative costs other than contingency fees, fourth to interest, and last to principal. For purposes of this paragraph (f), “contingency fees” are administrative costs resulting from fees paid by a Federal agency to other Federal agencies or private collection contractors for collection services rendered when the fees are paid from the amounts collected from a debtor.
(g) Agencies shall waive the collection of interest and administrative costs imposed pursuant to this section on the portion of the debt that is paid within 30 days after the date on which interest began to accrue. Agencies may extend this 30-day period on a case-by-case basis. In addition, agencies may waive interest, penalties, and administrative costs charged under this section, in whole or in part, without regard to the amount of the debt, either under the criteria set forth in these standards for the compromise of debts, or if the agency determines that collection of these charges is against equity and good conscience or is not in the best interest of the United States.
(h) Agencies shall set forth in their regulations the circumstances under which interest and related charges will not be imposed for periods during which collection activity has been suspended pending agency review.
(i) Agencies are authorized to impose interest and related charges on debts not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717, in accordance with the common law.
[65 FR 70396, Nov. 22, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 12274, Mar. 7, 2008]
§ 901.10
Analysis of costs.
Agency collection procedures should provide for periodic comparison of costs incurred and amounts collected. Data on costs and corresponding recovery rates for debts of different types and in various dollar ranges should be used to compare the cost effectiveness of alternative collection techniques, establish guidelines with respect to points at which costs of further collection efforts are likely to exceed recoveries, assist in evaluating offers in compromise, and establish minimum debt amounts below which collection efforts need not be taken.
§ 901.11
Use and disclosure of mailing addresses.
(a) When attempting to locate a debtor in order to collect or compromise a debt under parts 900-904 of this chapter or other authority, agencies may send a request to the Secretary (or designee) to obtain a debtor's mailing address from the records of the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) Agencies are authorized to use mailing addresses obtained under paragraph (a) of this section to enforce collection of a delinquent debt and may disclose such mailing addresses to other agencies and to collection agencies for collection purposes.
§ 901.12
Exemptions.
(a) The preceding sections of this part, to the extent they reflect remedies or procedures prescribed by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, such as administrative offset, use of credit bureaus, contracting for collection agencies, and interest and related charges, do not apply to debts arising under, or payments made under, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), except to the extent provided under 42 U.S.C. 404 and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c); or the tariff laws of the United States. These remedies and procedures, however, may be authorized with respect to debts that are exempt from the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, to the extent that they are authorized under some other statute or the common law.
(b) This section should not be construed as prohibiting the use of these authorities or requirements when collecting debts owed by persons employed by agencies administering the laws cited in paragraph (a) of this section unless the debt arose under those laws.
Pt. 902

# PART 902—STANDARDS FOR THE COMPROMISE OF CLAIMS
Sec.
902.1
Scope and application.
902.2
Bases for compromise.
902.3
Enforcement policy.
902.4
Joint and several liability.
902.5
Further review of compromise offers.
902.6
Consideration of tax consequences to the Government.
902.7
Mutual releases of the debtor and the Government.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3711.

# Source:
65 FR 70402, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 902.1
Scope and application.
(a) The standards set forth in this part apply to the compromise of debts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711. An agency may exercise such compromise authority for debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, that agency when the amount of the debt then due, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, does not exceed $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General. Agency heads may designate officials within their respective agencies to exercise the authorities in this section.
(b) Unless otherwise provided by law, when the principal balance of a debt, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, exceeds $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, the authority to accept the compromise rests with the Department of Justice. The agency should evaluate the compromise offer, using the factors set forth in this part. If an offer to compromise any debt in excess of $100,000 is acceptable to the agency, the agency shall refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice using a Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR). Agencies may obtain the CCLR from the Department of Justice's National Central Intake Facility. The referral shall include appropriate financial information and a recommendation for the acceptance of the compromise offer. Justice Department approval is not required if the agency rejects a compromise offer.
§ 902.2
Bases for compromise.
(a) Agencies may compromise a debt if the Government cannot collect the full amount because:
(1) The debtor is unable to pay the full amount in a reasonable time, as verified through credit reports or other financial information;
(2) The Government is unable to collect the debt in full within a reasonable time by enforced collection proceedings;
(3) The cost of collecting the debt does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount; or
(4) There is significant doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court.
(b) In determining the debtor's inability to pay, agencies should consider relevant factors such as the following:
(1) Age and health of the debtor;
(2) Present and potential income;
(3) Inheritance prospects;
(4) The possibility that assets have been concealed or improperly transferred by the debtor; and
(5) The availability of assets or income that may be realized by enforced collection proceedings.
(c) Agencies should verify the debtor's claim of inability to pay by using a credit report and other financial information as provided in paragraph (g) of this section. Agencies should consider the applicable exemptions available to the debtor under state and Federal law in determining the Government's ability to enforce collection. Agencies also may consider uncertainty as to the price that collateral or other property will bring at a forced sale in determining the Government's ability to enforce collection. A compromise effected under this section should be for an amount that bears a reasonable relation to the amount that can be recovered by enforced collection procedures, with regard to the exemptions available to the debtor and the time that collection will take.
(d) If there is significant doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court for the full amount claimed, either because of the legal issues involved or because of a bona fide dispute as to the facts, then the amount accepted in compromise of such cases should fairly reflect the probabilities of successful prosecution to judgment, with due regard given to the availability of witnesses and other evidentiary support for the Government's claim. In determining the litigative risks involved, agencies should consider the probable amount of court costs and attorney fees pursuant to the Equal Access to Justice Act, 28 U.S.C. 2412, that may be imposed against the Government if it is unsuccessful in litigation.
(e) Agencies may compromise a debt if the cost of collecting the debt does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount. The amount accepted in compromise in such cases may reflect an appropriate discount for the administrative and litigative costs of collection, with consideration given to the time it will take to effect collection. Collection costs may be a substantial factor in the settlement of small debts. In determining whether the cost of collecting justifies enforced collection of the full amount, agencies should consider whether continued collection of the debt, regardless of cost, is necessary to further an enforcement principle, such as the Government's willingness to pursue aggressively defaulting and uncooperative debtors.
(f) Agencies generally should not accept compromises payable in installments. This is not an advantageous form of compromise in terms of time and administrative expense. If, however, payment of a compromise in installments is necessary, agencies should obtain a legally enforceable written agreement providing that, in the event of default, the full original principal balance of the debt prior to compromise, less sums paid thereon, is reinstated. Whenever possible, agencies also should obtain security for repayment in the manner set forth in part 901 of this chapter.
(g) To assess the merits of a compromise offer based in whole or in part on the debtor's inability to pay the full amount of a debt within a reasonable time, agencies should obtain a current financial statement from the debtor, executed under penalty of perjury, showing the debtor's assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Agencies also may obtain credit reports or other financial information to assess compromise offers. Agencies may use their own financial information form or may request suitable forms from the Department of Justice or the local United States Attorney's Office.
§ 902.3
Enforcement policy.
Pursuant to this part, agencies may compromise statutory penalties, forfeitures, or claims established as an aid to enforcement and to compel compliance, if the agency's enforcement policy in terms of deterrence and securing compliance, present and future, will be
adequately served by the agency's acceptance of the sum to be agreed upon.
§ 902.4
Joint and several liability.
(a) When two or more debtors are jointly and severally liable, agencies should pursue collection activity against all debtors, as appropriate. Agencies should not attempt to allocate the burden of payment between the debtors but should proceed to liquidate the indebtedness as quickly as possible.
(b) Agencies should ensure that a compromise agreement with one debtor does not release the agency's claim against the remaining debtors. The amount of a compromise with one debtor shall not be considered a precedent or binding in determining the amount that will be required from other debtors jointly and severally liable on the claim.
§ 902.5
Further review of compromise offers.
If an agency is uncertain whether to accept a firm, written, substantive compromise offer on a debt that is within the agency's delegated compromise authority, it may refer the offer to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice, using a CCLR accompanied by supporting data and particulars concerning the debt. The Department of Justice may act upon such an offer or return it to the agency with instructions or advice.
§ 902.6
Consideration of tax consequences to the Government.
In negotiating a compromise, agencies should consider the tax consequences to the Government. In particular, agencies should consider requiring a waiver of tax-loss-carry-forward and tax-loss-carry-back rights of the debtor. For information on discharge of indebtedness reporting requirements see § 903.5 of this chapter.
§ 902.7
Mutual releases of the debtor and the Government.
In all appropriate instances, a compromise that is accepted by an agency should be implemented by means of a mutual release, in which the debtor is released from further non-tax liability on the compromised debt in consideration of payment in full of the compromise amount and the Government and its officials, past and present, are released and discharged from any and all claims and causes of action arising from the same transaction that the debtor may have. In the event a mutual release is not executed when a debt is compromised, unless prohibited by law, the debtor is still deemed to have waived any and all claims and causes of action against the Government and its officials related to the transaction giving rise to the compromised debt.
Pt. 903

# PART 903—STANDARDS FOR SUSPENDING OR TERMINATING COLLECTION ACTIVITY
Sec.
903.1
Scope and application.
903.2
Suspension of collection activity.
903.3
Termination of collection activity.
903.4
Exception to termination.
903.5
Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3711.

# Source:
65 FR 70403, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 903.1
Scope and application.
(a) The standards set forth in this part apply to the suspension or termination of collection activity pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711 on debts that do not exceed $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, after deducting the amount of partial payments or collections, if any. Prior to referring a debt to the Department of Justice for litigation, agencies may suspend or terminate collection under this part with respect to debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, that agency.
(b) If, after deducting the amount of any partial payments or collections, the principal amount of a debt exceeds $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, the authority to suspend or terminate rests solely with the Department of Justice. If the agency believes that suspension or termination of any
debt in excess of $100,000 may be appropriate, the agency shall refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice, using the CCLR. The referral should specify the reasons for the agency's recommendation. If, prior to referral to the Department of Justice, an agency determines that a debt is plainly erroneous or clearly without legal merit, the agency may terminate collection activity regardless of the amount involved without obtaining Department of Justice concurrence.
§ 903.2
Suspension of collection activity.
(a) Agencies may suspend collection activity on a debt when:
(1) The agency cannot locate the debtor;
(2) The debtor's financial condition is expected to improve; or
(3) The debtor has requested a waiver or review of the debt.
(b) Based on the current financial condition of the debtor, agencies may suspend collection activity on a debt when the debtor's future prospects justify retention of the debt for periodic review and collection activity and:
(1) The applicable statute of limitations has not expired; or
(2) Future collection can be effected by administrative offset, notwithstanding the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations for litigation of claims, with due regard to the 10-year limitation for administrative offset prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 3716(e)(1); or
(3) The debtor agrees to pay interest on the amount of the debt on which collection will be suspended, and such suspension is likely to enhance the debtor's ability to pay the full amount of the principal of the debt with interest at a later date.
(c)(1) Agencies shall suspend collection activity during the time required for consideration of the debtor's request for waiver or administrative review of the debt if the statute under which the request is sought prohibits the agency from collecting the debt during that time.
(2) If the statute under which the request is sought does not prohibit collection activity pending consideration of the request, agencies may use discretion, on a case-by-case basis, to suspend collection. Further, an agency ordinarily should suspend collection action upon a request for waiver or review if the agency is prohibited by statute or regulation from issuing a refund of amounts collected prior to agency consideration of the debtor's request. However, an agency should not suspend collection when the agency determines that the request for waiver or review is frivolous or was made primarily to delay collection.
(d) When an agency learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, in most cases the collection activity on a debt must be suspended, pursuant to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 362, 1201, and 1301, unless the agency can clearly establish that the automatic stay has been lifted or is no longer in effect. Agencies should seek legal advice immediately from their agency counsel and, if legally permitted, take the necessary legal steps to ensure that no funds or money are paid by the agency to the debtor until relief from the automatic stay is obtained.
§ 903.3
Termination of collection activity.
(a) Agencies may terminate collection activity when:
(1) The agency is unable to collect any substantial amount through its own efforts or through the efforts of others;
(2) The agency is unable to locate the debtor;
(3) Costs of collection are anticipated to exceed the amount recoverable;
(4) The debt is legally without merit or enforcement of the debt is barred by any applicable statute of limitations;
(5) The debt cannot be substantiated; or
(6) The debt against the debtor has been discharged in bankruptcy.
(b) Before terminating collection activity, the agency should have pursued all appropriate means of collection and determined, based upon the results of the collection activity, that the debt is uncollectible. Termination of collection activity ceases active collection of the debt. The termination of collection activity does not preclude the agency
from retaining a record of the account for purposes of:
(1) Selling the debt, if the Secretary determines that such sale is in the best interests of the United States;
(2) Pursuing collection at a subsequent date in the event there is a change in the debtor's status or a new collection tool becomes available;
(3) Offsetting against future income or assets not available at the time of termination of collection activity; or
(4) Screening future applicants for prior indebtedness.
(c) Generally, agencies shall terminate collection activity on a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of the amount. Agencies may continue collection activity, however, subject to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, for any payments provided under a plan of reorganization. Offset and recoupment rights may survive the discharge of the debtor in bankruptcy and, under some circumstances, claims also may survive the discharge. For example, the claims of an agency that it is a known creditor of a debtor may survive a discharge if the agency did not receive formal notice of the proceedings. Agencies should seek legal advice from their agency counsel if they believe they have claims or offsets that may survive the discharge of a debtor.
§ 903.4
Exception to termination.
When a significant enforcement policy is involved, or recovery of a judgment is a prerequisite to the imposition of administrative sanctions, agencies may refer debts for litigation even though termination of collection activity may otherwise be appropriate.
§ 903.5
Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.
(a) Before discharging a delinquent debt (also referred to as a close out of the debt), agencies shall take all appropriate steps to collect the debt in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), including, as applicable, administrative offset, tax refund offset, Federal salary offset, referral to Treasury, Treasury-designated debt collection centers or private collection contractors, credit bureau reporting, wage garnishment, litigation, and foreclosure. Discharge of indebtedness is distinct from termination or suspension of collection activity under part 903 of this title and is governed by the Internal Revenue Code. When collection action on a debt is suspended or terminated, the debt remains delinquent and further collection action may be pursued at a later date in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter. When an agency discharges a debt in full or in part, further collection action is prohibited. Therefore, agencies should make the determination that collection action is no longer warranted before discharging a debt. Before discharging a debt, agencies must terminate debt collection action.
(b) Section 3711(i), title 31, United States Code, requires agencies to sell a delinquent nontax debt upon termination of collection action if the Secretary determines such a sale is in the best interests of the United States. Since the discharge of a debt precludes any further collection action (including the sale of a delinquent debt), agencies may not discharge a debt until the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3711(i) have been met.
(c) Upon discharge of an indebtedness, agencies must report the discharge to the IRS in accordance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1. An agency may request Treasury or Treasury-designated debt collection centers to file such a discharge report to the IRS on the agency's behalf.
(d) When discharging a debt, agencies must request that litigation counsel release any liens of record securing the debt.
Pt. 904

# PART 904—REFERRALS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Sec.
904.1
Prompt referral.
904.2
Claims Collection Litigation Report.
904.3
Preservation of evidence.
904.4
Minimum amount of referrals to the Department of Justice.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3711.

# Source:
65 FR 70404, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 904.1
Prompt referral.
(a) Agencies shall promptly refer to the Department of Justice for litigation debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with part 901 of this chapter and that cannot be compromised, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, in accordance with parts 902 and 903 of this chapter. Agencies may refer those debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, that agency. Debts for which the principal amount is over $1,000,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest and penalties, shall be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at the Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000, or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest or penalties, shall be referred to the Department of Justice's Nationwide Central Intake Facility as required by the CCLR instructions. Debts should be referred as early as possible, consistent with aggressive agency collection activity and the observance of the standards contained in parts 900-904 of this chapter, and, in any event, well within the period for initiating timely lawsuits against the debtors. Agencies shall make every effort to refer delinquent debts to the Department of Justice for litigation within one year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of guaranteed or insured loans, agencies should make every effort to refer these delinquent debts to the Department of Justice for litigation within one year from the date the loan was presented to the agency for payment or re-insurance.
(b) The Department of Justice has exclusive jurisdiction over the debts referred to it pursuant to this section. The referring agency shall immediately terminate the use of any administrative collection activities to collect a debt at the time of the referral of that debt to the Department of Justice. The agency should advise the Department of Justice of the collection activities which have been utilized to date, and their result. The referring agency shall refrain from having any contact with the debtor and shall direct all debtor inquiries concerning the debt to the Department of Justice. The referring agency shall immediately notify the Department of Justice of any payments credited by the agency to the debtor's account after referral of a debt under this section. The Department of Justice shall notify the referring agency, in a timely manner, of any payments it receives from the debtor.
§ 904.2
Claims Collection Litigation Report.
(a) Unless excepted by the Department of Justice, agencies shall complete the CCLR (see § 902.1(b) of this chapter), accompanied by a signed Certificate of Indebtedness, to refer all administratively uncollectible claims to the Department of Justice for litigation. Referring agencies shall complete all of the sections of the CCLR appropriate to each claim as required by the CCLR instructions and furnish such other information as may be required in specific cases.
(b) Agencies shall indicate clearly on the CCLR the actions they wish the Department of Justice to take with respect to the referred claim. The CCLR permits the agency to indicate specifically any of a number of litigative activities which the Department of Justice may pursue, including enforced collection, judgment lien only, renew judgment lien only, renew judgment lien and enforce collection, program enforcement, foreclosure only, and foreclosure and deficiency judgment.
(c) Agencies also shall use the CCLR to refer claims to the Department of Justice to obtain approval of any proposals to compromise the claims or to suspend or terminate agency collection activity.
§ 904.3
Preservation of evidence.
Referring agencies must take care to preserve all files and records that may be needed by the Department of Justice to prove their claims in court. Agencies ordinarily should include certified copies of the documents that form the basis for the claim in the packages referring their claims to the Department of Justice for litigation. Agencies shall provide originals of such documents
immediately upon request by the Department of Justice.
§ 904.4
Minimum amount of referrals to the Department of Justice.
(a) Agencies shall not refer for litigation claims of less than $2,500, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, or such other amount as the Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe. The Department of Justice shall promptly notify referring agencies if the Attorney General changes this minimum amount.
(b) Agencies shall not refer claims of less than the minimum amount unless:
(1) Litigation to collect such smaller claims is important to ensure compliance with the agency's policies or programs;
(2) The claim is being referred solely for the purpose of securing a judgment against the debtor, which will be filed as a lien against the debtor's property pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 3201 and returned to the referring agency for enforcement; or
(3) The debtor has the clear ability to pay the claim and the Government effectively can enforce payment, with due regard for the exemptions available to the debtor under state and Federal law and the judicial remedies available to the Government.
(c) Agencies should consult with the Financial Litigation Staff of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys in the Department of Justice prior to referring claims valued at less than the minimum amount.
PARTS 905-999 [RESERVED]
31 CFR Ch. X (7-1-25 Edition)
Financial Crimes Enforc. Network, Treas.

# CHAPTER X—FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Part
Page
1000-1009
[Reserved]
1010
General provisions
1105
1011-1019
[Reserved]
1020
Rules for banks
1188
1021
Rules for casinos and card clubs
1204
1022
Rules for money services businesses
1212
1023
Rules for brokers or dealers in securities
1221
1024
Rules for mutual funds
1231
1025
Rules for insurance companies
1239
1026
Rules for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities
1244
1027
Rules for dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels
1254
1028
Rules for operators of credit card systems
1258
1029
Rules for loan or finance companies
1261
1030
Rules for housing government sponsored enterprises
1265
1031
Rules for persons involved in real estate closings and settlements (EFF. 12-1-25)
1269
1032
Rules for investment advisers (EFF. 1-1-26)
1277
1033-1059
[Reserved]
1060
Provisions relating to the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010
1283
1061-1099
[Reserved]
PARTS 1000-1009 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1010

# PART 1010—GENERAL PROVISIONS

# Subpart A—General Definitions
Sec.
1010.100
General definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1010.200
General.
1010.205
Exempted anti-money laundering programs for certain financial institutions.
1010.210
Anti-money laundering programs.
1010.220
Customer identification program requirements.
1010.230
Beneficial ownership requirements for legal entity customers.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made
1010.300
General.
1010.301
Determination by the Secretary.
1010.305
[Reserved]
1010.306
Filing of reports.
1010.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
1010.311
Filing obligations for reports of transactions in currency.
1010.312
Identification required.
1010.313
Aggregation.
1010.314
Structured transactions.
1010.315
Exemptions for non-bank financial institutions.
1010.320
Reports of suspicious transactions.
1010.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.
1010.331
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received as bail by court clerks.
1010.340
Reports of transportation of currency or monetary instruments.
1010.350
Reports of foreign financial accounts.
1010.360
Reports of transactions with foreign financial agencies.
1010.370
Reports of certain domestic transactions.
1010.380
Reports of beneficial ownership information.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained
1010.400
General.
1010.401
Determination by the Secretary.
1010.405
[Reserved]
1010.410
Records to be made and retained by financial institutions.
1010.415
Purchases of bank checks and drafts, cashier's checks, money orders and traveler's checks.
1010.420
Records to be made and retained by persons having financial interests in foreign financial accounts.
1010.430
Nature of records and retention period.
1010.440
Person outside the United States.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1010.500
General.
1010.505
Definitions.
1010.520
Information sharing between government agencies and financial institutions.
1010.530
[Reserved]
1010.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures
1010.600
General.

# Special Due Diligence for Correspondent Accounts and Private Banking Accounts
1010.605
Definitions.
1010.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
1010.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
1010.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
1010.640
[Reserved]

# Special Measures Under Section 311 of the USA Patriot Act and Law Enforcement Access to Foreign Bank Records
1010.651
Special measures against Burma.
1010.653
Special measures against Commercial Bank of Syria.
1010.658
Special measures against FBME Bank, Ltd.
1010.659
Special measures against North Korea.
1010.660
Special measures against Bank of Dandong.
1010.661
Special measures against Iran.
1010.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

# Subpart G—Administrative Rulings
1010.710
Scope.
1010.711
Submitting requests.
1010.712
Nonconforming requests.
1010.713
Oral communications.
1010.714
Withdrawing requests.
1010.715
Issuing rulings.
1010.716
Modifying or rescinding rulings.
1010.717
Disclosing information.

# Subpart H—Enforcement; Penalties; and Forfeiture
1010.810
Enforcement.
1010.820
[Reserved]
1010.821
Penalty adjustment and table.
1010.830
Forfeiture of currency or monetary instruments.
1010.840
Criminal penalty.
1010.850
Enforcement authority with respect to transportation of currency or monetary instruments.

# Subpart I—Summons
1010.911
General.
1010.912
Persons who may issue summons.
1010.913
Contents of summons.
1010.914
Service of summons.
1010.915
Examination of witnesses and records.
1010.916
Enforcement of summons.
1010.917
Payment of expenses.

# Subpart J—Miscellaneous
1010.920
Access to records.
1010.930
Rewards for informants.
1010.940
Photographic or other reproductions of Government obligations.
1010.950
Availability of information—general.
1010.955
Availability of beneficial ownership information reported under this part.
1010.960
Disclosure.
1010.970
Exceptions, exemptions, and reports.
1010.980
Dollars as including foreign currency.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5336; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 2006, Pub. L. 114-41, 129 Stat. 457; sec. 701 Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599; sec. 6403, Pub. L. 116-283, 134 Stat. 3388.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Definitions
§ 1010.100
General definitions.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024.
When used in this chapter and in forms prescribed under this chapter, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meanings ascribed in this subpart. Terms applicable to a particular type of financial institution or specific part or subpart of this chapter are located in that part or subpart. Terms may have different meanings in different parts or subparts.
(a)
Accept.
A receiving financial institution, other than the recipient's financial institution, accepts a transmittal order by executing the transmittal order. A recipient's financial institution accepts a transmittal order by paying the recipient, by notifying the recipient of the receipt of the order or by otherwise becoming obligated to carry out the order.
(b)
At one time.
For purposes of § 1010.340 of this part, a person who transports, mails, ships or receives; is about to or attempts to transport, mail or ship; or causes the transportation, mailing, shipment or receipt of monetary instruments, is deemed to do so “at one time” if:
(1) That person either alone, in conjunction with or on behalf of others;
(2) Transports, mails, ships or receives in any manner; is about to transport, mail or ship in any manner; or causes the transportation, mailing, shipment or receipt in any manner of;
(3) Monetary instruments;
(4) Into the United States or out of the United States;
(5) Totaling more than $10,000;
(6)(i) On one calendar day; or
(ii) If for the purpose of evading the reporting requirements of § 1010.340, on one or more days.
(c)
Attorney General.
The Attorney General of the United States.
(d)
Bank.
Each agent, agency, branch or office within the United States of any person doing business in one or more of the capacities listed below:
(1) A commercial bank or trust company organized under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(2) A private bank;
(3) A savings and loan association or a building and loan association organized under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(4) An insured institution as defined in section 401 of the National Housing Act;
(5) A savings bank, industrial bank or other thrift institution;
(6) A credit union organized under the law of any State or of the United States;
(7) Any other organization (except a money services business) chartered under the banking laws of any state and subject to the supervision of the
bank supervisory authorities of a State;
(8) A bank organized under foreign law;
(9) Any national banking association or corporation acting under the provisions of section 25(a) of the Act of Dec. 23, 1913, as added by the Act of Dec. 24, 1919, ch. 18, 41 Stat. 378, as amended (12 U.S.C. 611-32).
(e)
Bank Secrecy Act.
The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, its amendments, and the other statutes relating to the subject matter of that Act, have come to be referred to as the Bank Secrecy Act. These statutes are codified at 12 U.S.C. 1829b, 12 U.S.C. 1951-1959, 18 U.S.C. 1956, 18 U.S.C. 1957, 18 U.S.C. 1960, and 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332 and notes thereto.
(f)
Beneficiary.
The person to be paid by the beneficiary's bank.
(g)
Beneficiary's bank.
The bank or foreign bank identified in a payment order in which an account of the beneficiary is to be credited pursuant to the order or which otherwise is to make payment to the beneficiary if the order does not provide for payment to an account.
(h)
Broker or dealer in securities.
A broker or dealer in securities, registered or required to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(i)
Business day.
As used in this chapter with respect to banks, business day means that day, as normally communicated to its depository customers, on which a bank routinely posts a particular transaction to its customer's account.
(j)
Commodity.
Any good, article, service, right, or interest described in section 1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”), 7 U.S.C. 1a(4).
(k)
Common carrier.
Any person engaged in the business of transporting individuals or goods for a fee who holds himself out as ready to engage in such transportation for hire and who undertakes to do so indiscriminately for all persons who are prepared to pay the fee for the particular service offered.
(l)
Contract of sale.
Any sale, agreement of sale, or agreement to sell as described in section 1a(7) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 1a(7).
(m)
Currency.
The coin and paper money of the United States or of any other country that is designated as legal tender and that circulates and is customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in the country of issuance. Currency includes U.S. silver certificates, U.S. notes and Federal Reserve notes. Currency also includes official foreign bank notes that are customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in a foreign country.
(n)
Deposit account.
Deposit accounts include transaction accounts described in paragraph (ccc) of this section, savings accounts, and other time deposits.
(o)
Domestic.
When used herein, refers to the doing of business within the United States, and limits the applicability of the provision where it appears to the performance by such institutions or agencies of functions within the United States.
(p)
Established customer.
A person with an account with the financial institution, including a loan account or deposit or other asset account, or a person with respect to which the financial institution has obtained and maintains on file the person's name and address, as well as taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, and to which the financial institution provides financial services relying on that information.
(q)
Execution date.
The day on which the receiving financial institution may properly issue a transmittal order in execution of the sender's order. The execution date may be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received, and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received. If the sender's instruction states a payment date, the execution date is the payment date or an earlier date on which execution is reasonably necessary to allow payment to the recipient on the payment date.
(r)
Federal functional regulator.
(1) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
(2) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
(3) The Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(4) The Office of Thrift Supervision;
(5) The National Credit Union Administration;
(6) The Securities and Exchange Commission; or
(7) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(s)
FinCEN.
FinCEN means the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
(t)
Financial institution.
Each agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of any person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern, in one or more of the capacities listed below:
(1) A bank (except bank credit card systems);
(2) A broker or dealer in securities;
(3) A money services business as defined in paragraph (ff) of this section;
(4) A telegraph company;
(5)(i)
Casino.
A casino or gambling casino that: Is duly licensed or authorized to do business as such in the United States, whether under the laws of a State or of a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act or other Federal, State, or tribal law or arrangement affecting Indian lands (including, without limitation, a casino operating on the assumption or under the view that no such authorization is required for casino operation on Indian lands); and has gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1 million. The term includes the principal headquarters and every domestic branch or place of business of the casino.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (t)(5), “gross annual gaming revenue” means the gross gaming revenue received by a casino, during either the previous business year or the current business year of the casino. A casino or gambling casino which is a casino for purposes of this chapter solely because its gross annual gaming revenue exceeds $1,000,000 during its current business year, shall not be considered a casino for purposes of this chapter prior to the time in its current business year that its gross annual gaming revenue exceeds $1,000,000.
(iii) Any reference in this chapter, other than in this paragraph (t)(5) and in paragraph (t)(6) of this section, to a casino shall also include a reference to a card club, unless the provision in question contains specific language varying its application to card clubs or excluding card clubs from its application;
(6)(i)
Card club.
A card club, gaming club, card room, gaming room, or similar gaming establishment that is duly licensed or authorized to do business as such in the United States, whether under the laws of a State, of a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or of a political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act or other Federal, State, or tribal law or arrangement affecting Indian lands (including, without limitation, an establishment operating on the assumption or under the view that no such authorization is required for operation on Indian lands for an establishment of such type), and that has gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1,000,000. The term includes the principal headquarters and every domestic branch or place of business of the establishment. The term “casino,” as used in this chapter shall include a reference to “card club” to the extent provided in paragraph (t)(5)(iii) of this section.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (t)(6), “gross annual gaming revenue” means the gross revenue derived from or generated by customer gaming activity (whether in the form of per-game or per-table fees, however computed, rentals, or otherwise) and received by an establishment, during either the establishment's previous business year or its current business year. A card club that is a financial institution for purposes of this chapter solely because its gross annual revenue exceeds $1,000,000 during its current business year, shall not be considered a financial institution for purposes of this chapter prior to the time in its current business year when its gross annual revenue exceeds $1,000,000;
(7) A person subject to supervision by any state or Federal bank supervisory authority;
(8) A futures commission merchant;
(9) An introducing broker in commodities; or
(10) A mutual fund.
(u)
Foreign bank.
A bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
(v)
Foreign financial agency.
A person acting outside the United States for a person (except for a country, a monetary or financial authority acting as a monetary or financial authority, or an international financial institution of which the United States Government is a member) as a financial institution, bailee, depository trustee, or agent, or acting in a similar way related to money, credit, securities, gold, or a transaction in money, credit, securities, or gold.
(w)
Funds transfer.
The series of transactions, beginning with the originator's payment order, made for the purpose of making payment to the beneficiary of the order. The term includes any payment order issued by the originator's bank or an intermediary bank intended to carry out the originator's payment order. A funds transfer is completed by acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary of the originator's payment order. Electronic fund transfers as defined in section 903(7) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(7)), as well as any other funds transfers that are made through an automated clearinghouse, an automated teller machine, or a point-of-sale system, are excluded from this definition.
(x)
Futures commission merchant.
Any person registered or required to be registered as a futures commission merchant with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) under the CEA, except persons who register pursuant to section 4f(a)(2) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2).
(y)
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act.
The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, codified at 25 U.S.C. 2701-2721 and 18 U.S.C. 1166-68.
(z)
Intermediary bank.
A receiving bank other than the originator's bank or the beneficiary's bank.
(aa)
Intermediary financial institution.
A receiving financial institution, other than the transmittor's financial institution or the recipient's financial institution. The term intermediary financial institution includes an intermediary bank.
(bb)
Introducing broker-commodities.
Any person registered or required to be registered as an introducing broker with the CFTC under the CEA, except persons who register pursuant to section 4f(a)(2) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2).
(cc)
Investment security.
An instrument which:
(1) Is issued in bearer or registered form;
(2) Is of a type commonly dealt in upon securities exchanges or markets or commonly recognized in any area in which it is issued or dealt in as a medium for investment;
(3) Is either one of a class or series or by its terms is divisible into a class or series of instruments; and
(4) Evidences a share, participation or other interest in property or in an enterprise or evidences an obligation of the issuer.
(dd)
Monetary instruments.
(1) Monetary instruments include:
(i) Currency;
(ii) Traveler's checks in any form;
(iii) All negotiable instruments (including personal checks, business checks, official bank checks, cashier's checks, third-party checks, promissory notes (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), and money orders) that are either in bearer form, endorsed without restriction, made out to a fictitious payee (for the purposes of § 1010.340), or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery;
(iv) Incomplete instruments (including personal checks, business checks, official bank checks, cashier's checks, third-party checks, promissory notes (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), and money orders) signed but with the payee's name omitted; and
(v) Securities or stock in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery.
(2) Monetary instruments do not include warehouse receipts or bills of lading.
(ee) [Reserved]
(ff)
Money services business.
A person wherever located doing business
,
whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized or licensed business concern, wholly or in substantial part within the United States, in one or more of the capacities listed in paragraphs (ff)(1) through (ff)(7) of this section. This includes but is not limited to maintenance of any agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States.
(1)
Dealer in foreign exchange.
A person that accepts the currency, or other monetary instruments, funds, or other instruments denominated in the currency, of one or more countries in exchange for the currency, or other monetary instruments, funds, or other instruments denominated in the currency, of one or more other countries in an amount greater than $1,000 for any other person on any day in one or more transactions, whether or not for same-day delivery.
(2)
Check casher
—(i)
In general.
A person that accepts checks (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), or monetary instruments (as defined at § 1010.100(dd)(1)(ii), (iii), (iv), and (v)) in return for currency or a combination of currency and other monetary instruments or other instruments, in an amount greater than $1,000 for any person on any day in one or more transactions.
(ii)
Facts and circumstances; Limitations.
Whether a person is a check casher as described in this section is a matter of facts and circumstances. The term “check casher” shall not include:
(A) A person that sells prepaid access in exchange for a check (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), monetary instrument or other instrument;
(B) A person that solely accepts monetary instruments as payment for goods or services other than check cashing services;
(C) A person that engages in check cashing for the verified maker of the check who is a customer otherwise buying goods and services;
(D) A person that redeems its own checks; or
(E) A person that only holds a customer's check as collateral for repayment by the customer of a loan.
(3)
Issuer or seller of traveler's checks or money orders.
A person that
(i) Issues traveler's checks or money orders that are sold in an amount greater than $1,000 to any person on any day in one or more transactions; or
(ii) Sells traveler's checks or money orders in an amount greater than $1,000 to any person on any day in one or more transactions.
(4)
Provider of prepaid access
—(i)
In general.
A provider of prepaid access is the participant within a prepaid program that agrees to serve as the principal conduit for access to information from its fellow program participants. The participants in each prepaid access program must determine a single participant within the prepaid program to serve as the provider of prepaid access.
(ii)
Considerations for provider determination.
In the absence of registration as the provider of prepaid access for a prepaid program by one of the participants in a prepaid access program, the provider of prepaid access is the person with principal oversight and control over the prepaid program. Which person exercises “principal oversight and control” is a matter of facts and circumstances. Activities that indicate “principal oversight and control” include:
(A) Organizing the prepaid program;
(B) Setting the terms and conditions of the prepaid program and determining that the terms have not been exceeded;
(C) Determining the other businesses that will participate in the prepaid program, which may include the issuing bank, the payment processor, or the distributor;
(D) Controlling or directing the appropriate party to initiate, freeze, or terminate prepaid access; and
(E) Engaging in activity that demonstrates oversight and control of the prepaid program.
(iii)
Prepaid program.
A prepaid program is an arrangement under which one or more persons acting together
provide(s) prepaid access. However, an arrangement is
not
a prepaid program if:
(A) It provides closed loop prepaid access to funds not to exceed $2,000 maximum value that can be associated with a prepaid access device or vehicle on any day;
(B) It provides prepaid access solely to funds provided by a Federal, State, local, Territory and Insular Possession, or Tribal government agency;
(C) It provides prepaid access solely to funds from pre-tax flexible spending arrangements for health care and dependent care expenses, or from Health Reimbursement Arrangements (as defined in 26 U.S.C. 105(b) and 125) for health care expenses; or
(D) (
1
) It provides prepaid access solely to:
(
i
) Employment benefits, incentives, wages or salaries; or
(
ii
) Funds not to exceed $1,000 maximum value and from which no more than $1,000 maximum value can be initially or subsequently loaded, used, or withdrawn on any day through a device or vehicle; and
(
2
) It does not permit:
(
i
) Funds or value to be transmitted internationally;
(
ii
) Transfers between or among users of prepaid access within a prepaid program; or
(
iii
) Loading additional funds or the value of funds from non-depository sources.
(5)
Money transmitter
—(i)
In general.
(A) A person that provides money transmission services. The term “money transmission services” means the acceptance of currency, funds, or other value that substitutes for currency from one person
and
the transmission of currency, funds, or other value that substitutes for currency to another location or person by any means. “Any means” includes, but is not limited to, through a financial agency or institution; a Federal Reserve Bank or other facility of one or more Federal Reserve Banks, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or both; an electronic funds transfer network; or an informal value transfer system; or
(B) Any other person engaged in the transfer of funds.
(ii)
Facts and circumstances; Limitations.
Whether a person is a money transmitter as described in this section is a matter of facts and circumstances. The term “money transmitter” shall not include a person that only:
(A) Provides the delivery, communication, or network access services used by a money transmitter to support money transmission services;
(B) Acts as a payment processor to facilitate the purchase of, or payment of a bill for, a good or service through a clearance and settlement system by agreement with the creditor or seller;
(C) Operates a clearance and settlement system or otherwise acts as an intermediary solely between BSA regulated institutions. This includes but is not limited to the Fedwire system, electronic funds transfer networks, certain registered clearing agencies regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), and derivatives clearing organizations, or other clearinghouse arrangements established by a financial agency or institution;
(D) Physically transports currency, other monetary instruments, other commercial paper, or other value that substitutes for currency as a person primarily engaged in such business, such as an armored car, from one person to the same person at another location or to an account belonging to the same person at a financial institution, provided that the person engaged in physical transportation has no more than a custodial interest in the currency, other monetary instruments, other commercial paper, or other value at any point during the transportation;
(E) Provides prepaid access; or
(F) Accepts and transmits funds only integral to the sale of goods or the provision of services, other than money transmission services, by the person who is accepting and transmitting the funds.
(6)
U.S. Postal Service.
The United States Postal Service, except with respect to the sale of postage or philatelic products.
(7)
Seller of prepaid access.
Any person that receives funds or the value of funds in exchange for an initial loading or subsequent loading of prepaid access if that person:
(i) Sells prepaid access offered under a prepaid program that can be used before verification of customer identification under § 1022.210(d)(1)(iv); or
(ii) Sells prepaid access (including closed loop prepaid access) to funds that exceed $10,000 to any person during any one day, and has not implemented policies and procedures reasonably adapted to prevent such a sale.
(8)
Limitation.
For the purposes of this section, the term “money services business” shall not include:
(i) A bank or foreign bank;
(ii) A person registered with, and functionally regulated or examined by, the SEC or the CFTC, or a foreign financial agency that engages in financial activities that, if conducted in the United States, would require the foreign financial agency to be registered with the SEC or CFTC; or
(iii) A natural person who engages in an activity identified in paragraphs (ff)(1) through (ff)(5) of this section on an infrequent basis and not for gain or profit.
(gg)
Mutual fund.
An “investment company” (as the term is defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3)) that is an “open-end company” (as that term is defined in section 5 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) that is registered or is required to register with the Commission under section 8 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8).
(hh)
Option on a commodity.
Any agreement, contract, or transaction described in section 1a(26) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 1a(26).
(ii)
Originator.
The sender of the first payment order in a funds transfer.
(jj)
Originator's bank.
The receiving bank to which the payment order of the originator is issued if the originator is not a bank or foreign bank, or the originator if the originator is a bank or foreign bank.
(kk)
Payment date.
The day on which the amount of the transmittal order is payable to the recipient by the recipient's financial institution. The payment date may be determined by instruction of the sender, but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received by the recipient's financial institution and, unless otherwise prescribed by instruction, is the date the order is received by the recipient's financial institution.
(ll)
Payment order.
An instruction of a sender to a receiving bank, transmitted orally, electronically, or in writing, to pay, or to cause another bank or foreign bank to pay, a fixed or determinable amount of money to a beneficiary if:
(1) The instruction does not state a condition to payment to the beneficiary other than time of payment;
(2) The receiving bank is to be reimbursed by debiting an account of, or otherwise receiving payment from, the sender; and
(3) The instruction is transmitted by the sender directly to the receiving bank or to an agent, funds transfer system, or communication system for transmittal to the receiving bank.
(mm)
Person.
An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a trust or estate, a joint stock company, an association, a syndicate, joint venture, or other unincorporated organization or group, an Indian Tribe (as that term is defined in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act), and all entities cognizable as legal personalities.
(nn)
Receiving bank.
The bank or foreign bank to which the sender's instruction is addressed.
(oo)
Receiving financial institution.
The financial institution or foreign financial agency to which the sender's instruction is addressed. The term receiving financial institution includes a receiving bank.
(pp)
Recipient.
The person to be paid by the recipient's financial institution. The term recipient includes a beneficiary, except where the recipient's financial institution is a financial institution other than a bank.
(qq)
Recipient's financial institution.
The financial institution or foreign financial agency identified in a transmittal order in which an account of the recipient is to be credited pursuant to the transmittal order or which otherwise is to make payment to the recipient if the order does not provide for payment to an account. The term recipient's financial institution includes a beneficiary's bank, except where the beneficiary is a recipient's financial institution.
(rr)
Secretary.
The Secretary of the Treasury or any person duly authorized by the Secretary to perform the function mentioned.
(ss)
Security.
Security means any instrument or interest described in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10).
(tt)
Self-regulatory organization:
(1) Shall have the same meaning as provided in section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)); and
(2) Means a “registered entity” or a “registered futures association” as provided in section 1a(29) or 17, respectively, of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(29), 21).
(uu)
Sender.
The person giving the instruction to the receiving financial institution.
(vv)
State.
The States of the United States and, wherever necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, the District of Columbia.
(ww)
Prepaid access.
Access to funds or the value of funds that have been paid in advance and can be retrieved or transferred at some point in the future through an electronic device or vehicle, such as a card, code, electronic serial number, mobile identification number, or personal identification number.
(xx)
Structure (structuring).
For purposes of § 1010.314, a person structures a transaction if that person, acting alone, or in conjunction with, or on behalf of, other persons, conducts or attempts to conduct one or more transactions in currency, in any amount, at one or more financial institutions, on one or more days, in any manner, for the purpose of evading the reporting requirements under §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311 and 1021.313 of this chapter. “In any manner” includes, but is not limited to, the breaking down of a single sum of currency exceeding $10,000 into smaller sums, including sums at or below $10,000, or the conduct of a transaction, or series of currency transactions at or below $10,000. The transaction or transactions need not exceed the $10,000 reporting threshold at any single financial institution on any single day in order to constitute structuring within the meaning of this definition.
(yy)
Taxpayer Identification Number.
Taxpayer Identification Number (“TIN”) is defined by section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109) and the Internal Revenue Service regulations implementing that section (
e.g.,
social security number or employer identification number).
(zz)
Territories and Insular Possessions.
The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and all other territories and possessions of the United States other than the Indian lands and the District of Columbia.
(aaa) [Reserved]
(bbb)
Transaction.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (bbb)(2) of this section, transaction means a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, security, contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, option on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, option on a commodity, purchase or redemption of any money order, payment or order for any money remittance or transfer, purchase or redemption of casino chips or tokens, or other gaming instruments or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.
(2) For purposes of §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311, 1021.313, and other provisions of this chapter relating solely to the report required by those sections, the term “transaction in currency” shall mean a transaction involving the physical transfer of currency from one person to another. A transaction which is a transfer of funds by means of bank check, bank draft, wire transfer, or other written order, and which does not include the physical transfer of currency, is not a transaction in currency for this purpose.
(ccc)
Transaction account.
Transaction accounts include those accounts described in 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C), money market accounts and similar
accounts that take deposits and are subject to withdrawal by check or other negotiable order.
(ddd)
Transmittal of funds.
A series of transactions beginning with the transmittor's transmittal order, made for the purpose of making payment to the recipient of the order. The term includes any transmittal order issued by the transmittor's financial institution or an intermediary financial institution intended to carry out the transmittor's transmittal order. The term transmittal of funds includes a funds transfer. A transmittal of funds is completed by acceptance by the recipient's financial institution of a transmittal order for the benefit of the recipient of the transmittor's transmittal order. Electronic fund transfers as defined in section 903(7) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(7)), as well as any other funds transfers that are made through an automated clearinghouse, an automated teller machine, or a point-of-sale system, are excluded from this definition.
(eee)
Transmittal order.
The term transmittal order includes a payment order and is an instruction of a sender to a receiving financial institution, transmitted orally, electronically, or in writing, to pay, or cause another financial institution or foreign financial agency to pay, a fixed or determinable amount of money to a recipient if:
(1) The instruction does not state a condition to payment to the recipient other than time of payment;
(2) The receiving financial institution is to be reimbursed by debiting an account of, or otherwise receiving payment from, the sender; and
(3) The instruction is transmitted by the sender directly to the receiving financial institution or to an agent or communication system for transmittal to the receiving financial institution.
(fff)
Transmittor.
The sender of the first transmittal order in a transmittal of funds. The term transmittor includes an originator, except where the transmittor's financial institution is a financial institution or foreign financial agency other than a bank or foreign bank.
(ggg)
Transmittor's financial institution.
The receiving financial institution to which the transmittal order of the transmittor is issued if the transmittor is not a financial institution or foreign financial agency, or the transmittor if the transmittor is a financial institution or foreign financial agency. The term transmittor's financial institution includes an originator's bank, except where the originator is a transmittor's financial institution other than a bank or foreign bank.
(hhh)
United States.
The States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Indian lands (as that term is defined in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act), and the Territories and Insular Possessions of the United States.
(iii)
U.S. person.
(1) A United States citizen; or (2) A person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), that is established or organized under the laws of a State or the United States. Non-U.S. person means a person that is not a U.S. person.
(jjj)
U.S. Postal Service.
The United States Postal Service, except with respect to the sale of postage or philatelic products.
(kkk)
Closed loop prepaid access.
Prepaid access to funds or the value of funds that can be used only for goods or services in transactions involving a defined merchant or location (or set of locations), such as a specific retailer or retail chain, a college campus, or a subway system.
(lll)
Loan or finance company.
A person engaged in activities that take place wholly or in substantial part within the United States in one or more of the capacities listed below, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern. This includes but is not limited to maintenance of any agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States. For the purposes of this paragraph (lll), the term “loan or finance company” shall include a sole proprietor acting as a loan or finance company, and shall not include: A bank, a person registered with and functionally regulated or examined by the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, any government sponsored enterprise regulated by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, any Federal or state agency or authority
administering mortgage or housing assistance, fraud prevention or foreclosure prevention programs, or an individual employed by a loan or finance company or financial institution under this part. A loan or finance company is not a financial institution as defined in the regulations in this part at 1010.100(t).
(1)
Residential mortgage lender or originator.
A residential mortgage lender or originator includes:
(i)
Residential mortgage lender.
The person to whom the debt arising from a residential mortgage loan is initially payable on the face of the evidence of indebtedness or, if there is no such evidence of indebtedness, by agreement, or to whom the obligation is initially assigned at or immediately after settlement. The term “residential mortgage lender” shall not include an individual who finances the sale of the individual's own dwelling or real property.
(ii)
Residential mortgage originator.
A person who accepts a residential mortgage loan application or offers or negotiates terms of a residential mortgage loan.
(iii)
Residential mortgage loan.
A loan that is secured by a mortgage, deed of trust, or other equivalent consensual security interest on:
(A) A residential structure that contains one to four units, including, if used as a residence, an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, mobile home or trailer; or
(B) Residential real estate upon which such a structure is constructed or intended to be constructed.
(2) [Reserved]
(mmm)
Housing government sponsored enterprise.
(1) A “housing government sponsored enterprise” is one of the following “Regulated Entities” under 12 U.S.C. 4502(20) subject to the general supervision and regulation of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA):
(i) The Federal National Mortgage Association;
(ii) The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; or
(iii) Each Federal Home Loan Bank.
(2) The term “housing government sponsored enterprise” does not include any “Entity-Affiliated Party,” as defined in 12 U.S.C. 4502(11).
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43596, July 21, 2011; 76 FR 45419, July 29, 2011; 77 FR 8157, Feb. 14, 2012; 78 FR 72817, Dec. 4, 2013; 79 FR 10375, Feb. 25, 2014]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024, § 1010.100 was amended, effective Jan. 1, 2026.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1010.200
General.
Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to subpart B of its chapter X Part for any additional program requirements. Unless otherwise indicated, the program requirements contained in this subpart B apply to all financial institutions (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)).
§ 1010.205
Exempted anti-money laundering programs for certain financial institutions.
(a)
Exempt financial institutions.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following financial institutions (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) concerning the establishment of anti-money laundering programs:
(1) An agency of the United States Government, or of a State or local government, carrying out a duty or power of a business described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2); and
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Temporary exemption for certain financial institutions.
(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following financial institutions (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) concerning the establishment of anti-money laundering programs:
(i) Pawnbroker;
(ii) Travel agency;
(iii) Telegraph company;
(iv) Seller of vehicles, including automobiles, airplanes, and boats;
(v) Person involved in real estate closings and settlements;
(vi) Commodity pool operator;
(vii) Commodity trading advisor; or
(viii) Investment company.
(2)—(3) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitation on exemption.
The exemptions described in paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to any financial institution that is otherwise required to establish an anti-money laundering program by this chapter.
(d)
Compliance obligations of deferred financial institutions.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve an exempt financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31 of the U.S.C. and this chapter.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 8157, Feb. 14, 2012; 85 FR 57137, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 1010.210
Anti-money laundering programs.
Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to subpart B of its chapter X part for any additional anti-money laundering program requirements.
§ 1010.220
Customer identification program requirements.
Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to subpart B of its chapter X part for any additional customer identification program requirements.
§ 1010.230
Beneficial ownership requirements for legal entity customers.
(a)
In general.
Covered financial institutions are required to establish and maintain written procedures that are reasonably designed to identify and verify beneficial owners of legal entity customers and to include such procedures in their anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and its implementing regulations.
(b)
Identification and verification.
With respect to legal entity customers, the covered financial institution's customer due diligence procedures shall enable the institution to:
(1) Identify the beneficial owner(s) of each legal entity customer at the time a new account is opened, unless the customer is otherwise excluded pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section or the account is exempted pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section. A covered financial institution may accomplish this either by obtaining a certification in the form of appendix A of this section from the individual opening the account on behalf of the legal entity customer, or by obtaining from the individual the information required by the form by another means, provided the individual certifies, to the best of the individual's knowledge, the accuracy of the information; and
(2) Verify the identity of each beneficial owner identified to the covered financial institution, according to risk-based procedures to the extent reasonable and practicable. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements required for verifying the identity of customers that are individuals under § 1020.220(a)(2) of this chapter (for banks); § 1023.220(a)(2) of this chapter (for brokers or dealers in securities); § 1024.220(a)(2) of this chapter (for mutual funds); or § 1026.220(a)(2) of this chapter (for futures commission merchants or introducing brokers in commodities); provided, that in the case of documentary verification, the financial institution may use photocopies or other reproductions of the documents listed in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) of § 1020.220 of this chapter (for banks); § 1023.220 of this chapter (for brokers or dealers in securities); § 1024.220 of this chapter (for mutual funds); or § 1026.220 of this chapter (for futures commission merchants or introducing brokers in commodities). A covered financial institution may rely on the information supplied by the legal entity customer regarding the identity of its beneficial owner or owners, provided that it has no knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of such information.
(c)
Account.
For purposes of this section,
account
has the meaning set forth in § 1020.100(a) of this chapter (for banks); § 1023.100(a) of this chapter (for brokers or dealers in securities); § 1024.100(a) of this chapter (for mutual funds); and § 1026.100(a) of this chapter (for futures commission merchants or introducing brokers in commodities).
(d)
Beneficial owner.
For purposes of this section,
beneficial owner
means each of the following:
(1) Each individual, if any, who, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, owns 25 percent or more of the equity interests of a legal entity customer; and
(2) A single individual with significant responsibility to control, manage, or direct a legal entity customer, including:
(i) An executive officer or senior manager (
e.g.,
a Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Managing Member, General Partner, President, Vice President, or Treasurer); or
(ii) Any other individual who regularly performs similar functions.
(3) If a trust owns directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, 25 percent or more of the equity interests of a legal entity customer, the beneficial owner for purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall mean the trustee. If an entity listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section owns directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, 25 percent or more of the equity interests of a legal entity customer, no individual need be identified for purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section with respect to that entity's interests.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
The number of individuals that satisfy the definition of “beneficial owner,” and therefore must be identified and verified pursuant to this section, may vary. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, depending on the factual circumstances, up to four individuals may need to be identified. Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, only one individual must be identified. It is possible that in some circumstances the same person or persons might be identified pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. A covered financial institution may also identify additional individuals as part of its customer due diligence if it deems appropriate on the basis of risk.
(e)
Legal entity customer.
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Legal entity customer
means a corporation, limited liability company, or other entity that is created by the filing of a public document with a Secretary of State or similar office, a general partnership, and any similar entity formed under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction that opens an account.
(2)
Legal entity customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a State bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (5) of this chapter;
(iii) An issuer of a class of securities registered under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or that is required to file reports under section 15(d) of that Act;
(iv) An investment company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under that Act;
(v) An investment adviser, as defined in section 202(a)(11) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under that Act;
(vi) An exchange or clearing agency, as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that is registered under section 6 or 17A of that Act;
(vii) Any other entity registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(viii) A registered entity, commodity pool operator, commodity trading advisor, retail foreign exchange dealer, swap dealer, or major swap participant, each as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act, that is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(ix) A public accounting firm registered under section 102 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;
(x) A bank holding company, as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841) or savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C 1467a(n));
(xi) A pooled investment vehicle that is operated or advised by a financial institution excluded under paragraph (e)(2) of this section;
(xii) An insurance company that is regulated by a State;
(xiii) A financial market utility designated by the Financial Stability
Oversight Council under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010;
(xiv) A foreign financial institution established in a jurisdiction where the regulator of such institution maintains beneficial ownership information regarding such institution;
(xv) A non-U.S. governmental department, agency or political subdivision that engages only in governmental rather than commercial activities; and
(xvi) Any legal entity only to the extent that it opens a private banking account subject to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(3) The following legal entity customers are subject only to the control prong of the beneficial ownership requirement:
(i) A pooled investment vehicle that is operated or advised by a financial institution not excluded under paragraph (e)(2) of this section; and
(ii) Any legal entity that is established as a nonprofit corporation or similar entity and has filed its organizational documents with the appropriate State authority as necessary.
(f)
Covered financial institution.
For the purposes of this section,
covered financial institution
has the meaning set forth in § 1010.605(e)(1) of this chapter.
(g)
New account.
For the purposes of this section,
new account
means each account opened at a covered financial institution by a legal entity customer on or after the applicability date.
(h)
Exemptions.
(1) Covered financial institutions are exempt from the requirements to identify and verify the identity of the beneficial owner(s) set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) and (2) of this section only to the extent the financial institution opens an account for a legal entity customer that is:
(i) At the point-of-sale to provide credit products, including commercial private label credit cards, solely for the purchase of retail goods and/or services at these retailers, up to a limit of $50,000;
(ii) To finance the purchase of postage and for which payments are remitted directly by the financial institution to the provider of the postage products;
(iii) To finance insurance premiums and for which payments are remitted directly by the financial institution to the insurance provider or broker;
(iv) To finance the purchase or leasing of equipment and for which payments are remitted directly by the financial institution to the vendor or lessor of this equipment.
(2)
Limitations on Exemptions.
(i) The exemptions identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section do not apply to transaction accounts through which a legal entity customer can make payments to, or receive payments from, third parties.
(ii) If there is the possibility of a cash refund on the account activity identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section, then beneficial ownership of the legal entity customer must be identified and verified by the financial institution as required by this section, either at the time of initial remittance, or at the time such refund occurs.
(i)
Recordkeeping.
A covered financial institution must establish procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under the procedures implementing paragraph (b) of this section.
(1)
Required records.
At a minimum the record must include:
(i) For identification, any identifying information obtained by the covered financial institution pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, including without limitation the certification (if obtained); and
(ii) For verification, a description of any document relied on (noting the type, any identification number, place of issuance and, if any, date of issuance and expiration), of any non-documentary methods and the results of any measures undertaken, and of the resolution of each substantive discrepancy.
(2)
Retention of records.
A covered financial institution must retain the records made under paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed, and the records made under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section for five years after the record is made.
(j)
Reliance on another financial institution.
A covered financial institution
may rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of the requirements of this section with respect to any legal entity customer of the covered financial institution that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(1) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(2) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and is regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(3) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the covered financial institution that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it will perform (or its agent will perform) the specified requirements of the covered financial institution's procedures to comply with the requirements of this section.
ER28SE17.004
ER28SE17.005
ER28SE17.006
ER28SE17.007
[81 FR 29451, May 11, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 45183, Sept. 28, 2017]

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made
§ 1010.300
General.
Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its chapter X part for any additional reporting requirements. Unless otherwise indicated, the reporting requirements contained in this subpart C apply to all financial institutions.
§ 1010.301
Determination by the Secretary.
The Secretary hereby determines that the reports required by this chapter have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory investigations or proceedings.
§ 1010.305
[Reserved]
§ 1010.306
Filing of reports.
(a)(1) A report required by § 1010.311 or § 1021.311, shall be filed by the financial institution within 15 days following the day on which the reportable transaction occurred.
(2) A copy of each report filed pursuant to §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311 and 1021.313, shall be retained by the financial institution for a period of five years from the date of the report.
(3) All reports required to be filed by §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311 and 1021.313, shall be filed with FinCEN, unless otherwise specified.
(b)(1) A report required by § 1010.340(a) shall be filed at the time of entry into the United States or at the time of departure, mailing or shipping from the United States, unless otherwise specified by the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection.
(2) A report required by § 1010.340(b) shall be filed within 15 days after receipt of the currency or other monetary instruments.
(3) All reports required by § 1010.340 shall be filed with the Customs officer in charge at any port of entry or departure, or as otherwise specified by the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection. Reports required by § 1010.340(a) for currency or other monetary instruments not physically accompanying a person entering or departing from the United States, may be filed by mail on or before the date of entry, departure, mailing or shipping. All reports required by § 1010.340(b) may also be filed by mail. Reports filed by mail shall be addressed to the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Attention: Currency Transportation Reports, Washington, DC 20229.
(c) Reports required to be filed by § 1010.350 shall be filed with FinCEN on or before June 30 of each calendar year with respect to foreign financial accounts exceeding $10,000 maintained during the previous calendar year.
(d) Reports required by § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1010.340, § 1010.350, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter shall be filed on forms prescribed by the Secretary. All information called for in such forms shall be furnished.
(e) Forms to be used in making the reports required by § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1010.350, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter may be obtained from BSA E-Filing System. Forms to be used in making the reports required by § 1010.340 may be obtained from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection or FinCEN.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]
§ 1010.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
Sections 1010.310 through 1010.314 set forth the rules for the reporting by financial institutions of transactions in currency. Unless otherwise indicated, the transactions in currency reporting requirements in §§ 1010.310 through 1010.314 apply to all financial institutions. Each financial institution should refer to subpart C of its chapter X part for any additional transactions in currency reporting requirements.
§ 1010.311
Filing obligations for reports of transactions in currency.
Each financial institution other than a casino shall file a report of each deposit, withdrawal, exchange of currency or other payment or transfer, by, through, or to such financial institution which involves a transaction in currency of more than $10,000, except as otherwise provided in this section.
In the case of the U.S. Postal Service, the obligation contained in the preceding sentence shall not apply to payments or transfers made solely in connection with the purchase of postage or philatelic products.
§ 1010.312
Identification required.
Before concluding any transaction with respect to which a report is required under § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter, a financial institution shall verify and record the name and address of the individual presenting a transaction, as well as record the identity, account number, and the social security or taxpayer identification number, if any, of any person or entity on whose behalf such transaction is to be effected. Verification of the identity of an individual who indicates that he or she is an alien or is not a resident of the United States must be made by passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence (
e.g.,
a Provincial driver's license with indication of home address). Verification of identity in any other case shall be made by examination of a document, other than a bank signature card, that is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors (
e.g.,
a driver's license or credit card). A bank signature card may be relied upon only if it was issued after documents establishing the identity of the individual were examined and notation of the specific information was made on the signature card. In each instance, the specific identifying information (
i.e.,
the account number of the credit card, the driver's license number,
etc.
) used in verifying the identity of the customer shall be recorded on the report, and the mere notation of “known customer” or “bank signature card on file” on the report is prohibited.
§ 1010.313
Aggregation.
(a)
Multiple branches.
A financial institution includes all of its domestic branch offices, and any recordkeeping facility, wherever located, that contains records relating to the transactions of the institution's domestic offices, for purposes of the transactions in currency reporting requirements in this chapter.
(b)
Multiple transactions.
In the case of financial institutions other than casinos, for purposes of the transactions in currency reporting requirements in this chapter, multiple currency transactions shall be treated as a single transaction if the financial institution has knowledge that they are by or on behalf of any person and result in either cash in or cash out totaling more than $10,000 during any one business day (or in the case of the U.S. Postal Service, any one day). Deposits made at night or over a weekend or holiday shall be treated as if received on the next business day following the deposit.
§ 1010.314
Structured transactions.
No person shall for the purpose of evading the transactions in currency reporting requirements of this chapter with respect to such transaction:
(a) Cause or attempt to cause a domestic financial institution to fail to file a report required under the transactions in currency reporting requirements of this chapter;
(b) Cause or attempt to cause a domestic financial institution to file a report required under the transactions in currency reporting requirements of this chapter that contains a material omission or misstatement of fact; or
(c) Structure (as that term is defined in § 1010.100(xx)) or assist in structuring, or attempt to structure or assist in structuring, any transaction with one or more domestic financial institutions.
§ 1010.315
Exemptions for non-bank financial institutions.
A non-bank financial institution is not required to file a report otherwise required by § 1010.311 with respect to a transaction in currency between the institution and a commercial bank.
§ 1010.320
Reports of suspicious transactions.
Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to subpart C of its financial institution part in this chapter for any additional suspicious transaction reporting requirements.
§ 1010.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.
(a)
Reporting requirement
—(1)
Reportable transactions
—(i)
In general.
Any person (solely for purposes of section 5331 of title 31, United States Code and this section, “person” shall have the same meaning as under 26 U.S.C. 7701(a)(1)) who, in the course of a trade or business in which such person is engaged, receives currency in excess of $10,000 in 1 transaction (or 2 or more related transactions) shall, except as otherwise provided, make a report of information with respect to the receipt of currency. This section does not apply to amounts received in a transaction reported under 31 U.S.C. 5313 and § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter.
(ii)
Certain financial transactions.
Section 6050I of title 26 of the United States Code requires persons to report information about financial transactions to the IRS, and 31 U.S.C. 5331 requires persons to report the same information to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. This information shall be reported on the same form as prescribed by the Secretary.
(2)
Currency received for the account of another.
Currency in excess of $10,000 received by a person for the account of another must be reported under this section. Thus, for example, a person who collects delinquent accounts receivable for an automobile dealer must report with respect to the receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 from the collection of a particular account even though the proceeds of the collection are credited to the account of the automobile dealer (
i.e.,
where the rights to the proceeds from the account are retained by the automobile dealer and the collection is made on a fee-for-service basis).
(3)
Currency received by agents
— (i)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, a person who in the course of a trade or business acts as an agent (or in some other similar capacity) and receives currency in excess of $10,000 from a principal must report the receipt of currency under this section.
(ii)
Exception.
An agent who receives currency from a principal and uses all of the currency within 15 days in a currency transaction (the “second currency transaction”) which is reportable under section 5312 of title 31, or 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section, and who discloses the name, address, and TIN of the principal to the recipient in the second currency transaction need not report the initial receipt of currency under this section. An agent will be deemed to have met the disclosure requirements of this paragraph (a)(3)(ii) if the agent discloses only the name of the principal and the agent knows that the recipient has the principal's address and taxpayer identification number.
(iii)
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section:

# Example.
B, the principal, gives D, an attorney, $75,000 in currency to purchase real property on behalf of B. Within 15 days D purchases real property for currency from E, a real estate developer, and discloses to E, B's name, address, and taxpayer identification number. Because the transaction qualifies for the exception provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, D need not report with respect to the initial receipt of currency under this section. The exception does not apply, however, if D pays E by means other than currency, or effects the purchase more than 15 days following receipt of the currency from B, or fails to disclose B's name, address, and taxpayer identification number (assuming D does not know that E already has B's address and taxpayer identification number), or purchases the property from a person whose sale of the property is not in the course of that person's trade or business. In any such case, D is required to report the receipt of currency from B under this section.
(b)
Multiple payments.
The receipt of multiple currency deposits or currency installment payments (or other similar payments or prepayments) relating to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), is reported as set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.
(1)
Initial payment in excess of $10,000.
If the initial payment exceeds $10,000, the recipient must report the initial payment within 15 days of its receipt.
(2)
Initial payment of $10,000 or less.
If the initial payment does not exceed $10,000, the recipient must aggregate the initial payment and subsequent
payments made within one year of the initial payment until the aggregate amount exceeds $10,000, and report with respect to the aggregate amount within 15 days after receiving the payment that causes the aggregate amount to exceed $10,000.
(3)
Subsequent payments.
In addition to any other required report, a report must be made each time that previously unreportable payments made within a 12-month period with respect to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), individually or in the aggregate, exceed $10,000. The report must be made within 15 days after receiving the payment in excess of $10,000 or the payment that causes the aggregate amount received in the 12-month period to exceed $10,000. (If more than one report would otherwise be required for multiple currency payments within a 15-day period that relate to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), the recipient may make a single combined report with respect to the payments. The combined report must be made no later than the date by which the first of the separate reports would otherwise be required to be made.)
(4)
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section:

# Example.
On January 10, Year 1, M receives an initial payment in currency of $11,000 with respect to a transaction. M receives subsequent payments in currency with respect to the same transaction of $4,000 on February 15, Year 1, $6,000 on March 20, Year 1, and $12,000 on May 15, Year 1. M must make a report with respect to the payment received on January 10, Year 1, by January 25, Year 1. M must also make a report with respect to the payments totaling $22,000 received from February 15, Year 1, through May 15, Year 1. This report must be made by May 30, Year 1, that is, within 15 days of the date that the subsequent payments, all of which were received within a 12-month period, exceeded $10,000.
(c)
Meaning of terms.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—
(1)
Currency.
The term
currency
means—
(i) The coin and currency of the United States or of any other country, which circulate in and are customarily used and accepted as money in the country in which issued; and
(ii) A cashier's check (by whatever name called, including “treasurer's check” and “bank check”), bank draft, traveler's check, or money order having a face amount of not more than $10,000—
(A) Received in a designated reporting transaction as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section (except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3), (4), and (5) of this section), or
(B) Received in any transaction in which the recipient knows that such instrument is being used in an attempt to avoid the reporting of the transaction under section 5331 and this section.
(2)
Designated reporting transaction.
A designated reporting transaction is a retail sale (or the receipt of funds by a broker or other intermediary in connection with a retail sale) of—
(i) A consumer durable,
(ii) A collectible, or
(iii) A travel or entertainment activity.
(3)
Exception for certain loans.
A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument constitutes the proceeds of a loan from a bank. The recipient may rely on a copy of the loan document, a written statement from the bank, or similar documentation (such as a written lien instruction from the issuer of the instrument) to substantiate that the instrument constitutes loan proceeds.
(4)
Exception for certain installment sales.
A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument is received in payment on a promissory note or an installment sales contract (including a lease that is considered to be a sale for Federal income tax purposes). However, the preceding sentence applies only if—
(i) Promissory notes or installment sales contracts with the same or substantially similar terms are used in the
ordinary course of the recipient's trade or business in connection with sales to ultimate consumers; and
(ii) The total amount of payments with respect to the sale that are received on or before the 60th day after the date of the sale does not exceed 50 percent of the purchase price of the sale.
(5)
Exception for certain down payment plans.
A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument is received pursuant to a payment plan requiring one or more down payments and the payment of the balance of the purchase price by a date no later than the date of the sale (in the case of an item of travel or entertainment, a date no later than the earliest date that any item of travel or entertainment pertaining to the same trip or event is furnished). However, the preceding sentence applies only if—
(i) The recipient uses payment plans with the same or substantially similar terms in the ordinary course of its trade or business in connection with sales to ultimate consumers; and
(ii) The instrument is received more than 60 days prior to the date of the sale (in the case of an item of travel or entertainment, the date on which the final payment is due).
(6)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the definition of “currency” set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section:

# Example 1.
D, an individual, purchases gold coins from M, a coin dealer, for $13,200. D tenders to M in payment United States currency in the amount of $6,200 and a cashier's check in the face amount of $7,000 which D had purchased. Because the sale is a designated reporting transaction, the cashier's check is treated as currency for purposes of 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section. Therefore, because M has received more than $10,000 in currency with respect to the transaction, M must make the report required by 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.

# Example 2.
E, an individual, purchases an automobile from Q, an automobile dealer, for $11,500. E tenders to Q in payment United States currency in the amount of $2,000 and a cashier's check payable to E and Q in the amount of $9,500. The cashier's check constitutes the proceeds of a loan from the bank issuing the check. The origin of the proceeds is evident from provisions inserted by the bank on the check that instruct the dealer to cause a lien to be placed on the vehicle as security for the loan. The sale of the automobile is a designated reporting transaction. However, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, because E has furnished Q documentary information establishing that the cashier's check constitutes the proceeds of a loan from the bank issuing the check, the cashier's check is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.

# Example 3.
F, an individual, purchases an item of jewelry from S, a retail jeweler, for $12,000. F gives S traveler's checks totaling $2,400 and pays the balance with a personal check payable to S in the amount of $9,600. Because the sale is a designated reporting transaction, the traveler's checks are treated as currency for purposes of section 5331 and this section. However, because the personal check is not treated as currency for purposes of section 5331 and this section, S has not received more than $10,000 in currency in the transaction and no report is required to be filed under section 5331 and this section.

# Example 4.
G, an individual, purchases a boat from T, a boat dealer, for $16,500. G pays T with a cashier's check payable to T in the amount of $16,500. The cashier's check is not treated as currency because the face amount of the check is more than $10,000. Thus, no report is required to be made by T under section 5331 and this section.

# Example 5.
H, an individual, arranges with W, a travel agent, for the chartering of a passenger aircraft to transport a group of individuals to a sports event in another city. H also arranges with W for hotel accommodations for the group and for admission tickets to the sports event. In payment, H tenders to W money orders which H had previously purchased. The total amount of the money orders, none of which individually exceeds $10,000 in face amount, exceeds $10,000. Because the transaction is a designated reporting transaction, the money orders are treated as currency for purposes of section 5331 and this section. Therefore, because W has received more than $10,000 in currency with respect to the transaction, W must make the report required by section 5331 and this section.
(7)
Consumer durable.
The term
consumer durable
means an item of tangible personal property of a type that is suitable under ordinary usage for personal consumption or use, that can reasonably be expected to be useful for at least 1 year under ordinary usage, and that has a sales price of more than $10,000. Thus, for example, a $20,000 automobile is a consumer durable
(whether or not it is sold for business use), but a $20,000 dump truck or a $20,000 factory machine is not.
(8)
Collectible.
The term
collectible
means an item described in paragraphs (A) through (D) of section 408 (m)(2) of title 26 of the United States Code (determined without regard to section 408 (m)(3) of title 26 of the United States Code).
(9)
Travel or entertainment activity.
The term
travel or entertainment activity
means an item of travel or entertainment (within the meaning of 26 CFR 1.274-2(b)(1)) pertaining to a single trip or event where the aggregate sales price of the item and all other items pertaining to the same trip or event that are sold in the same transaction (or related transactions) exceeds $10,000.
(10)
Retail sale.
The term
retail sale
means any sale (whether for resale or for any other purpose) made in the course of a trade or business if that trade or business principally consists of making sales to ultimate consumers.
(11)
Trade or business.
The term
trade or business
has the same meaning as under section 162 of title 26, United States Code.
(12)
Transaction.
(i) Solely for purposes of 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section, the term
transaction
means the underlying event precipitating the payer's transfer of currency to the recipient. In this context, transactions include (but are not limited to) a sale of goods or services; a sale of real property; a sale of intangible property; a rental of real or personal property; an exchange of currency for other currency; the establishment or maintenance of or contribution to a custodial, trust, or escrow arrangement; a payment of a preexisting debt; a conversion of currency to a negotiable instrument; a reimbursement for expenses paid; or the making or repayment of a loan. A transaction may not be divided into multiple transactions in order to avoid reporting under this section.
(ii) The term
related transactions
means any transaction conducted between a payer (or its agent) and a recipient of currency in a 24-hour period. Additionally, transactions conducted between a payer (or its agent) and a currency recipient during a period of more than 24 hours are related if the recipient knows or has reason to know that each transaction is one of a series of connected transactions.
(iii) The following examples illustrate the definition of paragraphs (c)(12)(i) and (ii) of this section:

# Example 1.
A person has a tacit agreement with a gold dealer to purchase $36,000 in gold bullion. The $36,000 purchase represents a single transaction under paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section and the reporting requirements of this section cannot be avoided by recasting the single sales transaction into 4 separate $9,000 sales transactions.

# Example 2.
An attorney agrees to represent a client in a criminal case with the attorney's fee to be determined on an hourly basis. In the first month in which the attorney represents the client, the bill for the attorney's services comes to $8,000 which the client pays in currency. In the second month in which the attorney represents the client, the bill for the attorney's services comes to $4,000, which the client again pays in currency. The aggregate amount of currency paid ($12,000) relates to a single transaction as defined in paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section, the sale of legal services relating to the criminal case, and the receipt of currency must be reported under this section.

# Example 3.
A person intends to contribute a total of $45,000 to a trust fund, and the trustee of the fund knows or has reason to know of that intention. The $45,000 contribution is a single transaction under paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section and the reporting requirement of this section cannot be avoided by the grantor's making five separate $9,000 contributions of currency to a single fund or by making five $9,000 contributions of currency to five separate funds administered by a common trustee.

# Example 4.
K, an individual, attends a one day auction and purchases for currency two items, at a cost of $9,240 and $1,732.50 respectively (tax and buyer's premium included). Because the transactions are related transactions as defined in paragraph (c)(12)(ii) of this section, the auction house is required to report the aggregate amount of currency received from the related sales ($10,972.50), even though the auction house accounts separately on its books for each item sold and presents the purchaser with separate bills for each item purchased.

# Example 5.
F, a coin dealer, sells for currency $9,000 worth of gold coins to an individual on three successive days. Under paragraph (c)(12)(ii) of this section the three $9,000 transactions are related transactions aggregating $27,000 if F knows, or has reason to know, that each transaction is one of a series of connected transactions.
(13)
Recipient.
(i) The term
recipient
means the person receiving the currency. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(13)(ii) of this section, each store, division, branch, department, headquarters, or office (“branch”) (regardless of physical location) comprising a portion of a person's trade or business shall for purposes of this section be deemed a separate recipient.
(ii) A branch that receives currency payments will not be deemed a separate recipient if the branch (or a central unit linking such branch with other branches) would in the ordinary course of business have reason to know the identity of payers making currency payments to other branches of such person.
(iii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of the rules in paragraphs (c)(13)(i) and (ii) of this section:

# Example 1.
N, an individual, purchases regulated futures contracts at a cost of $7,500 and $5,000, respectively, through two different branches of Commodities Broker X on the same day. N pays for each purchase with currency. Each branch of Commodities Broker X transmits the sales information regarding each of N's purchases to a central unit of Commodities Broker X (which settles the transactions against N's account). Under paragraph (c)(13)(ii) of this section the separate branches of Commodities Broker X are not deemed to be separate recipients; therefore, Commodities Broker X must report with respect to the two related regulated futures contracts sales in accordance with this section.

# Example 2.
P, a corporation, owns and operates a racetrack. P's racetrack contains 100 betting windows at which pari-mutuel wagers may be made. R, an individual, places currency wagers of $3,000 each at five separate betting windows. Assuming that in the ordinary course of business each betting window (or a central unit linking windows) does not have reason to know the identity of persons making wagers at other betting windows, each betting window would be deemed to be a separate currency recipient under paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section. As no individual recipient received currency in excess of $10,000, no report need be made by P under this section.
(d)
Exceptions to the reporting requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5331
—(1)
Receipt is made with respect to a foreign currency transaction
—(i)
In general.
Generally, there is no requirement to report with respect to a currency transaction if the entire transaction occurs outside the United States (the fifty states and the District of Columbia). An entire transaction consists of both the transaction as defined in paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section and the receipt of currency by the recipient. If, however, any part of an entire transaction occurs in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a possession or territory of the United States and the recipient of currency in that transaction is subject to the general jurisdiction of the Internal Revenue Service under title 26 of the United States Code, the recipient is required to report the transaction under this section.
(ii)
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section:

# Example.
W, an individual engaged in the trade or business of selling aircraft, reaches an agreement to sell an airplane to a U.S. citizen living in Mexico. The agreement, no portion of which is formulated in the United States, calls for a purchase price of $125,000 and requires delivery of and payment for the airplane to be made in Mexico. Upon delivery of the airplane in Mexico, W receives $125,000 in currency. W is not required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 or this section because the exception provided in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section (“foreign transaction exception”) applies. If, however, any part of the agreement to sell had been formulated in the United States, the foreign transaction exception would not apply and W would be required to report the receipt of currency under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
(2)
Receipt of currency not in the course of the recipient's trade or business.
The receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 by a person other than in the course of the person's trade or business is not reportable under 31 U.S.C. 5331. Thus, for example, F, an individual in the trade or business of selling real estate, sells a motorboat for $12,000, the purchase price of which is paid in currency. F did not use the motorboat in any trade or business in which F was engaged. F is not required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 or this section because the exception provided in this paragraph (d)(2) applies.
(e)
Time, manner, and form of reporting
—(1)
In general.
The reports required by paragraph (a) of this section must
be made by filing a Form 8300, as specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-1(e)(2). The reports must be filed at the time and in the manner specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-1(e)(1) and (3) respectively.
(2)
Verification.
A person making a report of information under this section must verify the identity of the person from whom the reportable currency is received. Verification of the identity of a person who purports to be an alien must be made by examination of such person's passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence. Verification of the identity of any other person may be made by examination of a document normally acceptable as a means of identification when cashing or accepting checks (for example, a driver's license or a credit card). In addition, a report will be considered incomplete if the person required to make a report knows (or has reason to know) that an agent is conducting the transaction for a principal, and the return does not identify both the principal and the agent.
(3)
Retention of reports.
A person required to make a report under this section must keep a copy of each report filed for five years from the date of filing.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 33637, June 7, 2012]
§ 1010.331
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received as bail by court clerks.
(a)
Reporting requirement
—(1)
In general.
Any clerk of a Federal or State court who receives more than $10,000 in currency as bail for any individual charged with a specified criminal offense must make a report of information with respect to that receipt of currency. For purposes of this section, a clerk is the clerk's office or the office, department, division, branch, or unit of the court that is authorized to receive bail. If someone other than a clerk receives bail on behalf of a clerk, the clerk is treated as receiving the bail for purposes of this paragraph (a).
(2)
Certain financial transactions.
Section 6050I of title 26 of the United States Code requires clerks to report information about financial transactions to the IRS, and 31 U.S.C. 5331 require clerks to report the same information to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. This information shall be reported on the same form as prescribed by the Secretary.
(b)
Meaning of terms.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—
(1) The term
currency
means—
(i) The coin and currency of the United States, or of any other country, that circulate in and are customarily used and accepted as money in the country in which issued; and
(ii) A cashier's check (by whatever name called, including treasurer's check and bank check), bank draft, traveler's check, or money order having a face amount of not more than $ 10,000.
(2) The term
specified criminal offense
means—
(i) A Federal criminal offense involving a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21 of the United States Code), provided the offense is described in Part D of Subchapter I or Subchapter II of title 21 of the United States Code;
(ii) Racketeering (as defined in section 1951, 1952, or 1955 of title 18 of the United States Code);
(iii) Money laundering (as defined in section 1956 or 1957 of title 18 of the United States Code); and
(iv) Any State criminal offense substantially similar to an offense described in this paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Time, form, and manner of reporting.
—(1)
In general.
The reports required by paragraph (a) of this section must be made by filing a Form 8300, as specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(2). The report must be filed at the time and in the manner specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(1) and (3), respectively.
(2)
Verification of identity.
A clerk required to make a report under this section must, in accordance with 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(3)(ii), verify the identity of each payor of bail listed in the report.
[77 FR 33637, June 7, 2012]
§ 1010.340
Reports of transportation of currency or monetary instruments.
(a) Each person who physically transports, mails, or ships, or causes to be physically transported, mailed, or
shipped, or attempts to physically transport, mail or ship, or attempts to cause to be physically transported, mailed or shipped, currency or other monetary instruments in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000 at one time from the United States to any place outside the United States, or into the United States from any place outside the United States, shall make a report thereof. A person is deemed to have caused such transportation, mailing or shipping when he aids, abets, counsels, commands, procures, or requests it to be done by a financial institution or any other person.
(b) Each person who receives in the U.S. currency or other monetary instruments in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000 at one time which have been transported, mailed, or shipped to such person from any place outside the United States with respect to which a report has not been filed under paragraph (a) of this section, whether or not required to be filed thereunder, shall make a report thereof, stating the amount, the date of receipt, the form of monetary instruments, and the person from whom received.
(c) This section shall not require reports by:
(1) A Federal Reserve;
(2) A bank, a foreign bank, or a broker or dealer in securities, in respect to currency or other monetary instruments mailed or shipped through the postal service or by common carrier;
(3) A commercial bank or trust company organized under the laws of any State or of the United States with respect to overland shipments of currency or monetary instruments shipped to or received from an established customer maintaining a deposit relationship with the bank, in amounts which the bank may reasonably conclude do not exceed amounts commensurate with the customary conduct of the business, industry or profession of the customer concerned;
(4) A person who is not a citizen or resident of the United States in respect to currency or other monetary instruments mailed or shipped from abroad to a bank or broker or dealer in securities through the postal service or by common carrier;
(5) A common carrier of passengers in respect to currency or other monetary instruments in the possession of its passengers;
(6) A common carrier of goods in respect to shipments of currency or monetary instruments not declared to be such by the shipper;
(7) A travelers' check issuer or its agent in respect to the transportation of travelers' checks prior to their delivery to selling agents for eventual sale to the public;
(8) By a person with respect to a restrictively endorsed traveler's check that is in the collection and reconciliation process after the traveler's check has been negotiated;
(9) Nor by a person engaged as a business in the transportation of currency, monetary instruments and other commercial papers with respect to the transportation of currency or other monetary instruments overland between established offices of banks or brokers or dealers in securities and foreign persons.
(d) A transfer of funds through normal banking procedures which does not involve the physical transportation of currency or monetary instruments is not required to be reported by this section. This section does not require that more than one report be filed covering a particular transportation, mailing or shipping of currency or other monetary instruments with respect to which a complete and truthful report has been filed by a person. However, no person required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section to file a report shall be excused from liability for failure to do so if, in fact, a complete and truthful report has not been filed.
§ 1010.350
Reports of foreign financial accounts.
(a)
In general.
Each United States person having a financial interest in, or signature or other authority over, a bank, securities, or other financial account in a foreign country shall report such relationship to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for each year in which such relationship exists and shall provide such information as shall be specified in a reporting form prescribed under 31 U.S.C. 5314 to be filed by such persons. The form prescribed
under section 5314 is the Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (TD-F 90-22.1), or any successor form.
See
paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section for a special rule for persons with a financial interest in 25 or more accounts, or signature or other authority over 25 or more accounts.
(b)
United States person.
For purposes of this section, the term “United States person” means—
(1) A citizen of the United States;
(2) A resident of the United States. A resident of the United States is an individual who is a resident alien under 26 U.S.C. 7701(b) and the regulations thereunder but using the definition of “United States” provided in 31 CFR 1010.100(hhh) rather than the definition of “United States” in 26 CFR 301.7701(b)-1(c)(2)(ii); and
(3) An entity, including but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, trust, or limited liability company created, organized, or formed under the laws of the United States, any State, the District of Columbia, the Territories and Insular Possessions of the United States, or the Indian Tribes.
(c)
Types of reportable accounts.
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Bank account.
The term “bank account” means a savings deposit, demand deposit, checking, or any other account maintained with a person engaged in the business of banking.
(2)
Securities account.
The term “securities account” means an account with a person engaged in the business of buying, selling, holding or trading stock or other securities.
(3)
Other financial account.
The term “other financial account” means—
(i) An account with a person that is in the business of accepting deposits as a financial agency;
(ii) An account that is an insurance or annuity policy with a cash value;
(iii) An account with a person that acts as a broker or dealer for futures or options transactions in any commodity on or subject to the rules of a commodity exchange or association; or
(iv) An account with—
(A)
Mutual fund or similar pooled fund.
A mutual fund or similar pooled fund which issues shares available to the general public that have a regular net asset value determination and regular redemptions; or
(B)
Other investment fund.
[Reserved]
(4)
Exceptions for certain accounts.
(i) An account of a department or agency of the United States, an Indian Tribe, or any State or any political subdivision of a State, or a wholly-owned entity, agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing is not required to be reported. In addition, reporting is not required with respect to an account of an entity established under the laws of the United States, of an Indian Tribe, of any State, or of any political subdivision of any State, or under an intergovernmental compact between two or more States or Indian Tribes, that exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, an Indian Tribe, or any such State or political subdivision. For this purpose, an entity generally exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, an Indian Tribe, a State, or a political subdivision only if its authorities include one or more of the powers to tax, to exercise the power of eminent domain, or to exercise police powers with respect to matters within its jurisdiction.
(ii) An account of an international financial institution of which the United States government is a member is not required to be reported.
(iii) An account in an institution known as a “United States military banking facility” (or “United States military finance facility”) operated by a United States financial institution designated by the United States Government to serve United States government installations abroad is not required to be reported even though the United States military banking facility is located in a foreign country.
(iv) Correspondent or nostro accounts that are maintained by banks and used solely for bank-to-bank settlements are not required to be reported.
(d)
Foreign country.
A foreign country includes all geographical areas located outside of the United States as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(hhh).
(e)
Financial interest.
A financial interest in a bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country means an interest described in this paragraph (e):
(1)
Owner of record or holder of legal title.
A United States person has a financial interest in each bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country for which he is the owner of record or has legal title whether the account is maintained for his own benefit or for the benefit of others. If an account is maintained in the name of more than one person, each United States person in whose name the account is maintained has a financial interest in that account.
(2)
Other financial interest.
A United States person has a financial interest in each bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country for which the owner of record or holder of legal title is—
(i) A person acting as an agent, nominee, attorney or in some other capacity on behalf of the United States person with respect to the account;
(ii) A corporation in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the voting power or the total value of the shares, a partnership in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the interest in profits or capital, or any other entity (other than an entity in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii) through (iv) of this section) in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the voting power, total value of the equity interest or assets, or interest in profits;
(iii) A trust, if the United States person is the trust grantor and has an ownership interest in the trust for United States Federal tax purposes.
See
26 U.S.C. 671-679 and the regulations thereunder to determine if a grantor has an ownership interest in the trust for the year; or
(iv) A trust in which the United States person either has a present beneficial interest in more than 50 percent of the assets or from which such person receives more than 50 percent of the current income.
(3)
Anti-avoidance rule.
A United States person that causes an entity, including but not limited to a corporation, partnership, or trust, to be created for a purpose of evading this section shall have a financial interest in any bank, securities, or other financial account in a foreign country for which the entity is the owner of record or holder of legal title.
(f)
Signature or other authority
—(1)
In general.
Signature or other authority means the authority of an individual (alone or in conjunction with another) to control the disposition of money, funds or other assets held in a financial account by direct communication (whether in writing or otherwise) to the person with whom the financial account is maintained.
(2)
Exceptions
—(i) An officer or employee of a bank that is examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the National Credit Union Administration need not report that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account owned or maintained by the bank if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account.
(ii) An officer or employee of a financial institution that is registered with and examined by the Securities and Exchange Commission or Commodity Futures Trading Commission need not report that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account owned or maintained by such financial institution if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account.
(iii) An officer or employee of an Authorized Service Provider need not report that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account owned or maintained by an investment company that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account. “Authorized Service Provider” means an entity that is registered with and examined by the Securities and Exchange Commission and that provides services to an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(iv) An officer or employee of an entity with a class of equity securities listed (or American depository receipts listed) on any United States national securities exchange need not report
that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account of such entity if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account. An officer or employee of a United States subsidiary of a United States entity with a class of equity securities listed on a United States national securities exchange need not file a report concerning signature or other authority over a foreign financial account of the subsidiary if he has no financial interest in the account and the United States subsidiary is included in a consolidated report of the parent filed under this section.
(v) An officer or employee of an entity that has a class of equity securities registered (or American depository receipts in respect of equity securities registered) under section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act need not report that he has signature or other authority over the foreign financial accounts of such entity or if he has no financial interest in the accounts.
(g)
Special rules
—(1)
Financial interest in 25 or more foreign financial accounts.
A United States person having a financial interest in 25 or more foreign financial accounts need only provide the number of financial accounts and certain other basic information on the report, but will be required to provide detailed information concerning each account when so requested by the Secretary or his delegate.
(2)
Signature or other authority over 25 or more foreign financial accounts.
A United States person having signature or other authority over 25 or more foreign financial accounts need only provide the number of financial accounts and certain other basic information on the report, but will be required to provide detailed information concerning each account when so requested by the Secretary or his delegate.
(3)
Consolidated reports.
An entity that is a United States person and which owns directly or indirectly more than a 50 percent interest in one or more other entities required to report under this section will be permitted to file a consolidated report on behalf of itself and such other entities.
(4)
Participants and beneficiaries in certain retirement plans.
Participants and beneficiaries in retirement plans under sections 401(a), 403(a) or 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code as well as owners and beneficiaries of individual retirement accounts under section 408 of the Internal Revenue Code or Roth IRAs under section 408A of the Internal Revenue Code are not required to file an FBAR with respect to a foreign financial account held by or on behalf of the retirement plan or IRA.
(5)
Certain trust beneficiaries.
A beneficiary of a trust described in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section is not required to report the trust's foreign financial accounts if the trust, trustee of the trust, or agent of the trust is a United States person that files a report under this section disclosing the trust's foreign financial accounts.
[76 FR 10245, Feb. 24, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 37000, June 24, 2011]
§ 1010.360
Reports of transactions with foreign financial agencies.
(a)
Promulgation of reporting requirements.
The Secretary, when he deems appropriate, may promulgate regulations requiring specified financial institutions to file reports of certain transactions with designated foreign financial agencies. If any such regulation is issued as a final rule without notice and opportunity for public comment, then a finding of good cause for dispensing with notice and comment in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553(b) will be included in the regulation. If any such regulation is not published in the
Federal Register,
then any financial institution subject to the regulation will be named and personally served or otherwise given actual notice in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553(b). If a financial institution is given notice of a reporting requirement under this section by means other than publication in the
Federal Register,
the Secretary may prohibit disclosure of the existence or provisions of that reporting requirement to the designated foreign financial agency or agencies and to any other party.
(b)
Information subject to reporting requirements.
A regulation promulgated pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall designate one or more of the following categories of information to be reported:
(1) Checks or drafts, including traveler's checks, received by respondent financial institution for collection or credit to the account of a foreign financial agency, sent by respondent financial institution to a foreign country for collection or payment, drawn by respondent financial institution on a foreign financial agency, drawn by a foreign financial agency on respondent financial institution—including the following information.
(i) Name of maker or drawer;
(ii) Name of drawee or drawee financial institution;
(iii) Name of payee;
(iv) Date and amount of instrument;
(v) Names of all endorsers.
(2) Transmittal orders received by a respondent financial institution from a foreign financial agency or sent by respondent financial institution to a foreign financial agency, including all information maintained by that institution pursuant to §§ 1010.410 and 1020.410.
(3) Loans made by respondent financial institution to or through a foreign financial agency—including the following information:
(i) Name of borrower;
(ii) Name of person acting for borrower;
(iii) Date and amount of loan;
(iv) Terms of repayment;
(v) Name of guarantor;
(vi) Rate of interest;
(vii) Method of disbursing proceeds;
(viii) Collateral for loan.
(4) Commercial paper received or shipped by the respondent financial institution—including the following information:
(i) Name of maker;
(ii) Date and amount of paper;
(iii) Due date;
(iv) Certificate number;
(v) Amount of transaction.
(5) Stocks received or shipped by respondent financial institution—including the following information:
(i) Name of corporation;
(ii) Type of stock;
(iii) Certificate number;
(iv) Number of shares;
(v) Date of certificate;
(vi) Name of registered holder;
(vii) Amount of transaction.
(6) Bonds received or shipped by respondent financial institution—including the following information:
(i) Name of issuer;
(ii) Bond number;
(iii) Type of bond series;
(iv) Date issued;
(v) Due date;
(vi) Rate of interest;
(vii) Amount of transaction;
(viii) Name of registered holder.
(7) Certificates of deposit received or shipped by respondent financial institution—including the following information:
(i) Name and address of issuer;
(ii) Date issued;
(iii) Dollar amount;
(iv) Name of registered holder;
(v) Due date;
(vi) Rate of interest;
(vii) Certificate number;
(viii) Name and address of issuing agent.
(c)
Scope of reports.
In issuing regulations as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will prescribe:
(1) A reasonable classification of financial institutions subject to or exempt from a reporting requirement;
(2) A foreign country to which a reporting requirement applies if the Secretary decides that applying the requirement to all foreign countries is unnecessary or undesirable;
(3) The magnitude of transactions subject to a reporting requirement; and
(4) The kind of transaction subject to or exempt from a reporting requirement.
(d)
Form of reports.
Regulations issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may prescribe the manner in which the information is to be reported. However, the Secretary may authorize a designated financial institution to report in a different manner if the institution demonstrates to the Secretary that the form of the required report is unnecessarily burdensome on the institution as prescribed; that a report in a different form will provide all the information the Secretary deems necessary; and that submission of the information in a different manner will not unduly hinder the effective administration of this chapter.
(e)
Limitations.
(1) In issuing regulations under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary shall consider the need to avoid impeding or controlling the export or import of monetary instruments and the need to avoid burdening unreasonably a person making a transaction with a foreign financial agency.
(2) The Secretary shall not issue a regulation under paragraph (a) of this section for the purpose of obtaining individually identifiable account information concerning a customer, as defined by the Right to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. 3401
et seq.
), where that customer is already the subject of an ongoing investigation for possible violation of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, or is known by the Secretary to be the subject of an investigation for possible violation of any other Federal law.
(3) The Secretary may issue a regulation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section requiring a financial institution to report transactions completed prior to the date it received notice of the reporting requirement. However, with respect to completed transactions, a financial institution may be required to provide information only from records required to be maintained pursuant to the requirements of this chapter, or any other provision of state or Federal law, or otherwise maintained in the regular course of business.
§ 1010.370
Reports of certain domestic transactions.
(a)(1) If the Secretary of the Treasury finds, upon the Secretary's own initiative or at the request of an appropriate Federal or State law enforcement official, that reasonable grounds exist for concluding that additional recordkeeping and/or reporting requirements are necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter or to prevent persons from evading the reporting/recordkeeping requirements of this chapter, the Secretary may issue an order requiring any domestic financial institution or group of domestic financial institutions, or any domestic nonfinancial trade or business or group of domestic nonfinancial trades or businesses, in a geographic area, and any other person participating in the type of transaction, to file a report in the manner and to the extent specified in such order. The order shall contain such information as the Secretary may describe concerning any transaction in which such financial institution or group of domestic financial institutions, or domestic nonfinancial trade or business or group of domestic nonfinancial trades or businesses is involved for the payment, receipt, or transfer of funds (as the Secretary may describe in such order) the total amounts or denominations of which are equal to or greater than an amount which the Secretary may prescribe.
(2) The Secretary may, by regulation or order, require any depository institution (as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)—
(i) To request any financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business (other than a depository institution) which engages in any reportable transaction with the depository institution to provide the depository institution with a copy of any report filed by the financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business under the Title 31 provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act with respect to any prior transaction (between such financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business and any other person) which involved any portion of the funds which are involved in the reportable transaction with the depository institution; and
(ii) If no copy of any report described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is received by the depository institution in connection with any reportable transaction to which paragraph (a)(2)(i) applies, to submit (in addition to any report required under this subchapter with respect to the reportable transaction) a written notice to the Secretary that the financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business failed to provide any copy of such report.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the term
reportable transaction
means any transaction involving funds (as the Secretary may describe in the regulation or order) the total amounts or denominations of which are equal to or greater than an amount which the Secretary may prescribe.
(b) An order issued under paragraph (a) of this section shall be directed to the Chief Executive Officer of the financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business and shall designate one or more of the following categories of information to be reported: Each deposit, withdrawal, exchange of funds or other payment or transfer, by, through or to such financial institution specified in the order, which involves all or any class of transactions in funds equal to or exceeding an amount specified in the order.
(c) In issuing an order under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will prescribe:
(1) The dollar amount of transactions subject to the reporting requirement in the order;
(2) The type of transaction or transactions subject to or exempt from a reporting requirement in the order;
(3) The appropriate form for reporting the transactions required in the order;
(4) The address to which reports required in the order are to be sent or from which they will be picked up;
(5) The starting and ending dates by which such transactions specified in the order are to be reported;
(6) The name of a Treasury official to be contacted for any additional information or questions;
(7) The amount of time the reports and records of reports generated in response to the order will have to be retained by the financial institution; and
(8) Any other information deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of the order.
(d)(1) No order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall prescribe a reporting period of more than 180 days unless renewed pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (a).
(2) Any revisions to an order issued under this section will not be effective until made in writing by the Secretary.
(3) Unless otherwise specified in the order, a bank receiving an order under this section may continue to use the exemptions granted under § 1020.315 of this chapter prior to the receipt of the order, but may not grant additional exemptions.
(4) For purposes of this section, the term
geographic area
means any area in one or more States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the territories and possessions of the United States, and/or political subdivision or subdivisions thereof, as specified in an order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) No financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business or officer, director, employee, or agent of a financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business subject to an order under this section may disclose the existence of, or terms of, the order to any person except as prescribed by the Secretary.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 62915, Nov. 15, 2021]
§ 1010.380
Reports of beneficial ownership information.
(a)
Reports required; timing of reports
—(1)
Initial report.
Each reporting company shall file an initial report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b) of this section as follows:
(i) Any entity that becomes a reporting company on or after March 26, 2025 shall file a report within 30 calendar days of the earlier of the date on which it receives actual notice that it has been registered to do business or the date on which a secretary of state or similar office first provides public notice, such as through a publicly accessible registry, that the reporting company has been registered to do business.
(ii) Any entity that became a reporting company before March 26, 2025 shall file a report no later than April 25, 2025.
(iii) Any entity that no longer meets the criteria for any exemption under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall file a report within 30 calendar days after the date that it no longer meets the criteria for any exemption.
(2)
Updated report.
(i) If there is any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN concerning a reporting company or its beneficial owners, including any change with respect to who is a
beneficial owner or information reported for any particular beneficial owner, the reporting company shall file an updated report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section within 30 calendar days after the date on which such change occurs.
(ii) If a reporting company meets the criteria for any exemption under paragraph (c)(2) of this section subsequent to the filing of an initial report, this change will be deemed a change with respect to information previously submitted to FinCEN, and the entity shall file an updated report.
(iii) If an individual is a beneficial owner of a reporting company by virtue of property interests or other rights subject to transfer upon death, and such individual dies, a change with respect to required information will be deemed to occur when the estate of the deceased beneficial owner is settled, either through the operation of the intestacy laws of a jurisdiction within the United States or through a testamentary deposition. The updated report shall, to the extent appropriate, identify any new beneficial owners.
(iv) If a reporting company has reported information with respect to a parent or legal guardian of a minor child pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (d)(3)(i) of this section, a change with respect to required information will be deemed to occur when the minor child attains the age of majority.
(v) With respect to an image of an identifying document required to be reported pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section, a change with respect to required information will be deemed to occur when the name, date of birth, address, or unique identifying number on such document changes.
(vi) Paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section shall only apply to reporting companies after March 26, 2025.
(3)(i)
Corrected report.
If any report under this section was inaccurate when filed and remains inaccurate, the reporting company shall file a corrected report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b) of this section within 30 calendar days after the date on which such reporting company becomes aware or has reason to know of the inaccuracy. A corrected report filed under this paragraph (a)(3) within this 30-day period shall be deemed to satisfy 31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(C)(i)(I)(bb) if filed within 90 calendar days after the date on which the inaccurate report was filed.
(ii) Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall only apply to reporting companies after March 26, 2025.
(b)
Content, form, and manner of reports.
Each report or application submitted under this section shall be filed with FinCEN in the form and manner that FinCEN shall prescribe in the forms and instructions for such report or application, and each person filing such report or application shall certify that the report or application is true, correct, and complete.
(1)
Initial report.
An initial report of a reporting company shall include the following information:
(i) For the reporting company:
(A) The full legal name of the reporting company;
(B) Any trade name or “doing business as” name of the reporting company;
(C) A complete current address consisting of:
(
1
) In the case of a reporting company with a principal place of business in the United States, the street address of such principal place of business; and
(
2
) In all other cases, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the reporting company conducts business;
(D) The foreign jurisdiction of formation of the reporting company;
(E) The State or Tribal jurisdiction where the reporting company first registers; and
(F) The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (including an Employer Identification Number (EIN)) of the reporting company, or where a reporting company has not been issued a TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
(ii) For every individual who is a beneficial owner of such reporting company, and every individual who is a company applicant with respect to such reporting company:
(A) The full legal name of the individual;
(B) The date of birth of the individual;
(C) A complete current address consisting of:
(
1
) In the case of a company applicant who forms or registers an entity in the course of such company applicant's business, the street address of such business; or
(
2
) In any other case, the individual's residential street address;
(D) A unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from one of the following documents:
(
1
) A non-expired passport issued to the individual by the United States government;
(
2
) A non-expired identification document issued to the individual by a State, local government, or Indian tribe for the purpose of identifying the individual;
(
3
) A non-expired driver's license issued to the individual by a State; or
(
4
) A non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual, if the individual does not possess any of the documents described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D)(
1
), (b)(1)(ii)(D)(
2
), or (b)(1)(ii)(D)(
3
) of this section; and
(E) An image of the document from which the unique identifying number in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D) of this section was obtained.
(2)
Special rules
—(i)
Reporting company owned by exempt entity.
If one or more exempt entities under paragraph (c)(2) of this section has or will have a direct or indirect ownership interest in a reporting company and an individual is a beneficial owner of the reporting company exclusively by virtue of the individual's ownership interest in such exempt entities, the report may include the names of the exempt entities in lieu of the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to such beneficial owner.
(ii)
Minor child.
If a reporting company reports the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to a parent or legal guardian of a minor child consistent with paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, then the report shall indicate that such information relates to a parent or legal guardian.
(iii)
Foreign pooled investment vehicle.
If an entity would be a reporting company but for paragraph (c)(2)(xviii) of this section, and is formed under the laws of a foreign country, such entity shall be deemed a reporting company for purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, except the report shall include the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section solely with respect to an individual who exercises substantial control over the entity if that individual is not a United States person. If more than one individual exercises substantial control over the entity and at least one of those individuals is not a United States person, the entity shall report information with respect to the individual who is not a United States person who has the greatest authority over the strategic management of the entity.
(iv)
Company applicant for existing companies.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, if a reporting company was created or registered before January 1, 2024, the reporting company shall report that fact, but is not required to report information with respect to any company applicant.
(3)
Contents of updated or corrected reports
—(i)
Updated reports—in general.
An updated report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall reflect any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN concerning a reporting company or its beneficial owners.
(ii)
Updated reports—newly exempt entities.
An updated report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall indicate that the filing entity is no longer a reporting company.
(iii)
Corrected reports.
A corrected report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall correct all inaccuracies in the information previously reported to FinCEN.
(4)
FinCEN identifier
—(i)
Application.
(A) An individual may obtain a FinCEN identifier by submitting to FinCEN an application containing the information about the individual described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(B) A reporting company may obtain a FinCEN identifier by submitting to FinCEN an application at or after the
time that the entity submits an initial report required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(C) Each FinCEN identifier shall be specific to each such individual or reporting company, and each such individual or reporting company (including any successor reporting company) may obtain only one FinCEN identifier.
(ii)
Use of the FinCEN identifier.
(A) If an individual has obtained a FinCEN identifier and provided such FinCEN identifier to a reporting company, the reporting company may include such FinCEN identifier in its report in lieu of the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to such individual.
(B) A reporting company may report another entity's FinCEN identifier and full legal name in lieu of the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section with respect to the beneficial owners of the reporting company only if:
(
1
) The other entity has obtained a FinCEN identifier and provided that FinCEN identifier to the reporting company;
(
2
) An individual is or may be a beneficial owner of the reporting company by virtue of an interest in the reporting company that the individual holds through an ownership interest in the other entity; and
(
3
) The beneficial owners of the other entity and of the reporting company are the same individuals.
(iii)
Updates and corrections.
(A) Any individual that has obtained a FinCEN identifier shall update or correct any information previously submitted to FinCEN in an application for such FinCEN identifier.
(
1
) If there is any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN in such application, the individual shall file an updated application reflecting such change within 30 calendar days after the date on which such change occurs.
(
2
) If any such application was inaccurate when filed and remains inaccurate, the individual shall file a corrected application correcting all inaccuracies within 30 calendar days after the date on which the individual becomes aware or has reason to know of the inaccuracy. A corrected application filed under this paragraph within this 30-day period will be deemed to satisfy 31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(C)(i)(I)(bb) if filed within 90 calendar days after the date on which the inaccurate application was submitted.
(B) Any reporting company that has obtained a FinCEN identifier shall file an updated or corrected report to update or correct any information previously submitted to FinCEN. Such updated or corrected report shall be filed at the same time and in the same manner as updated or corrected reports filed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Reporting company
—(1)
Definition of reporting company.
For purposes of this section, the term “reporting company” means:
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Any entity that is:
(A) A corporation, limited liability company, or other entity;
(B) Formed under the law of a foreign country; and
(C) Registered to do business in any State or tribal jurisdiction by the filing of a document with a secretary of state or any similar office under the law of that State or Indian tribe.
(2)
Exemptions.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the term “reporting company” does not include:
(i)
Securities reporting issuer.
Any issuer of securities that is:
(A) An issuer of a class of securities registered under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78l); or
(B) Required to file supplementary and periodic information under section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)).
(ii)
Governmental authority.
Any entity that:
(A) Is established under the laws of the United States, an Indian tribe, a State, or a political subdivision of a State, or under an interstate compact between two or more States; and
(B) Exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States or any such Indian tribe, State, or political subdivision.
(iii)
Bank.
Any bank, as defined in:
(A) Section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813);
(B) Section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)); or
(C) Section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)).
(iv)
Credit union.
Any Federal credit union or State credit union, as those terms are defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).
(v)
Depository institution holding company.
Any bank holding company as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), or any savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)).
(vi)
Money services business.
Any money transmitting business registered with FinCEN under 31 U.S.C. 5330, and any money services business registered with FinCEN under 31 CFR 1022.380.
(vii)
Broker or dealer in securities.
Any broker or dealer, as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), that is registered under section 15 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78o).
(viii)
Securities exchange or clearing agency.
Any exchange or clearing agency, as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), that is registered under sections 6 or 17A of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78f, 78q-1).
(ix)
Other Exchange Act registered entity.
Any other entity not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i), (vii), or (viii) of this section that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
(x)
Investment company or investment adviser.
Any entity that is:
(A) An investment company as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), or is an investment adviser as defined in section 202 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2); and
(B) Registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
).
(xi)
Venture capital fund adviser.
Any investment adviser that:
(A) Is described in section 203(l) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(l)); and
(B) Has filed Item 10, Schedule A, and Schedule B of Part 1A of Form ADV, or any successor thereto, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(xii)
Insurance company.
Any insurance company as defined in section 2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2).
(xiii)
State-licensed insurance producer.
Any entity that:
(A) Is an insurance producer that is authorized by a State and subject to supervision by the insurance commissioner or a similar official or agency of a State; and
(B) Has an operating presence at a physical office within the United States.
(xiv)
Commodity Exchange Act registered entity.
Any entity that:
(A) Is a registered entity as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a); or
(B) Is:
(
1
) A futures commission merchant, introducing broker, swap dealer, major swap participant, commodity pool operator, or commodity trading advisor, each as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), or a retail foreign exchange dealer as described in section 2(c)(2)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B); and
(
2
) Registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act.
(xv)
Accounting firm.
Any public accounting firm registered in accordance with section 102 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7212).
(xvi)
Public utility.
Any entity that is a regulated public utility as defined in 26 U.S.C. 7701(a)(33)(A) or (D) that provides telecommunications services, electrical power, natural gas, or water and sewer services within the United States.
(xvii)
Financial market utility.
Any financial market utility designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council under section 804 of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5463).
(xviii)
Pooled investment vehicle.
Any pooled investment vehicle that is operated or advised by a person described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii), (iv), (vii), (x), or (xi) of this section.
(xix)
Tax-exempt entity.
Any entity that is:
(A) An organization that is described in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Code) (determined without regard to section 508(a) of the Code) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of the Code, except that in the case of any such organization that ceases to be described in section 501(c) and exempt from tax under section 501(a), such organization shall be considered to continue to be described in this paragraph (c)(1)(xix)(A) for the 180-day period beginning on the date of the loss of such tax-exempt status;
(B) A political organization, as defined in section 527(e)(1) of the Code, that is exempt from tax under section 527(a) of the Code; or
(C) A trust described in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 4947(a) of the Code.
(xx)
Entity assisting a tax-exempt entity.
Any entity that:
(A) Operates exclusively to provide financial assistance to, or hold governance rights over, any entity described in paragraph (c)(2)(xix) of this section;
(B) Is a United States person;
(C) Is beneficially owned or controlled exclusively by one or more United States persons that are United States citizens or lawfully admitted for permanent residence; and
(D) Derives at least a majority of its funding or revenue from one or more United States persons that are United States citizens or lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(xxi)
Large operating company.
Any entity that:
(A) Employs more than 20 full time employees in the United States, with “full time employee in the United States” having the meaning provided in 26 CFR 54.4980H-1(a) and 54.4980H-3, except that the term “United States” as used in 26 CFR 54.4980H-1(a) and 54.4980H-3 has the meaning provided in § 1010.100(hhh);
(B) Has an operating presence at a physical office within the United States; and
(C) Filed a Federal income tax or information return in the United States for the previous year demonstrating more than $5,000,000 in gross receipts or sales, as reported as gross receipts or sales (net of returns and allowances) on the entity's IRS Form 1120, consolidated IRS Form 1120, IRS Form 1120-S, IRS Form 1065, or other applicable IRS form, excluding gross receipts or sales from sources outside the United States, as determined under Federal income tax principles. For an entity that is part of an affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 1504 that filed a consolidated return, the applicable amount shall be the amount reported on the consolidated return for such group.
(xxii)
Subsidiary of certain exempt entities.
Any entity whose ownership interests are controlled or wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more entities described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vii), (viii), (ix), (x), (xi), (xii), (xiii), (xiv), (xv), (xvi), (xvii), (xix), or (xxi) of this section.
(xxiii)
Inactive entity.
Any entity that:
(A) Was in existence on or before January 1, 2020;
(B) Is not engaged in active business;
(C) Is not owned by a foreign person, whether directly or indirectly, wholly or partially;
(D) Has not experienced any change in ownership in the preceding twelve month period;
(E) Has not sent or received any funds in an amount greater than $1,000, either directly or through any financial account in which the entity or any affiliate of the entity had an interest, in the preceding twelve month period; and
(F) Does not otherwise hold any kind or type of assets, whether in the United States or abroad, including any ownership interest in any corporation, limited liability company, or other similar entity.
(xxiv)
Domestic entity.
Any entity that is:
(A) A corporation, limited liability company, or other entity; and
(B) Created by the filing of a document with a secretary of state or any similar office under the law of a State or Indian tribe.
(d)
Beneficial owner.
For purposes of this section, the term “beneficial owner,” with respect to a reporting company, means any individual who, directly or indirectly, either exercises substantial control over such reporting company or owns or controls at least 25 percent of the ownership interests of such reporting company.
(1)
Substantial control
—(i)
Definition of substantial control.
An individual exercises substantial control over a reporting company if the individual:
(A) Serves as a senior officer of the reporting company;
(B) Has authority over the appointment or removal of any senior officer or a majority of the board of directors (or similar body);
(C) Directs, determines, or has substantial influence over important decisions made by the reporting company, including decisions regarding:
(
1
) The nature, scope, and attributes of the business of the reporting company, including the sale, lease, mortgage, or other transfer of any principal assets of the reporting company;
(
2
The reorganization, dissolution, or merger of the reporting company;
(
3
) Major expenditures or investments, issuances of any equity, incurrence of any significant debt, or approval of the operating budget of the reporting company;
(
4
) The selection or termination of business lines or ventures, or geographic focus, of the reporting company;
(
5
) Compensation schemes and incentive programs for senior officers;
(
6
) The entry into or termination, or the fulfillment or non-fulfillment, of significant contracts;
(
7
) Amendments of any substantial governance documents of the reporting company, including the articles of incorporation or similar formation documents, bylaws, and significant policies or procedures; or
(D) Has any other form of substantial control over the reporting company.
(ii)
Direct or indirect exercise of substantial control.
An individual may directly or indirectly, including as a trustee of a trust or similar arrangement, exercise substantial control over a reporting company through:
(A) Board representation;
(B) Ownership or control of a majority of the voting power or voting rights of the reporting company;
(C) Rights associated with any financing arrangement or interest in a company;
(D) Control over one or more intermediary entities that separately or collectively exercise substantial control over a reporting company;
(E) Arrangements or financial or business relationships, whether formal or informal, with other individuals or entities acting as nominees; or
(F) any other contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or otherwise.
(2)
Ownership Interests
—(i)
Definition of ownership interest.
The term “ownership interest” means:
(A) Any equity, stock, or similar instrument; preorganization certificate or subscription; or transferable share of, or voting trust certificate or certificate of deposit for, an equity security, interest in a joint venture, or certificate of interest in a business trust; in each such case, without regard to whether any such instrument is transferable, is classified as stock or anything similar, or confers voting power or voting rights;
(B) Any capital or profit interest in an entity;
(C) Any instrument convertible, with or without consideration, into any share or instrument described in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A), or (B) of this section, any future on any such instrument, or any warrant or right to purchase, sell, or subscribe to a share or interest described in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A), or (B) of this section, regardless of whether characterized as debt;
(D) Any put, call, straddle, or other option or privilege of buying or selling any of the items described in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section without being bound to do so, except to the extent that such option or privilege is created and held by a third party or third parties without the knowledge or involvement of the reporting company; or
(E) Any other instrument, contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or mechanism used to establish ownership.
(ii)
Ownership or control of ownership interest.
An individual may directly or indirectly own or control an ownership interest of a reporting company through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or otherwise, including:
(A) Joint ownership with one or more other persons of an undivided interest in such ownership interest;
(B) Through another individual acting as a nominee, intermediary, custodian, or agent on behalf of such individual;
(C) With regard to a trust or similar arrangement that holds such ownership interest:
(
1
) As a trustee of the trust or other individual (if any) with the authority to dispose of trust assets;
(
2
) As a beneficiary who:
(
i
) Is the sole permissible recipient of income and principal from the trust; or
(
ii
) Has the right to demand a distribution of or withdraw substantially all of the assets from the trust; or
(
3
) As a grantor or settlor who has the right to revoke the trust or otherwise withdraw the assets of the trust; or
(D) Through ownership or control of one or more intermediary entities, or ownership or control of the ownership interests of any such entities, that separately or collectively own or control ownership interests of the reporting company.
(iii)
Calculation of the total ownership interests of a reporting company.
In determining whether an individual owns or controls at least 25 percent of the ownership interests of a reporting company, the total ownership interests that an individual owns or controls, directly or indirectly, shall be calculated as a percentage of the total outstanding ownership interests of the reporting company as follows:
(A) Ownership interests of the individual shall be calculated at the present time, and any options or similar interests of the individual shall be treated as exercised;
(B) For reporting companies that issue capital or profit interests (including entities treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes), the individual's ownership interests are the individual's capital and profit interests in the entity, calculated as a percentage of the total outstanding capital and profit interests of the entity;
(C) For corporations, entities treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes, and other reporting companies that issue shares of stock, the applicable percentage shall be the greater of:
(
1
) the total combined voting power of all classes of ownership interests of the individual as a percentage of total outstanding voting power of all classes of ownership interests entitled to vote, or
(
2
) the total combined value of the ownership interests of the individual as a percentage of the total outstanding value of all classes of ownership interests; and
(D) If the facts and circumstances do not permit the calculations described in either paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) or (C) to be performed with reasonable certainty, any individual who owns or controls 25 percent or more of any class or type of ownership interest of a reporting company shall be deemed to own or control 25 percent or more of the ownership interests of the reporting company.
(3)
Exceptions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (d), the term “beneficial owner” does not include:
(i) A minor child, as defined under the law of the State or Indian tribe in which a reporting company is first registered, provided the reporting company reports the required information of a parent or legal guardian of the minor child as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii) An individual acting as a nominee, intermediary, custodian, or agent on behalf of another individual;
(iii) An employee of a reporting company, acting solely as an employee, whose substantial control over or economic benefits from such entity are derived solely from the employment status of the employee, provided that such person is not a senior officer as defined in paragraph (f)(8) of this section;
(iv) An individual whose only interest in a reporting company is a future interest through a right of inheritance;
(v) A creditor of a reporting company. For purposes of this paragraph
(d)(3)(v), a creditor is an individual who meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section solely through rights or interests for the payment of a predetermined sum of money, such as a debt incurred by the reporting company, or a loan covenant or other similar right associated with such right to receive payment that is intended to secure the right to receive payment or enhance the likelihood of repayment.
(4)
Exemptions.
(i) Reporting companies are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5336 and this section to report the beneficial ownership information of any United States persons who are beneficial owners.
(ii) United States persons are exempt from the requirements in 31 U.S.C. 5336 and this section to provide beneficial ownership information with respect to any reporting company for which they are a beneficial owner.
(e)
Company applicant.
For purposes of this section, the term “company applicant” means:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) The individual who directly files the document that first registers the reporting company as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(3) The individual who is primarily responsible for directing or controlling such filing if more than one individual is involved in the filing of the document.
(f)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
(1)
Employee.
The term “employee” has the meaning given the term in 26 CFR 54.4980H-1(a)(15).
(2)
FinCEN identifier.
The term “FinCEN identifier” means the unique identifying number assigned by FinCEN to an individual or reporting company under this section.
(3)
Foreign person.
The term “foreign person” means a person who is not a United States person.
(4)
Indian tribe.
The term “Indian tribe” has the meaning given the term “Indian tribe” in section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5130).
(5)
Lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
The term “lawfully admitted for permanent residence” has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).
(6)
Operating presence at a physical office within the United States.
The term “has an operating presence at a physical office within the United States” means that an entity regularly conducts its business at a physical location in the United States that the entity owns or leases and that is physically distinct from the place of business of any other unaffiliated entity.
(7)
Pooled investment vehicle.
The term “pooled investment vehicle” means:
(i) Any investment company, as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)); or
(ii) Any company that:
(A) Would be an investment company under that section but for the exclusion provided from that definition by paragraph (1) or (7) of section 3(c) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)); and
(B) Is identified by its legal name by the applicable investment adviser in its Form ADV (or successor form) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or will be so identified in the next annual updating amendment to Form ADV required to be filed by the applicable investment adviser pursuant to rule 204-1 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (17 CFR 275.204-1).
(8)
Senior officer.
The term “senior officer” means any individual holding the position or exercising the authority of a president, chief financial officer, general counsel, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, or any other officer, regardless of official title, who performs a similar function.
(9)
State.
The term “State” means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
(10)
United States person.
The term “United States person” has the meaning given the term in section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(g)
Reporting violations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully provide, or attempt to provide, false or
fraudulent beneficial ownership information, including a false or fraudulent identifying photograph or document, to FinCEN in accordance with this section, or to willfully fail to report complete or updated beneficial ownership information to FinCEN in accordance with this section. For purposes of this paragraph (g):
(1) The term “person” includes any individual, reporting company, or other entity.
(2) The term “beneficial ownership information” includes any information provided to FinCEN under this section.
(3) A person provides or attempts to provide beneficial ownership information to FinCEN if such person does so directly or indirectly, including by providing such information to another person for purposes of a report or application under this section.
(4) A person fails to report complete or updated beneficial ownership information to FinCEN if, with respect to an entity:
(i) such entity is required, pursuant to title 31, United States Code, section 5336, or its implementing regulations, to report information to FinCEN;
(ii) the reporting company fails to report such information to FinCEN; and
(iii) such person either causes the failure, or is a senior officer of the entity at the time of the failure.
[87 FR 59591, Sept. 30, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 76997, Nov. 8, 2023; 88 FR 83504, Nov. 30, 2023; 89 FR 83783, Oct. 18, 2024; 90 FR 13697, Mar. 26, 2025]

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained
§ 1010.400
General.
Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its chapter X part for any additional recordkeeping requirements. Unless otherwise indicated, the recordkeeping requirements contained in this subpart D apply to all financial institutions.
§ 1010.401
Determination by the Secretary.
The Secretary hereby determines that the records required to be kept by this chapter have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory investigations or proceedings.
§ 1010.405
[Reserved]
§ 1010.410
Records to be made and retained by financial institutions.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024.
Each financial institution shall retain either the original or a copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(a) A record of each extension of credit in an amount in excess of $10,000, except an extension of credit secured by an interest in real property, which record shall contain the name and address of the person to whom the extension of credit is made, the amount thereof, the nature or purpose thereof, and the date thereof;
(b) A record of each advice, request, or instruction received or given regarding any transaction resulting (or intended to result and later canceled if such a record is normally made) in the transfer of currency or other monetary instruments, funds, checks, investment securities, or credit, of more than $10,000 to or from any person, account, or place outside the United States.
(c) A record of each advice, request, or instruction given to another financial institution or other person located within or without the United States, regarding a transaction intended to result in the transfer of funds, or of currency, other monetary instruments, checks, investment securities, or credit, of more than $10,000 to a person, account or place outside the United States.
(d) A record of such information for such period of time as the Secretary may require in an order issued under § 1010.370(a), not to exceed five years.
(e)
Nonbank financial institutions.
Each agent, agency, branch, or office located within the United States of a financial institution other than a bank is subject to the requirements of this paragraph (e) with respect to a transmittal of funds in the amount of $3,000 or more:
(1)
Recordkeeping requirements.
(i) For each transmittal order that it accepts as a transmittor's financial institution, a financial institution shall obtain and retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic
record of the following information relating to the transmittal order:
(A) The name and address of the transmittor;
(B) The amount of the transmittal order;
(C) The execution date of the transmittal order;
(D) Any payment instructions received from the transmittor with the transmittal order;
(E) The identity of the recipient's financial institution;
(F) As many of the following items as are received with the transmittal order:
1
1
For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a domestic broker or dealers in securities, only one of the items is required to be retained, if received with the transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(
1
) The name and address of the recipient;
(
2
) The account number of the recipient; and
(
3
) Any other specific identifier of the recipient; and
(G) Any form relating to the transmittal of funds that is completed or signed by the person placing the transmittal order.
(ii) For each transmittal order that it accepts as an intermediary financial institution, a financial institution shall retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the transmittal order.
(iii) For each transmittal order that it accepts as a recipient's financial institution, a financial institution shall retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the transmittal order.
(2)
Transmittors other than established customers.
In the case of a transmittal order from a transmittor that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section:
(i) If the transmittal order is made in person, prior to acceptance the transmittor's financial institution shall verify the identity of the person placing the transmittal order. If it accepts the transmittal order, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address, the type of identification reviewed, and the number of the identification document (
e.g.,
driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the transmittor's financial institution has knowledge that the person placing the transmittal order is not the transmittor, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the transmittor's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(ii) If the transmittal order accepted by the transmittor's financial institution is not made in person, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address of the person placing the transmittal order, as well as the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof, and a copy or record of the method of payment (
e.g.,
check or credit card transaction) for the transmittal of funds. If the transmittor's financial institution has knowledge that the person placing the transmittal order is not the transmittor, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the transmittor's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(3)
Recipients other than established customers.
For each transmittal order that it accepts as a recipient's financial institution for a recipient that is
not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section:
(i) If the proceeds are delivered in person to the recipient or its representative or agent, the recipient's financial institution shall verify the identity of the person receiving the proceeds and shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address, the type of identification reviewed, and the number of the identification document (
e.g.,
driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the recipient's financial institution has knowledge that the person receiving the proceeds is not the recipient, the recipient's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the recipient's name and address, as well as the recipient's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person receiving the proceeds, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(ii) If the proceeds are delivered other than in person, the recipient's financial institution shall retain a copy of the check or other instrument used to effect payment, or the information contained thereon, as well as the name and address of the person to which it was sent.
(4)
Retrievability.
The information that a transmittor's financial institution must retain under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(2) of this section shall be retrievable by the transmittor's financial institution by reference to the name of the transmittor. If the transmittor is an established customer of the transmittor's financial institution and has an account used for transmittals of funds, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. The information that a recipient's financial institution must retain under paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) and (e)(3) of this section shall be retrievable by the recipient's financial institution by reference to the name of the recipient. If the recipient is an established customer of the recipient's financial institution and has an account used for transmittals of funds, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. This information need not be retained in any particular manner, so long as the financial institution is able to retrieve the information required by this paragraph, either by accessing transmittal of funds records directly or through reference to some other record maintained by the financial institution.
(5)
Verification.
Where verification is required under paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section, a financial institution shall verify a person's identity by examination of a document (other than a customer signature card), preferably one that contains the person's name, address, and photograph, that is normally acceptable by financial institutions as a means of identification when cashing checks for persons other than established customers. Verification of the identity of an individual who indicates that he or she is an alien or is not a resident of the United States may be made by passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence (
e.g.,
a foreign driver's license with indication of home address).
(6)
Exceptions.
The following transmittals of funds are not subject to the requirements of this section:
(i) Transmittals of funds where the transmittor and the recipient are any of the following:
(A) A bank;
(B) A wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of a bank chartered in the United States;
(C) A broker or dealer in securities;
(D) A wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of a broker or dealer in securities;
(E) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker in commodities;
(F) A wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker in commodities;
(G) The United States;
(H) A state or local government; or
(I) A Federal, State or local government agency or instrumentality; or
(J) A mutual fund; and
(ii) Transmittals of funds where both the transmittor and the recipient are the same person and the transmittor's financial institution and the recipient's financial institution are the same broker or dealer in securities.
(f) Any transmittor's financial institution or intermediary financial institution located within the United States shall include in any transmittal order for a transmittal of funds in the amount of $3,000 or more, information as required in this paragraph (f):
(1) A transmittor's financial institution shall include in a transmittal order, at the time it is sent to a receiving financial institution, the following information:
(i) The name and, if the payment is ordered from an account, the account number of the transmittor;
(ii) The address of the transmittor, except for a transmittal order through Fedwire until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire format;
(iii) The amount of the transmittal order;
(iv) The execution date of the transmittal order;
(v) The identity of the recipient's financial institution;
(vi) As many of the following items as are received with the transmittal order:
2
2
For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a financial institution, only one of the items is required to be included in the transmittal order, if received with the sender's transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(A) The name and address of the recipient;
(B) The account number of the recipient;
(C) Any other specific identifier of the recipient; and
(vii) Either the name and address or numerical identifier of the transmittor's financial institution.
(2) A receiving financial institution that acts as an intermediary financial institution, if it accepts a transmittal order, shall include in a corresponding transmittal order at the time it is sent to the next receiving financial institution, the following information, if received from the sender:
(i) The name and the account number of the transmittor;
(ii) The address of the transmittor, except for a transmittal order through Fedwire until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire format;
(iii) The amount of the transmittal order;
(iv) The execution date of the transmittal order;
(v) The identity of the recipient's financial institution;
(vi) As many of the following items as are received with the transmittal order:
3
3
For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a financial institution, only one of the items is required to be included in the transmittal order, if received with the sender's transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(A) The name and address of the recipient;
(B) The account number of the recipient;
(C) Any other specific identifier of the recipient; and
(vii) Either the name and address or numerical identifier of the transmittor's financial institution.
(3)
Safe harbor for transmittals of funds prior to conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
The following provisions apply to transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system or otherwise by a financial institution before the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(i)
Transmittor's financial institution.
A transmittor's financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the
provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section if it:
(A) Includes in the transmittal order, at the time it is sent to the receiving financial institution, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(iii) through (v), and the information specified in paragraph (f)(1)(vi) of this section to the extent that such information has been received by the financial institution, and
(B) Provides the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i), (ii) and (vii) of this section to a financial institution that acted as an intermediary financial institution or recipient's financial institution in connection with the transmittal order, within a reasonable time after any such financial institution makes a request therefor in connection with the requesting financial institution's receipt of a lawful request for such information from a Federal, State, or local law enforcement or financial regulatory agency, or in connection with the requesting financial institution's own Bank Secrecy Act compliance program.
(ii)
Intermediary financial institution.
An intermediary financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(2) of this section if it:
(A) Includes in the transmittal order, at the time it is sent to the receiving financial institution, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(iii) through (f)(2)(vi) of this section, to the extent that such information has been received by the intermediary financial institution; and
(B) Provides the information specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i), (ii) and (vii) of this section, to the extent that such information has been received by the intermediary financial institution, to a financial institution that acted as an intermediary financial institution or recipient's financial institution in connection with the transmittal order, within a reasonable time after any such financial institution makes a request therefor in connection with the requesting financial institution's receipt of a lawful request for such information from a Federal, State, or local law enforcement or regulatory agency, or in connection with the requesting financial institution's own Bank Secrecy Act compliance program.
(iii)
Obligation of requesting financial institution.
Any information requested under paragraph (f)(3)(i)(B) or (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall be treated by the requesting institution, once received, as if it had been included in the transmittal order to which such information relates.
(4)
Exceptions.
The requirements of this paragraph (f) shall not apply to transmittals of funds that are listed in paragraph (e)(6) of this section or § 1020.410(a)(6) of this chapter.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024, § 1010.410 was amended, effective Jan. 1, 2026.
§ 1010.415
Purchases of bank checks and drafts, cashier's checks, money orders and traveler's checks.
(a) No financial institution may issue or sell a bank check or draft, cashier's check, money order or traveler's check for $3,000 or more in currency unless it maintains records of the following information, which must be obtained for each issuance or sale of one or more of these instruments to any individual purchaser which involves currency in amounts of $3,000-$10,000 inclusive:
(1) If the purchaser has a deposit account with the financial institution:
(i)(A) The name of the purchaser;
(B) The date of purchase;
(C) The type(s) of instrument(s) purchased;
(D) The serial number(s) of each of the instrument(s) purchased; and
(E) The amount in dollars of each of the instrument(s) purchased.
(ii) In addition, the financial institution must verify that the individual is a deposit accountholder or must verify the individual's identity. Verification may be either through a signature card or other file or record at the financial institution provided the deposit accountholder's name and address were verified previously and that information was recorded on the signature card or other file or record; or by examination of a document which is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors and
which contains the name and address of the purchaser. If the deposit accountholder's identity has not been verified previously, the financial institution shall verify the deposit accountholder's identity by examination of a document which is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors and which contains the name and address of the purchaser, and shall record the specific identifying information (
e.g.,
State of issuance and number of driver's license).
(2) If the purchaser does not have a deposit account with the financial institution:
(i)(A) The name and address of the purchaser;
(B) The social security number of the purchaser, or if the purchaser is an alien and does not have a social security number, the alien identification number;
(C) The date of birth of the purchaser;
(D) The date of purchase;
(E) The type(s) of instrument(s) purchased;
(F) The serial number(s) of the instrument(s) purchased; and
(G) The amount in dollars of each of the instrument(s) purchased.
(ii) In addition, the financial institution shall verify the purchaser's name and address by examination of a document which is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors and which contains the name and address of the purchaser, and shall record the specific identifying information (
e.g.,
State of issuance and number of driver's license).
(b) Contemporaneous purchases of the same or different types of instruments totaling $3,000 or more shall be treated as one purchase. Multiple purchases during one business day totaling $3,000 or more shall be treated as one purchase if an individual employee, director, officer, or partner of the financial institution has knowledge that these purchases have occurred.
(c) Records required to be kept shall be retained by the financial institution for a period of five years and shall be made available to the Secretary upon request at any time.
§ 1010.420
Records to be made and retained by persons having financial interests in foreign financial accounts.
Records of accounts required by § 1010.350 to be reported to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall be retained by each person having a financial interest in or signature or other authority over any such account. Such records shall contain the name in which each such account is maintained, the number or other designation of such account, the name and address of the foreign bank or other person with whom such account is maintained, the type of such account, and the maximum value of each such account during the reporting period. Such records shall be retained for a period of 5 years and shall be kept at all times available for inspection as authorized by law. In the computation of the period of 5 years, there shall be disregarded any period beginning with a date on which the taxpayer is indicted or information instituted on account of the filing of a false or fraudulent Federal income tax return or failing to file a Federal income tax return, and ending with the date on which final disposition is made of the criminal proceeding.
§ 1010.430
Nature of records and retention period.
(a) Wherever it is required that there be retained either the original or a copy or reproduction of a check, draft, monetary instrument, investment security, or other similar instrument, there shall be retained a copy of both front and back of each such instrument or document, except that no copy need be retained of the back of any instrument or document which is entirely blank or which contains only standardized printed information, a copy of which is on file.
(b) Records required by this chapter to be retained by financial institutions may be those made in the ordinary course of business by a financial institution. If no record is made in the ordinary course of business of any transaction with respect to which records
are required to be retained by this chapter, then such a record shall be prepared in writing by the financial institution.
(c) The rules and regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service under 26 U.S.C. 6109 determine what constitutes a taxpayer identification number and whose number shall be obtained in the case of an account maintained by one or more persons.
(d) All records that are required to be retained by this chapter shall be retained for a period of five years. Records or reports required to be kept pursuant to an order issued under § 1010.370 of this chapter shall be retained for the period of time specified in such order, not to exceed five years. All such records shall be filed or stored in such a way as to be accessible within a reasonable period of time, taking into consideration the nature of the record, and the amount of time expired since the record was made.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]
§ 1010.440
Person outside the United States.
For the purposes of this chapter, a remittance or transfer of funds, or of currency, other monetary instruments, checks, investment securities, or credit to the domestic account of a person whose address is known by the person making the remittance or transfer, to be outside the United States, shall be deemed to be a remittance or transfer to a person outside the United States, except that, unless otherwise directed by the Secretary, this section shall not apply to a transaction on the books of a domestic financial institution involving the account of a customer of such institution whose address is within approximately 50 miles of the location of the institution, or who is known to be temporarily outside the United States.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1010.500
General.
Sections 1010.505 through 1010.540 of this subpart E were issued pursuant to the requirements of section 314 of the USA PATRIOT Act. Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its chapter X part for any additional special information sharing procedures.
§ 1010.505
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart E, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Account
means a formal banking or business relationship established to provide regular services, dealings, and other financial transactions, and includes, but is not limited to, a demand deposit, savings deposit, or other transaction or asset account and a credit account or other extension of credit.
(b)
Money laundering
means an activity criminalized by 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957, or an activity that would be criminalized by 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957 if it occurred in the United States.
(c)
Terrorist activity
means an act of domestic terrorism or international terrorism as those terms are defined in 18 U.S.C. 2331.
(d)
Transaction.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the term “transaction” shall have the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100(bbb).
(2) For purposes of § 1010.520, a transaction shall not mean any transaction conducted through an account.
§ 1010.520
Information sharing between government agencies and financial institutions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Financial institution
means any financial institution described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2).
(2)
Law enforcement agency
means a Federal, State, local, or foreign law enforcement agency with criminal investigative authority, provided that in the case of a foreign law enforcement agency, such agency is from a jurisdiction that is a party to a treaty that provides, or in the determination of FinCEN is from a jurisdiction that otherwise allows, law enforcement agencies in the United States reciprocal access to information comparable to that obtained under this section.
(b)
Information requests based on credible evidence concerning terrorist activity
or money laundering
—(1)
In general.
A law enforcement agency investigating terrorist activity or money laundering may request that FinCEN solicit, on the investigating agency's behalf, certain information from a financial institution or a group of financial institutions. When submitting such a request to FinCEN, the law enforcement agency shall provide FinCEN with a written certification, in such form and manner as FinCEN may prescribe. At a minimum, such certification must: State that each individual, entity, or organization about which the law enforcement agency is seeking information is engaged in, or is reasonably suspected based on credible evidence of engaging in, terrorist activity or money laundering; include enough specific identifiers, such as date of birth, address, and social security number, that would permit a financial institution to differentiate between common or similar names; and identify one person at the agency who can be contacted with any questions relating to its request. Upon receiving the requisite certification from the requesting law enforcement agency, FinCEN may require any financial institution to search its records to determine whether the financial institution maintains or has maintained accounts for, or has engaged in transactions with, any specified individual, entity, or organization.
(2)
Requests from FinCEN.
FinCEN may solicit, on its own behalf and on behalf of appropriate components of the Department of the Treasury, whether a financial institution or a group of financial institutions maintains or has maintained accounts for, or has engaged in transactions with, any specified individual, entity, or organization. Before an information request under this section is made to a financial institution, FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component shall certify in writing in the same manner as a requesting law enforcement agency that each individual, entity or organization about which FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component is seeking information is engaged in, or is reasonably suspected based on credible evidence of engaging in, terrorist activity or money laundering. The certification also must include enough specific identifiers, such as date of birth, address, and social security number, that would permit a financial institution to differentiate between common or similar names, and identify one person at FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component who can be contacted with any questions relating to its request.
(3)
Obligations of a financial institution receiving an information request
—(i)
Record search.
Upon receiving an information request from FinCEN under this section, a financial institution shall expeditiously search its records to determine whether it maintains or has maintained any account for, or has engaged in any transaction with, each individual, entity, or organization named in FinCEN's request. A financial institution may contact the law enforcement agency, FinCEN or requesting Treasury component representative, or U.S. law enforcement attaché in the case of a request by a foreign law enforcement agency, which has been named in the information request provided to the institution by FinCEN with any questions relating to the scope or terms of the request. Except as otherwise provided in the information request, a financial institution shall only be required to search its records for:
(A) Any current account maintained for a named suspect;
(B) Any account maintained for a named suspect during the preceding twelve months; and
(C) Any transaction, as defined by § 1010.505(d), conducted by or on behalf of a named suspect, or any transmittal of funds conducted in which a named suspect was either the transmittor or the recipient, during the preceding six months that is required under law or regulation to be recorded by the financial institution or is recorded and maintained electronically by the institution.
(ii)
Report to FinCEN.
If a financial institution identifies an account or transaction identified with any individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN, it shall report to FinCEN, in the manner and in the time frame specified in FinCEN's request, the following information:
(A) The name of such individual, entity, or organization;
(B) The number of each such account, or in the case of a transaction, the date and type of each such transaction; and
(C) Any Social Security number, taxpayer identification number, passport number, date of birth, address, or other similar identifying information provided by the individual, entity, or organization when each such account was opened or each such transaction was conducted.
(iii)
Designation of contact person.
Upon receiving an information request under this section, a financial institution shall designate one person to be the point of contact at the institution regarding the request and to receive similar requests for information from FinCEN in the future. When requested by FinCEN, a financial institution shall provide FinCEN with the name, title, mailing address, e-mail address, telephone number, and facsimile number of such person, in such manner as FinCEN may prescribe. A financial institution that has provided FinCEN with contact information must promptly notify FinCEN of any changes to such information.
(iv)
Use and security of information request.
(A) A financial institution shall not use information provided by FinCEN pursuant to this section for any purpose other than:
(
1
) Reporting to FinCEN as provided in this section;
(
2
) Determining whether to establish or maintain an account, or to engage in a transaction; or
(
3
) Assisting the financial institution in complying with any requirement of this chapter.
(B)(
1
) A financial institution shall not disclose to any person, other than FinCEN or the requesting Treasury component, the law enforcement agency on whose behalf FinCEN is requesting information, or U.S. law enforcement attaché in the case of a request by a foreign law enforcement agency, which has been named in the information request, the fact that FinCEN has requested or has obtained information under this section, except to the extent necessary to comply with such an information request.
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section, a financial institution authorized to share information under § 1010.540 may share information concerning an individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN in accordance with the requirements of such section. However, such sharing shall not disclose the fact that FinCEN has requested information concerning such individual, entity, or organization.
(C) Each financial institution shall maintain adequate procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of requests from FinCEN for information under this section. The requirements of this paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(C) shall be deemed satisfied to the extent that a financial institution applies to such information procedures that the institution has established to satisfy the requirements of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801), and applicable regulations issued thereunder, with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information.
(v)
No other action required.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a financial institution to take any action, or to decline to take any action, with respect to an account established for, or a transaction engaged in with, an individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN, or to decline to establish an account for, or to engage in a transaction with, any such individual, entity, or organization. Except as otherwise provided in an information request under this section, such a request shall not require a financial institution to report on future account opening activity or transactions or to treat a suspect list received under this section as a government list for purposes of section 326 of Public Law 107-56.
(4)
Relation to the Right to Financial Privacy Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
The information that a financial institution is required to report pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section is information required to be reported in accordance with a Federal statute or rule promulgated thereunder, for purposes of subsection
3413(d) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. 3413(d)) and subsection 502(e)(8) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6802(e)(8)).
(5)
No effect on law enforcement or regulatory investigations.
Nothing in this subpart affects the authority of a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency or officer, or FinCEN or another component of the Department of the Treasury, to obtain information directly from a financial institution.
§ 1010.530
[Reserved]
§ 1010.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Financial institution.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the term “financial institution” means any financial institution described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) that is required under this chapter to establish and maintain an anti-money laundering program, or is treated under this chapter as having satisfied the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1).
(ii) For purposes of this section, a financial institution shall not mean any institution included within a class of financial institutions that FinCEN has designated as ineligible to share information under this section.
(2)
Association of financial institutions
means a group or organization the membership of which is comprised entirely of financial institutions as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions
—(1)
In general.
Subject to paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section, a financial institution or an association of financial institutions may, under the protection of the safe harbor from liability described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, transmit, receive, or otherwise share information with any other financial institution or association of financial institutions regarding individuals, entities, organizations, and countries for purposes of identifying and, where appropriate, reporting activities that the financial institution or association suspects may involve possible terrorist activity or money laundering.
(2)
Notice requirement.
A financial institution or association of financial institutions that intends to share information as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall submit to FinCEN a notice described on FinCEN's Internet Web site,
http://www.fincen.gov.
Each notice provided pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) shall be effective for the one year period beginning on the date of the notice. In order to continue to engage in the sharing of information after the end of the one year period, a financial institution or association of financial institutions must submit a new notice. Completed notices may be submitted to FinCEN by accessing FinCEN's Internet Web site,
http://www.fincen.gov.,
and entering the appropriate information as directed, or, if a financial institution does not have Internet access, by mail to: FinCEN, P.O. Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
(3)
Verification requirement.
Prior to sharing information as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a financial institution or an association of financial institutions must take reasonable steps to verify that the other financial institution or association of financial institutions with which it intends to share information has submitted to FinCEN the notice required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A financial institution or an association of financial institutions may satisfy this paragraph (b)(3) by confirming that the other financial institution or association of financial institutions appears on a list that FinCEN will periodically make available to financial institutions or associations of financial institutions that have filed a notice with it, or by confirming directly with the other financial institution or association of financial institutions that the requisite notice has been filed.
(4)
Use and security of information.
(i) Information received by a financial institution or an association of financial institutions pursuant to this section shall not be used for any purpose other than:
(A) Identifying and, where appropriate, reporting on money laundering or terrorist activities;
(B) Determining whether to establish or maintain an account, or to engage in a transaction; or
(C) Assisting the financial institution in complying with any requirement of this chapter.
(ii) Each financial institution or association of financial institutions that engages in the sharing of information pursuant to this section shall maintain adequate procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of such information. The requirements of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii) shall be deemed satisfied to the extent that a financial institution applies to such information procedures that the institution has established to satisfy the requirements of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801), and applicable regulations issued thereunder, with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information.
(5)
Safe harbor from certain liability
—(i)
In general.
A financial institution or association of financial institutions that shares information pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be protected from liability for such sharing, or for any failure to provide notice of such sharing, to an individual, entity, or organization that is identified in such sharing, to the full extent provided in subsection 314(b) of Public Law 107-56.
(ii)
Limitation.
Paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section shall not apply to a financial institution or association of financial institutions to the extent such institution or association fails to comply with paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section.
(c)
Information sharing between financial institutions and the Federal Government.
If, as a result of information shared pursuant to this section, a financial institution knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that an individual, entity, or organization is involved in, or may be involved in terrorist activity or money laundering, and such institution is subject to a suspicious activity reporting requirement under this chapter or other applicable regulations, the institution shall file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with those regulations. In situations involving violations requiring immediate attention, such as when a reportable violation involves terrorist activity or is ongoing, the financial institution shall immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority and financial institution supervisory authorities in addition to filing timely a Suspicious Activity Report. A financial institution that is not subject to a suspicious activity reporting requirement is not required to file a Suspicious Activity Report or otherwise to notify law enforcement of suspicious activity that is detected as a result of information shared pursuant to this section. Such a financial institution is encouraged, however, to voluntarily report such activity to FinCEN.
(d)
No effect on financial institution reporting obligations.
Nothing in this subpart affects the obligation of a financial institution to file a Suspicious Activity Report pursuant to this chapter or any other applicable regulations, or to otherwise contact directly a Federal agency concerning individuals or entities suspected of engaging in terrorist activity or money laundering.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures
§ 1010.600
General.
Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its Chapter X Part for any additional special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements.

# Special Due Diligence for Correspondent Accounts and Private Banking Accounts
§ 1010.605
Definitions.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024.
Except as otherwise provided, the following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 1010.610 through 1010.630 and § 1010.670:
(a)
Beneficial owner
of an account means an individual who has a level of control over, or entitlement to, the funds or assets in the account that, as a practical matter, enables the individual, directly or indirectly, to control, manage or direct the account. The ability to fund the account or the entitlement to the funds of the account alone, however, without any corresponding authority to control, manage or direct the account (such as in the case of a minor child beneficiary),
does not cause the individual to be a beneficial owner.
(b)
Certification and recertification
mean the certification and recertification forms regarding correspondent accounts for foreign banks located on FinCEN's Internet Web site,
http://www.fincen.gov.
(c)
Correspondent account.
(1) The term
correspondent account
means:
(i) For purposes of § 1010.610(a), (d) and (e), an account established for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments or other disbursements on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution; and
(ii) For purposes of §§ 1010.610(b) and (c), 1010.630 and 1010.670, an account established for a foreign bank to receive deposits from, or to make payments or other disbursements on behalf of, the foreign bank, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign bank.
(2) For purposes of this definition, the term
account:
(i) As applied to banks (as set forth in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section):
(A) Means any formal banking or business relationship established by a bank to provide regular services, dealings, and other financial transactions; and
(B) Includes a demand deposit, savings deposit, or other transaction or asset account and a credit account or other extension of credit;
(ii) As applied to brokers or dealers in securities (as set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) means any formal relationship established with a broker or dealer in securities to provide regular services to effect transactions in securities, including, but not limited to, the purchase or sale of securities and securities loaned and borrowed activity, and to hold securities or other assets for safekeeping or as collateral;
(iii) As applied to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers (as set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(ix) of this section) means any formal relationship established by a futures commission merchant to provide regular services, including, but not limited to, those established to effect transactions in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, options on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or options on a commodity; and
(iv) As applied to mutual funds (as set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(x) of this section) means any contractual or other business relationship established between a person and a mutual fund to provide regular services to effect transactions in securities issued by the mutual fund, including the purchase or sale of securities.
(d)
Correspondent relationship
has the same meaning as correspondent account for purposes of §§ 1010.630 and 1010.670.
(e)
Covered financial institution
means:
(1) For purposes of § 1010.610 and 1010.620:
(i) A bank required to have an anti-money laundering compliance program under the regulations implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), 12 U.S.C. 1818(s), or 12 U.S.C. 1786(q)(1);
(ii) A broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(iii) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to be registered, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
(iv) A mutual fund;
(2) For purposes of §§ 1010.630 and 1010.670:
(i) An insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h)));
(ii) A commercial bank or trust company;
(iii) A private banker;
(iv) An agency or branch of a foreign bank in the United States;
(v) A credit union;
(vi) A savings association;
(vii) A corporation acting under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.
); and
(viii) A broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(f)
Foreign financial institution.
(1) The term
foreign financial institution
means:
(i) A foreign bank;
(ii) Any branch or office located outside the United States of any covered financial institution described in paragraphs (e)(1)(viii) through (x) of this section;
(iii) Any other person organized under foreign law (other than a branch or office of such person in the United States) that, if it were located in the United States, would be a covered financial institution described in paragraphs (e)(1)(viii) through (x) of this section; and
(iv) Any person organized under foreign law (other than a branch or office of such person in the United States) that is engaged in the business of, and is readily identifiable as:
(A) A dealer in foreign exchange; or
(B) A money transmitter.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, a person is not “engaged in the business” of a dealer in foreign exchange or a money transmitter if such transactions are merely incidental to the person's business.
(g)
Foreign shell bank
means a foreign bank without a physical presence in any country.
(h)
Non-United States person or non-U.S. person
means a natural person who is neither a United States citizen nor is accorded the privilege of residing permanently in the United States pursuant to title 8 of the United States Code. For purposes of this paragraph (h), the definition of
person
in § 1010.100(mm) does not apply, notwithstanding paragraph (k) of this section.
(i)
Offshore banking license
means a license to conduct banking activities that prohibits the licensed entity from conducting banking activities with the citizens of, or in the local currency of, the jurisdiction that issued the license.
(j)
Owner.
(1) The term
owner
means any person who, directly or indirectly:
(i) Owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities or other voting interests of a foreign bank; or
(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors (or individuals exercising similar functions) of a foreign bank.
(2) For purposes of this definition:
(i) Members of the same family shall be considered to be one person.
(ii) The term
same family
means parents, spouses, children, siblings, uncles, aunts, grandparents, grandchildren, first cousins, stepchildren, stepsiblings, parents-in-law, and spouses of any of the foregoing.
(iii) Each member of the same family who has an ownership interest in a foreign bank must be identified if the family is an owner as a result of aggregating the ownership interests of the members of the family. In determining the ownership interests of the same family, any voting interest of any family member shall be taken into account.
(iv)
Voting securities or other voting interests
means securities or other interests that entitle the holder to vote for or to select directors (or individuals exercising similar functions).
(k)
Person
has the meaning provided in § 1010.100(mm).
(l)
Physical presence
means a place of business that:
(1) Is maintained by a foreign bank;
(2) Is located at a fixed address (other than solely an electronic address or a post-office box) in a country in which the foreign bank is authorized to conduct banking activities, at which location the foreign bank:
(i) Employs one or more individuals on a full-time basis; and
(ii) Maintains operating records related to its banking activities; and
(3) Is subject to inspection by the banking authority that licensed the foreign bank to conduct banking activities.
(m)
Private banking account
means an account (or any combination of accounts) maintained at a covered financial institution that:
(1) Requires a minimum aggregate deposit of funds or other assets of not less than $1,000,000;
(2) Is established on behalf of or for the benefit of one or more non-U.S. persons who are direct or beneficial owners of the account; and
(3) Is assigned to, or is administered or managed by, in whole or in part, an officer, employee, or agent of a covered financial institution acting as a liaison between the covered financial institution and the direct or beneficial owner of the account.
(n)
Regulated affiliate.
(1) The term
regulated affiliate
means a foreign shell bank that:
(i) Is an affiliate of a depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank that maintains a physical presence in the United States or a foreign country, as applicable; and
(ii) Is subject to supervision by a banking authority in the country regulating such affiliated depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank.
(2) For purposes of this definition:
(i)
Affiliate
means a foreign bank that is controlled by, or is under common control with, a depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank.
(ii)
Control
means:
(A) Ownership, control, or power to vote 50 percent or more of any class of voting securities or other voting interests of another company; or
(B) Control in any manner the election of a majority of the directors (or individuals exercising similar functions) of another company.
(o)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
(p)
Senior foreign political figure.
(1) The term
senior foreign political figure
means:
(i) A current or former:
(A) Senior official in the executive, legislative, administrative, military, or judicial branches of a foreign government (whether elected or not);
(B) Senior official of a major foreign political party; or
(C) Senior executive of a foreign government-owned commercial enterprise;
(ii) A corporation, business, or other entity that has been formed by, or for the benefit of, any such individual;
(iii) An immediate family member of any such individual; and
(iv) A person who is widely and publicly known (or is actually known by the relevant covered financial institution) to be a close associate of such individual.
(2) For purposes of this definition:
(i)
Senior official or executive
means an individual with substantial authority over policy, operations, or the use of government-owned resources; and
(ii)
Immediate family member
means spouses, parents, siblings, children and a spouse's parents and siblings.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43596, July 21, 2011; 85 FR 57137, Sept. 15, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024, § 1010.605 was amended, effective Jan. 1, 2026.
§ 1010.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
(a)
In general.
A covered financial institution shall establish a due diligence program that includes appropriate, specific, risk-based, and, where necessary, enhanced policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to enable the covered financial institution to detect and report, on an ongoing basis, any known or suspected money laundering activity conducted through or involving any correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed by such covered financial institution in the United States for a foreign financial institution. The due diligence program required by this section shall be a part of the anti-money laundering program otherwise required by this chapter. Such policies, procedures, and controls shall include:
(1) Determining whether any such correspondent account is subject to paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Assessing the money laundering risk presented by such correspondent account, based on a consideration of all relevant factors, which shall include, as appropriate:
(i) The nature of the foreign financial institution's business and the markets it serves;
(ii) The type, purpose, and anticipated activity of such correspondent account;
(iii) The nature and duration of the covered financial institution's relationship with the foreign financial institution (and any of its affiliates);
(iv) The anti-money laundering and supervisory regime of the jurisdiction that issued the charter or license to the foreign financial institution, and, to the extent that information regarding such jurisdiction is reasonably available, of the jurisdiction in which any company that is an owner of the foreign financial institution is incorporated or chartered; and
(v) Information known or reasonably available to the covered financial institution about the foreign financial institution's anti-money laundering record; and
(3) Applying risk-based procedures and controls to each such correspondent account reasonably designed to detect and report known or suspected money laundering activity, including a periodic review of the correspondent account activity sufficient to determine consistency with information obtained about the type, purpose, and anticipated activity of the account.
(b)
Enhanced due diligence for certain foreign banks.
In the case of a correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States for a foreign bank described in paragraph (c) of this section, the due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include enhanced due diligence procedures designed to ensure that the covered financial institution, at a minimum, takes reasonable steps to:
(1) Conduct enhanced scrutiny of such correspondent account to guard against money laundering and to identify and report any suspicious transactions in accordance with applicable law and regulation. This enhanced scrutiny shall reflect the risk assessment of the account and shall include, as appropriate:
(i) Obtaining and considering information relating to the foreign bank's anti-money laundering program to assess the risk of money laundering presented by the foreign bank's correspondent account;
(ii) Monitoring transactions to, from, or through the correspondent account in a manner reasonably designed to detect money laundering and suspicious activity; and
(iii)(A) Obtaining information from the foreign bank about the identity of any person with authority to direct transactions through any correspondent account that is a payable-through account, and the sources and beneficial owner of funds or other assets in the payable-through account.
(B) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, a
payable-through account
means a correspondent account maintained by a covered financial institution for a foreign bank by means of which the foreign bank permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
(2) Determine whether the foreign bank for which the correspondent account is established or maintained in turn maintains correspondent accounts for other foreign banks that use the foreign correspondent account established or maintained by the covered financial institution and, if so, take reasonable steps to obtain information relevant to assess and mitigate money laundering risks associated with the foreign bank's correspondent accounts for other foreign banks, including, as appropriate, the identity of those foreign banks.
(3)(i) Determine, for any correspondent account established or maintained for a foreign bank whose shares are not publicly traded, the identity of each owner of the foreign bank and the nature and extent of each owner's ownership interest.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section:
(A)
Owner
means any person who directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has the power to vote 10 percent or more of any class of securities of a foreign bank. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A):
(
1
) Members of the same family shall be considered to be one person; and
(
2
)
Same family
has the meaning provided in § 1010.605(j)(2)(ii).
(B)
Publicly traded
means shares that are traded on an exchange or an organized over-the-counter market that is
regulated by a foreign securities authority as defined in section 3(a)(50) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(50)).
(c)
Foreign banks to be accorded enhanced due diligence.
The due diligence procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section are required for any correspondent account maintained for a foreign bank that operates under:
(1) An offshore banking license;
(2) A banking license issued by a foreign country that has been designated as non-cooperative with international anti-money laundering principles or procedures by an intergovernmental group or organization of which the United States is a member and with which designation the U.S. representative to the group or organization concurs; or
(3) A banking license issued by a foreign country that has been designated by the Secretary as warranting special measures due to money laundering concerns.
(d)
Special procedures when due diligence or enhanced due diligence cannot be performed.
The due diligence program required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall include procedures to be followed in circumstances in which a covered financial institution cannot perform appropriate due diligence or enhanced due diligence with respect to a correspondent account, including when the covered financial institution should refuse to open the account, suspend transaction activity, file a suspicious activity report, or close the account.
(e)
Applicability rules for general due diligence.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
(1)
General rules
—(i)
Correspondent accounts established on or after July 5, 2006.
Effective July 5, 2006, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established on or after that date.
(ii)
Correspondent accounts established before July 5, 2006.
Effective October 2, 2006, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established before July 5, 2006.
(2)
Special rules for certain banks.
Until the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) shall continue to apply to any covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi).
(3)
Special rules for all other covered financial institutions.
The due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) through (x) until the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
Applicability rules for enhanced due diligence.
The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
(1)
General rules
—(i)
Correspondent accounts established on or after February 5, 2008.
Effective February 5, 2008, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established on or after such date.
(ii)
Correspondent accounts established before February 5, 2008.
Effective May 5, 2008, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established before February 5, 2008.
(2)
Special rules for certain banks.
Until the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the enhanced due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(2) shall continue to apply to any covered financial institutions listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi).
(3)
Special rules for all other covered financial institutions.
The enhanced due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(2) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) through (x) until the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section become applicable, as set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g)
Exemptions
—(1)
Exempt financial institutions.
Except as provided in this section, a financial institution defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1), or § 1010.100(t) is exempt from the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) and (i)(2) pertaining to correspondent accounts.
(2)
Other compliance obligations of financial institutions unaffected.
Nothing
in paragraph (g) of this section shall be construed to relieve a financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31, United States Code, and this chapter.
§ 1010.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
(a)
In general.
A covered financial institution shall maintain a due diligence program that includes policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to detect and report any known or suspected money laundering or suspicious activity conducted through or involving any private banking account that is established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States by such financial institution. The due diligence program required by this section shall be a part of the anti-money laundering program otherwise required by this chapter.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
The due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be designed to ensure, at a minimum, that the financial institution takes reasonable steps to:
(1) Ascertain the identity of all nominal and beneficial owners of a private banking account;
(2) Ascertain whether any person identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is a senior foreign political figure;
(3) Ascertain the source(s) of funds deposited into a private banking account and the purpose and expected use of the account; and
(4) Review the activity of the account to ensure that it is consistent with the information obtained about the client's source of funds, and with the stated purpose and expected use of the account, as needed to guard against money laundering, and to report, in accordance with applicable law and regulation, any known or suspected money laundering or suspicious activity conducted to, from, or through a private banking account.
(c)
Special requirements for senior foreign political figures.
(1) In the case of a private banking account for which a senior foreign political figure is a nominal or beneficial owner, the due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include enhanced scrutiny of such account that is reasonably designed to detect and report transactions that may involve the proceeds of foreign corruption.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term
proceeds of foreign corruption
means any asset or property that is acquired by, through, or on behalf of a senior foreign political figure through misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of public funds, the unlawful conversion of property of a foreign government, or through acts of bribery or extortion, and shall include any other property into which any such assets have been transformed or converted.
(d)
Special procedures when due diligence cannot be performed.
The due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include procedures to be followed in circumstances in which a covered financial institution cannot perform appropriate due diligence with respect to a private banking account, including when the covered financial institution should refuse to open the account, suspend transaction activity, file a suspicious activity report, or close the account.
(e)
Applicability rules.
The provisions of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
(1)
General rules
—(i) Private banking accounts established on or after July 5, 2006. Effective July 5, 2006, the requirements of this section shall apply to each private banking account established on or after such date.
(ii) Private banking accounts established before July 5, 2006. Effective October 2, 2006, the requirements of this section shall apply to each private banking account established before July 5, 2006.
(2)
Special rules for certain banks and for brokers or dealers in securities, futures commission merchants, and introducing brokers.
Until the requirements of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) shall continue to apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi), (viii), or (ix).
(3)
Special rules for federally regulated trust banks or trust companies, and mutual funds.
Until the requirements of
this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) or (x).
(4)
Exemptions
—(i)
Exempt financial institutions.
Except as provided in this section, a financial institution defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1) or § 1010.100(t) is exempt from the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) pertaining to private banking accounts.
(ii)
Other compliance obligations of financial institutions unaffected.
Nothing in paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be construed to relieve a financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31, United States Code, and this chapter.
§ 1010.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
(a)
Requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks.
(i) A covered financial institution shall not establish, maintain, administer, or manage a correspondent account in the United States for, or on behalf of, a foreign shell bank.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps to ensure that any correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed by that covered financial institution in the United States for a foreign bank is not being used by that foreign bank to indirectly provide banking services to a foreign shell bank.
(iii) Nothing in paragraph (a)(1) of this section prohibits a covered financial institution from providing a correspondent account or banking services to a regulated affiliate.
(2)
Records of owners and agents.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a covered financial institution that maintains a correspondent account in the United States for a foreign bank shall maintain records in the United States identifying the owners of each such foreign bank whose shares are not publicly traded and the name and street address of a person who resides in the United States and is authorized, and has agreed to be an agent to accept service of legal process for records regarding each such account.
(ii) A covered financial institution need not maintain records of the owners of any foreign bank that is required to have on file with the Federal Reserve Board a Form FR Y-7 that identifies the current owners of the foreign bank as required by such form.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section,
publicly traded
refers to shares that are traded on an exchange or on an organized over-the-counter market that is regulated by a foreign securities authority as defined in section 3(a)(50) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(50)).
(b)
Safe harbor.
Subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, a covered financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a foreign bank if the covered financial institution obtains, at least once every three years, a certification or recertification from the foreign bank.
(c)
Interim verification.
If at any time a covered financial institution knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect, that any information contained in a certification or recertification provided by a foreign bank, or otherwise relied upon by the covered financial institution for purposes of this section, is no longer correct, the covered financial institution shall request that the foreign bank verify or correct such information, or shall take other appropriate measures to ascertain the accuracy of the information or to obtain correct information, as appropriate. See paragraph (d)(3) of this section for additional requirements if a foreign bank fails to verify or correct the information or if a covered financial institution cannot ascertain the accuracy of the information or obtain correct information.
(d)
Closure of correspondent accounts
—(1)
Accounts existing on October 28, 2002.
In the case of any correspondent account that was in existence on October 28, 2002, if the covered financial institution has not obtained a certification (or recertification) from the foreign
bank, or has not otherwise obtained documentation of the information required by such certification (or recertification), on or before March 31, 2003, and at least once every three years thereafter, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
(2)
Accounts established after October 28, 2002.
In the case of any correspondent account established after October 28, 2002, if the covered financial institution has not obtained a certification (or recertification), or has not otherwise obtained documentation of the information required by such certification (or recertification) within 30 calendar days after the date the account is established, and at least once every three years thereafter, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
(3)
Verification of previously provided information.
In the case of a foreign bank with respect to which the covered financial institution undertakes to verify information pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, if the covered financial institution has not obtained, from the foreign bank or otherwise, verification of the information or corrected information within 90 calendar days after the date of undertaking the verification, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
(4)
Reestablishment of closed accounts and establishment of new accounts.
A covered financial institution shall not reestablish any account closed pursuant to this paragraph (d), and shall not establish any other correspondent account with the concerned foreign bank, until it obtains from the foreign bank the certification or the recertification, as appropriate.
(5)
Limitation on liability.
A covered financial institution shall not be liable to any person in any court or arbitration proceeding for terminating a correspondent account in accordance with this paragraph (d).
(e)
Recordkeeping requirement.
A covered financial institution shall retain the original of any document provided by a foreign bank, and the original or a copy of any document otherwise relied upon by the covered financial institution, for purposes of this section, for at least 5 years after the date that the covered financial institution no longer maintains any correspondent account for such foreign bank. A covered financial institution shall retain such records with respect to any foreign bank for such longer period as the Secretary may direct.
(f)
Special rules concerning information requested prior to October 28, 2002
—(1)
Definition.
For purposes of this paragraph (f) the term “Interim Guidance” means:
(i) The Interim Guidance of the Department of the Treasury dated November 20, 2001 and published in the
Federal Register
on November 27, 2001; or
(ii) The guidance issued in a document published in the
Federal Register
on December 28, 2001.
(2)
Use of Interim Guidance certification.
In the case of a correspondent account in existence on October 28, 2002, the term “certification” as used in paragraphs (b), (c), (d)(1), and (d)(3) of this section shall also include the certification appended to the Interim Guidance, provided that such certification was requested prior to October 28, 2002 and obtained by the covered financial institution on or before December 26, 2002.
(3)
Recordkeeping requirement.
Paragraph (e) of this section shall apply to any document provided by a foreign bank, or otherwise relied upon by a covered financial institution, for purposes of the Interim Guidance.
§ 1010.640
[Reserved]

# Special Measures Under Section 311 of the USA Patriot Act and Law Enforcement Access to Foreign Bank Records
§ 1010.651
Special measures against Burma.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Burmese banking institution
means any foreign bank, as that term is defined in § 1010.100(u), chartered or licensed by Burma, including branches and offices located outside Burma.
(2)
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c).
(3)
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(2) and also includes the following:
(i) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to register, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
); and
(ii) An investment company (as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) that is an open-end company (as defined in section 5 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) and that is registered, or required to register, with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to that Act.
(b)
Requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on correspondent accounts.
A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent account that is established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States for, or on behalf of, a Burmese banking institution.
(2)
Prohibition on indirect correspondent accounts.
(i) If a covered financial institution has or obtains knowledge that a correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed by that covered financial institution in the United States for a foreign bank is being used by the foreign bank to provide banking services indirectly to a Burmese banking institution, the covered financial institution shall ensure that the correspondent account is no longer used to provide such services, including, where necessary, terminating the correspondent account; and
(ii) A covered financial institution required to terminate an account pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section:
(A) Shall do so within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transactions through such account, other than those necessary to close the account; and
(B) May reestablish an account closed pursuant to this paragraph if it determines that the account will not be used to provide banking services indirectly to a Burmese banking institution.
(3)
Exception.
The provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section shall not apply to a correspondent account provided that the operation of such account is not prohibited by Executive Order 13310 and the transactions involving Burmese banking institutions that are conducted through the correspondent account are limited solely to transactions that are exempted from, or otherwise authorized by regulation, order, directive, or license pursuant to, Executive Order 13310.
(4)
Reporting and recordkeeping not required.
Nothing in this section shall require a covered financial institution to maintain any records, obtain any certification, or report any information not otherwise required by law or regulation.
§ 1010.653
Special measures against Commercial Bank of Syria.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Commercial Bank of Syria
means any branch, office, or subsidiary of Commercial Bank of Syria operating in Syria or in any other jurisdiction, including Syrian Lebanese Commercial Bank.
(2)
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
(3)
Covered financial institution
includes:
(i) An insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h)));
(ii) A commercial bank;
(iii) An agency or branch of a foreign bank in the United States;
(iv) A federally insured credit union;
(v) A savings association;
(vi) A corporation acting under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.
);
(vii) A trust bank or trust company that is federally regulated and is subject to an anti-money laundering program requirement;
(viii) A broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(ix) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to be registered, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
(x) A mutual fund, which means an investment company (as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 ((“Investment Company Act”) (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1))) that is an open-end company (as defined in section 5(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5(a)(1))) and that is registered, or is required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Investment Company Act.
(4)
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b)
Requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on direct use of correspondent accounts.
A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent account that is open or maintained in the United States for, or on behalf of, Commercial Bank of Syria.
(2)
Due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit indirect use.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply due diligence to its correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their indirect use by Commercial Bank of Syria. At a minimum, that due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying correspondent account holders that the correspondent account may not be used to provide Commercial Bank of Syria with access to the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any indirect use of its correspondent accounts by Commercial Bank of Syria, to the extent that such indirect use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, additional due diligence measures it should adopt to guard against the indirect use of its correspondent accounts by Commercial Bank of Syria.
(iii) A covered financial institution that obtains knowledge that a correspondent account is being used by the foreign bank to provide indirect access to Commercial Bank of Syria shall take all appropriate steps to prevent such indirect access, including, where necessary, terminating the correspondent account.
(iv) A covered financial institution required to terminate a correspondent account pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section:
(A) Should do so within a commercially reasonable time, and should not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through such correspondent account, other than those necessary to close the correspondent account; and
(B) May reestablish a correspondent account closed pursuant to this paragraph if it determines that the correspondent account will not be used to provide banking services indirectly to Commercial Bank of Syria.
(3)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this section shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
§ 1010.658
Special measures against FBME Bank, Ltd.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
FBME Bank, Ltd.
means all branches, offices, and subsidiaries of FBME Bank, Ltd. operating in any jurisdiction.
(2)
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
(3)
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(4)
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b)
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account in the United States for, or on behalf of, FBME Bank, Ltd.
(2)
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use
—(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving FBME Bank, Ltd. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to know provide services to FBME Bank, Ltd., that such correspondents may not provide FBME Bank, Ltd. with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by FBME Bank, Ltd., to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving FBME Bank, Ltd.
(iii) A covered financial institution that obtains knowledge that a foreign correspondent account may be being used to process transactions involving FBME Bank, Ltd. shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(iv) A covered financial institution required to terminate a correspondent account pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section:
(A) Should do so within a commercially reasonable time, and should not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through such correspondent account, other than those necessary to close the correspondent account; and
(B) May reestablish a correspondent account closed pursuant to this paragraph if it determines that the correspondent account will not be used to provide banking services indirectly to FBME Bank Ltd.
(3)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[81 FR 18493, Mar. 31, 2016]
§ 1010.659
Special measures against North Korea.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
North Korean banking institution
means any bank organized under North Korean law, or any agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of such a bank.
(2)
North Korean financial institution
means all branches, offices, or subsidiaries of any foreign financial institution, as defined at § 1010.605(f), chartered or licensed by North Korea, wherever located, including any branches,
offices, or subsidiaries of such a financial institution operating in any jurisdiction, and any branch or office within North Korea of any foreign financial institution.
(3)
Foreign bank
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100(u).
(4)
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(i).
(5)
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(6)
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b)
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Opening or maintenance of correspondent accounts for a North Korean banking institution.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, a North Korean banking institution.
(2)
Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts involving North Korean financial institutions.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps to not process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign bank in the United States if such a transaction involves a North Korean financial institution.
(3)
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving North Korean financial institutions. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe provide services to a North Korean financial institution that such correspondents may not provide a North Korean financial institution with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by a North Korean financial institution, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving North Korean financial institutions.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process transactions involving a North Korean financial institution shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[81 FR 78721, Nov. 9, 2016]
§ 1010.660
Special measures against Bank of Dandong.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Bank of Dandong
means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Bank of Dandong Co., Ltd. operating in any jurisdiction.
(2)
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
(3)
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(4)
Foreign banking institution
means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the
United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
(5)
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b)
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Bank of Dandong.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, Bank of Dandong.
(2)
Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts involving Bank of Dandong.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign banking institution in the United States if such a transaction involves Bank of Dandong.
(3)
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe provide services to Bank of Dandong that such correspondents may not provide Bank of Dandong with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by Bank of Dandong, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[82 FR 51765, Nov. 8, 2017]
§ 1010.661
Special measures against Iran.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Iranian financial institution
means any foreign financial institution, as defined at § 1010.605(f), organized under Iranian law wherever located, including any agency, branch, office, or subsidiary of such a financial institution operating in any jurisdiction, and any branch or office within Iran of any foreign financial institution.
(2)
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c).
(3)
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(4)
Foreign bank
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100.
(5)
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b)
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Iranian financial institutions.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, an Iranian financial institution, unless such account is authorized by United
States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# )(1):
Note that covered financial institutions should block and report to OFAC any accounts that are blocked pursuant to any OFAC sanctions authority and therefore should continue to maintain such accounts in accordance with the Reporting Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(2)
Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps to not process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign bank in the United States if such a transaction involves an Iranian financial institution, unless the transaction is authorized by, exempt from, or not prohibited under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), any regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto, or any other sanctions program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control.
(3)
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to the correspondent accounts of a foreign bank that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Iranian financial institutions that are prohibited, and not authorized or exempt, pursuant to the IEEPA, any regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto, or any other sanctions program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control (“prohibited transactions”). At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe the correspondent account is being used to process transactions involving Iranian financial institutions that such prohibited transactions may not take place; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts for prohibited transactions involving Iranian financial institutions, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process prohibited transactions involving Iranian financial institutions.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process prohibited transactions involving Iranian financial institutions shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in this section.
(ii) Nothing in this section shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[84 FR 59313, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 1010.663
Special measures regarding Al-Huda Bank.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
(1)
Al-Huda Bank.
The term “Al-Huda Bank” means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Al-Huda Bank operating as a bank in any jurisdiction.
(2)
Correspondent account.
The term “correspondent account” has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
(3)
Covered financial institution.
The term “covered financial institution” has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(4)
Foreign banking institution.
The term “foreign banking institution” means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a
bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
(5)
Subsidiary.
The term “subsidiary” means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b) Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Prohibition on opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Al-Huda Bank. A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, Al-Huda Bank.
(2)
Prohibition on processing transactions involving Al-Huda Bank.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account in the United States of a foreign banking institution if such a transaction involves Al-Huda Bank.
(3)
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit transactions.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Al-Huda Bank. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe provide services to Al-Huda Bank that such correspondents may not provide Al-Huda Bank with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by Al-Huda Bank, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving Al-Huda Bank.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process transactions involving Al-Huda Bank shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[89 FR 55058, July 3, 2024]
§ 1010.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.
(a)
Definitions.
The definitions in § 1010.605 apply to this section.
(b)
Issuance to foreign banks.
The Secretary or the Attorney General may issue a summons or subpoena to any foreign bank that maintains a correspondent account in the United States and may request records related to such correspondent account, including records maintained outside of the United States relating to the deposit of funds into the foreign bank. The summons or subpoena may be served on the foreign bank in the United States if the foreign bank has a representative in the United States, or in a foreign country pursuant to any mutual legal assistance treaty, multilateral agreement, or other request for international law enforcement assistance.
(c)
Issuance to covered financial institutions.
Upon receipt of a written request from a Federal law enforcement officer for information required to be maintained by a covered financial institution under paragraph (a)(2) of § 1010.630, the covered financial institution shall provide the information to
the requesting officer not later than 7 days after receipt of the request.
(d)
Termination upon receipt of notice.
A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent relationship with a foreign bank not later than 10 business days after receipt of written notice from the Secretary or the Attorney General (in each case, after consultation with the other) that the foreign bank has failed:
(1) To comply with a summons or subpoena issued under paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) To initiate proceedings in a United States court contesting such summons or subpoena.
(e)
Limitation on liability.
A covered financial institution shall not be liable to any person in any court or arbitration proceeding for terminating a correspondent relationship in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Failure to terminate relationship.
Failure to terminate a correspondent relationship in accordance with this section shall render the covered financial institution liable for a civil penalty of up to $10,000 per day until the correspondent relationship is so terminated.

# Subpart G—Administrative Rulings
§ 1010.710
Scope.
This subpart provides that the Director, FinCEN, or his designee, either unilaterally or upon request, may issue administrative rulings interpreting the application of this chapter.
§ 1010.711
Submitting requests.
(a) Each request for an administrative ruling must be in writing and contain the following information:
(1) A complete description of the situation for which the ruling is requested,
(2) A complete statement of all material facts related to the subject transaction,
(3) A concise and unambiguous question to be answered,
(4) A statement certifying, to the best of the requestor's knowledge and belief, that the question to be answered is not applicable to any ongoing state or Federal investigation, litigation, grand jury proceeding, or proceeding before any other governmental body involving either the requestor, any other party to the subject transaction, or any other party with whom the requestor has an agency relationship,
(5) A statement identifying any information in the request that the requestor considers to be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the reason therefor,
(6) If the subject situation is hypothetical, a statement justifying why the particular situation described warrants the issuance of a ruling,
(7) The signature of the person making the request, or
(8) If an agent makes the request, the signature of the agent and a statement certifying the authority under which the request is made.
(b) A request filed by a corporation shall be signed by a corporate officer and a request filed by a partnership shall be signed by a partner.
(c) A request may advocate a particular proposed interpretation and may set forth the legal and factual basis for that interpretation.
(d) Requests shall be addressed to: Director, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, P.O. Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
(e) The requester shall advise the Director, FinCEN, immediately in writing of any subsequent change in any material fact or statement submitted with a ruling request in conformity with paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1010.712
Nonconforming requests.
The Director, FinCEN, or his designee shall notify the requester if the ruling request does not conform with the requirements of § 1010.711. The notice shall be in writing and shall describe the requirements that have not been met. A request that is not brought into conformity with such requirements within 30 days from the date of such notice, unless extended for good cause by FinCEN, shall be treated as though it were withdrawn.
§ 1010.713
Oral communications.
(a) The Director of FinCEN or his designee will not issue administrative rulings in response to oral requests. Oral opinions or advice by Treasury,
Customs and Border Protection, the Internal Revenue Service, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or any other bank supervisory agency personnel, regarding the interpretation and application of this chapter, do not bind FinCEN and carry no precedential value.
(b) A person who has made a ruling request in conformity with § 1010.711 may request an opportunity for oral discussion of the issues presented in the request. The request should be made to the Director, FinCEN, and any decision to grant such a conference is wholly within the discretion of the Director. Personal conferences or telephone conferences may be scheduled only for the purpose of affording the requester an opportunity to discuss freely and openly the matters set forth in the administrative ruling request. Accordingly, the conferees will not be bound by any argument or position advocated or agreed to, expressly or impliedly, during the conference. Any new arguments or facts put forth by the requester at the meeting must be reduced to writing by the requester and submitted in conformity with § 1010.711 before they may be considered in connection with the request.
§ 1010.714
Withdrawing requests.
A person may withdraw a request for an administrative ruling at any time before the ruling has been issued.
§ 1010.715
Issuing rulings.
The Director, FinCEN, or his designee may issue a written ruling interpreting the relationship between this chapter and each situation for which such a ruling has been requested in conformity with § 1010.711. A ruling issued under this section shall bind FinCEN only in the event that the request describes a specifically identified actual situation. A ruling issued under this section shall have precedential value, and hence may be relied upon by others similarly situated, only if FinCEN makes it available to the public through publication on the FinCEN Web site under the heading “Administrative rulings” or other appropriate forum. All rulings with precedential value will be available by mail to any person upon written request specifically identifying the ruling sought. FinCEN will make every effort to respond to each requestor within 90 days of receiving a request.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1506-0050)
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]
§ 1010.716
Modifying or rescinding rulings.
(a) The Director, FinCEN, or his designee may modify or rescind any ruling made pursuant to § 1010.715:
(1) When, in light of changes in the statute or regulations, the ruling no longer sets forth the interpretation of the Director, FinCEN with respect to the described situation,
(2) When any fact or statement submitted in the original ruling request is found to be materially inaccurate or incomplete, or
(3) For other good cause.
(b) Any person may submit to the Director, FinCEN a written request that an administrative ruling be modified or rescinded. The request should conform to the requirements of § 1010.711, explain why rescission or modification is warranted, and refer to any reasons in paragraph (a) of this section that are relevant. The request may advocate an alternative interpretation and may set forth the legal and factual basis for that interpretation.
(c) FinCEN shall modify an existing administrative ruling by issuing a new ruling that rescinds the relevant prior ruling. Once rescinded, an administrative ruling shall no longer have any precedential value.
(d) An administrative ruling may be modified or rescinded retroactively with respect to one or more parties to the original ruling request if the Director, FinCEN, determines that:
(1) A fact or statement in the original ruling request was materially inaccurate or incomplete,
(2) The requestor failed to notify in writing FinCEN of a material change to any fact or statement in the original request, or
(3) A party to the original request acted in bad faith when relying upon the ruling.
§ 1010.717
Disclosing information.
(a) Any part of any administrative ruling, including names, addresses, or information related to the business transactions of private parties, may be disclosed pursuant to a request under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. If the request for an administrative ruling contains information which the requestor wishes to be considered for exemption from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, the requestor should clearly identify such portions of the request and the reasons why such information should be exempt from disclosure.
(b) A requestor claiming an exemption from disclosure will be notified, at least 10 days before the administrative ruling is issued, of a decision not to exempt any of such information from disclosure so that the underlying request for an administrative ruling can be withdrawn if the requestor so chooses.

# Subpart H—Enforcement; Penalties; and Forfeiture
§ 1010.810
Enforcement.
Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72275, Sept. 4, 2024.
(a) Overall authority for enforcement and compliance, including coordination and direction of procedures and activities of all other agencies exercising delegated authority under this chapter, is delegated to the Director, FinCEN.
(b) Authority to examine institutions to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter is delegated as follows:
(1) To the Comptroller of the Currency with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by national bank examiners;
(2) To the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by Federal Reserve bank examiners;
(3) To the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by FDIC bank examiners;
(4) To the Federal Home Loan Bank Board with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by FHLBB bank examiners;
(5) To the Chairman of the Board of the National Credit Union Administration with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by NCUA examiners.
(6) To the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to brokers and dealers in securities and investment companies as that term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80-1
et seq.
);
(7) To the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection with respect to §§ 1010.340 and 1010.830;
(8) To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue with respect to all financial institutions, except brokers or dealers in securities, mutual funds, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers in commodities, and commodity trading advisors, not currently examined by Federal bank supervisory agencies for soundness and safety; and
(9) To the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to futures commission merchants, introducing brokers in commodities, and commodity trading advisors.
(10) To the Federal Housing Finance Agency with respect to the housing government sponsored enterprises, as defined in § 1010.100(mmm) of this part.
(c) Authority for investigating criminal violations of this chapter is delegated as follows:
(1) To the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection with respect to § 1010.340;
(2) To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue except with respect to § 1010.340.
(d) Authority for the imposition of civil penalties for violations of this chapter lies with the Director of FinCEN.
(e) Periodic reports shall be made to the Director, FinCEN by each agency to which compliance authority has been delegated under paragraph (b) of this section. These reports shall be in such a form and submitted at such intervals as the Director, FinCEN may direct. Evidence of specific violations of any of the requirements of this chapter may be submitted to the Director, FinCEN at any time.
(f) The Director, FinCEN or his delegate, and any agency to which compliance has been delegated under paragraph (b) of this section, may examine any books, papers, records, or other data of domestic financial institutions relevant to the recordkeeping or reporting requirements of this chapter.
(g) The authority to enforce the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 5314 and §§ 1010.350 and 1010.420 of this chapter has been redelegated from FinCEN to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue by means of a Memorandum of Agreement between FinCEN and IRS. Such authority includes, with respect to 31 U.S.C. 5314 and 1010.350 and 1010.420 of this chapter, the authority to: assess and collect civil penalties under 31 U.S.C. 5321 and 31 CFR 1010.820; investigate possible civil violations of these provisions (in addition to the authority already provided at paragraph (c)(2)) of this section); employ the summons power of subpart I of this part 1010; issue administrative rulings under subpart G of this part 1010; and take any other action reasonably necessary for the enforcement of these and related provisions, including pursuit of injunctions.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 103755, Feb. 25, 2014]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 72275, Sept. 4, 2024, § 1010.810 was amended, effective Jan. 1, 2026.
§ 1010.820
[Reserved]
§ 1010.821
Penalty adjustment and table.
(a)
Inflation adjustments.
In accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, (“FCPIA Act”), as further amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, FinCEN has set forth in paragraph (b) of this section adjusted maximum penalty amounts for each civil monetary penalty provided by law within its jurisdiction that is subject to the FCPIA Act. The adjusted civil monetary penalty amounts replace the amounts published in the statutes authorizing the assessment of penalties.
(b)
Maximum civil monetary penalties.
The statutory penalty provisions and their adjusted maximum amounts or range of minimum and maximum amounts are set out in Table 1. The last column in the table provides the newly effective maximum penalty amounts or range of minimum and maximum amounts. These maximum penalty amounts do not, however, limit the total amount of a penalty in the case of a penalty that may be imposed for each day a violation continues.
Table 1 to § 1010.821—Penalty Adjustment Table
U.S. Code citation
Civil monetary penalty description
Penalties as last
amended by statute
Maximum penalty
amounts or range of
minimum and maximum
penalty amounts for
penalties assessed on or
after January 17, 2025
12 U.S.C. 1829b(j)
Relating to Recordkeeping Violations for Funds Transfers
$10,000
$26,262
12 U.S.C. 1955
Willful or Grossly Negligent Recordkeeping Violations
10,000
26,262
31 U.S.C. 5318(k)(3)(C)
Failure to Terminate Correspondent Relationship with Foreign Bank
10,000
17,765
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(1)
General Civil Penalty Provision for Willful Violations of Bank Secrecy Act Requirements
25,000
−100,000
71,545
−286,184
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(5)(B)(i)
Foreign Financial Agency Transaction—Non-Willful Violation of Transaction
10,000
16,536
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(5)(C)(i)(I)
Foreign Financial Agency Transaction—Willful Violation of Transaction
100,000
165,353
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(6)(A)
Negligent Violation by Financial Institution or Non-Financial Trade or Business
500
1,430
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(6)(B)
Pattern of Negligent Activity by Financial Institution or Non-Financial Trade or Business
50,000
111,308
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(7)
Violation of Certain Due Diligence Requirements, Prohibition on Correspondent Accounts for Shell Banks, and Special Measures
1,000,000
1,776,364
31 U.S.C. 5330(e)
Civil Penalty for Failure to Register as Money Transmitting Business
5,000
10,556
31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(A)(i)
Civil Penalty for Beneficial Ownership Information Reporting Violation
500
606
31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(B)(i)
Civil Penalty for Unauthorized Disclosure or Use of Beneficial Ownership Information
500
606
[81 FR 42505, June 30, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 10439, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11881, Mar. 19, 2018; 85 FR 9371, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7349, Jan. 28, 2020; 86 FR 7810, Feb. 2, 2021; 87 FR 3434, Jan. 24, 2022; 88 FR 3312, Jan. 19, 2023; 88 FR 7357, Feb. 3, 2023; 89 FR 4821, Jan. 25, 2024; 90 FR 5630, Jan. 17, 2025]
§ 1010.830
Forfeiture of currency or monetary instruments.
Any currency or other monetary instruments which are in the process of any transportation with respect to which a report is required under § 1010.340 are subject to seizure and forfeiture to the United States if such report has not been filed as required in § 1010.360, or contains material omissions or misstatements. The Secretary may, in his sole discretion, remit or mitigate any such forfeiture in whole or in part upon such terms and conditions as he deems reasonable.
§ 1010.840
Criminal penalty.
(a) Any person who willfully violates any provision of Title I of Public Law 91-508, or of this chapter authorized thereby may, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $1,000 or be imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both. Such person may in addition, if the violation is of any provision authorized by Title I of Public Law 91-508 and if the violation is committed in furtherance of the commission of any violation of Federal law punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year, be fined not more than $10,000 or be imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(b) Any person who willfully violates any provision of Title II of Public Law 91-508, or of this chapter authorized thereby, may, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $250,000 or be imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(c) Any person who willfully violates any provision of Title II of Public Law 91-508, or of this chapter authorized thereby, where the violation is either
(1) Committed while violating another law of the United States, or
(2) Committed as part of a pattern of any illegal activity involving more than $100,000 in any 12-month period, may, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500,000 or be imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.
(d) Any person who knowingly makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation in any report required by this chapter may, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $10,000 or be imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
§ 1010.850
Enforcement authority with respect to transportation of currency or monetary instruments.
(a) If a customs officer has reasonable cause to believe that there is a monetary instrument being transported without the filing of the report required by §§ 1010.340 and 1010.360 of this chapter, he may stop and search, without a search warrant, a vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or other conveyance, envelope or other container, or person entering or departing from the United
States with respect to which or whom the officer reasonably believes is transporting such instrument.
(b) If the Secretary has reason to believe that currency or monetary instruments are in the process of transportation and with respect to which a report required under § 1010.340 has not been filed or contains material omissions or misstatements, he may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a search warrant. Upon a showing of probable cause, the court may issue a warrant authorizing the search of any or all of the following:
(1) One or more designated persons.
(2) One or more designated or described places or premises.
(3) One or more designated or described letters, parcels, packages, or other physical objects.
(4) One or more designated or described vehicles. Any application for a search warrant pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by allegations of fact supporting the application.
(c) This section is not in derogation of the authority of the Secretary under any other law or regulation.

# Subpart I—Summons
§ 1010.911
General.
For any investigation for the purpose of civil enforcement of violations of the Bank Secrecy Act, or any regulation issued pursuant to the Bank Secrecy Act, the Secretary or delegate of the Secretary may summon a financial institution or an officer or employee of a financial institution (including a former officer or employee), or any person having possession, custody, or care of any of the records and reports required under the Bank Secrecy Act or this chapter to appear before the Secretary or his delegate, at a time and place named in the summons, and to give testimony, under oath, and be examined, and to produce such books, papers, records, or other data as may be relevant or material to such investigation.
§ 1010.912
Persons who may issue summons.
For purposes of this chapter, the following officials are hereby designated as delegates of the Secretary who are authorized to issue a summons under § 1010.911, solely for the purposes of civil enforcement of this chapter:
(a)
FinCEN.
The Director, FinCEN.
(b)
Internal Revenue Service.
Except with respect to § 1010.340 of this chapter, the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, or a delegate of either official, and, for the purposes of perfecting seizures and forfeitures related to civil enforcement of this chapter, the Chief (Criminal Investigation) or a delegate.
(c)
Customs and Border Protection.
With respect to § 1010.340 of this chapter, the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, the Assistant Commissioner (Enforcement), Regional Commissioners, Assistant Regional Commissioners (Enforcement), and Special Agents in Charge.
§ 1010.913
Contents of summons.
(a)
Summons for testimony.
Any summons issued under § 1010.911 of this chapter to compel the appearance and testimony of a person shall state:
(1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person before whom the appearance shall take place (who may be a person other than the persons who are authorized to issue such a summons under § 1010.912 of this chapter);
(2) The address to which the person summoned shall report for the appearance;
(3) The date and time of the appearance; and
(4) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who has issued the summons.
(b)
Summons of books, papers, records, or data.
Any summons issued under § 1010.911 of this chapter to require the production of books, papers, records, or other data shall describe the materials to be produced with reasonable specificity, and shall state:
(1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person to whom the materials shall be produced (who may be a person other than the persons who are authorized to issue such a summons under § 1010.912 of this chapter);
(2) The address at which the person summoned shall produce the materials, not to exceed 500 miles from any place
where the financial institution operates or conducts business in the United States;
(3) The specific manner of production, whether by personal delivery, by mail, or by messenger service;
(4) The date and time for production; and
(5) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who has issued the summons.
§ 1010.914
Service of summons.
(a)
Who may serve.
Any delegate of the Secretary authorized under § 1010.912 of this chapter to issue a summons, or any other person authorized by law to serve summonses or other process, is hereby authorized to serve a summons issued under this chapter.
(b)
Manner of service.
Service of a summons may be made—
(1) Upon any person, by registered mail, return receipt requested, directed to the person summoned;
(2) Upon a natural person by personal delivery; or
(3) Upon any other person by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or any other agent authorized to receive service of process.
(c)
Certificate of service.
The summons shall contain a certificate of service to be signed by the server of the summons. On the hearing of an application for enforcement of the summons, the certificate of service signed by the person serving the summons shall be evidence of the facts it states.
§ 1010.915
Examination of witnesses and records.
(a)
General.
Any delegate of the Secretary authorized under § 1010.912 of this chapter to issue a summons, or any officer or employee of the Treasury Department or any component thereof who is designated by that person (whether in the summons or otherwise), is hereby authorized to receive evidence and to examine witnesses pursuant to the summons. Any person authorized by law may administer any oaths and affirmations that may be required under this subpart.
(b)
Testimony taken under oath.
Testimony of any person under this chapter may be taken under oath, and shall be taken down in writing by the person examining the person summoned or shall be otherwise transcribed. After the testimony of a witness has been transcribed, a copy of that transcript shall be made available to the witness upon request, unless for good cause the person issuing the summons determines, under 5 U.S.C. 555, that a copy should not be provided. If such a determination has been made, the witness shall be limited to inspection of the official transcript of the testimony.
(c)
Disclosure of summons, testimony, or records.
Unless the Secretary or a delegate of the Secretary listed under § 1010.912(a) of this chapter so authorizes in writing, or it is otherwise required by law, no delegate of the Secretary listed under § 1010.912 (b) or (c) of this chapter or other officer or employee of the Treasury Department or any component thereof shall—
(1) Make public the name of any person to whom a summons has been issued under this chapter, or release any information to the public concerning that person or the issuance of a summons to that person prior to the time and date set for that person's appearance or production of records; or
(2) Disclose any testimony taken (including the name of the witness) or material presented pursuant to the summons, to any person other than an officer or employee of the Treasury Department or of any component thereof. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall preclude a delegate of the Secretary, or other officer or employee of the Treasury Department or any component thereof, from disclosing testimony taken, or material presented pursuant to a summons issued under this chapter, to any person in order to obtain necessary information for investigative purposes relating to the performance of official duties, or to any officer or employee of the Department of Justice in connection with a possible violation of Federal law.
§ 1010.916
Enforcement of summons.
In the case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a summons issued to, any person under this chapter, the Secretary or any delegate of the Secretary listed under § 1010.912 of this chapter shall refer the matter to the Attorney General or delegate of the Attorney
General (including any United States Attorney or Assistant United States Attorney, as appropriate), who may bring an action to compel compliance with the summons in any court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which the investigation which gave rise to the summons being or has been carried on, the jurisdiction in which the person summoned is a resident, or the jurisdiction in which the person summoned carries on business or may be found. When a referral is made by a delegate of the Secretary other than a delegate named in § 1010.912(a) of this chapter, prompt notification of the referral must be made to the Director, FinCEN. The court may issue an order requiring the person summoned to appear before the Secretary or delegate of the Secretary to produce books, papers, records, or other data, to give testimony as may be necessary in order to explain how such material was compiled and maintained, and to pay the costs of the proceeding. Any failure to obey the order of the court may be punished by the court as a contempt thereof. All process in any case under this section may be served in any judicial district in which such person may be found.
§ 1010.917
Payment of expenses.
Persons summoned under this chapter shall be paid the same fees and mileage for travel in the United States that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States. The United States shall not be liable for any other expense incurred in connection with the production of books, papers, records, or other data under this chapter.

# Subpart J—Miscellaneous
§ 1010.920
Access to records.
Except as provided in §§ 1020.410(b)(1), 1021.410(a), and 1023.410(a)(1), and except for the purpose of assuring compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this chapter, this chapter does not authorize the Secretary or any other person to inspect or review the records required to be maintained by this chapter. Other inspection, review or access to such records is governed by other applicable law.
§ 1010.930
Rewards for informants.
(a) If an individual provides original information which leads to a recovery of a criminal fine, civil penalty, or forfeiture, which exceeds $50,000, for a violation of the provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act or of this chapter, the Secretary may pay a reward to that individual.
(b) The Secretary shall determine the amount of the reward to be paid under this section; however, any reward paid may not be more than 25 percent of the net amount of the fine, penalty or forfeiture collected, or $150,000, whichever is less.
(c) An officer or employee of the United States, a State, or a local government who provides original information described in paragraph (a) in the performance of official duties is not eligible for a reward under this section.
§ 1010.940
Photographic or other reproductions of Government obligations.
Nothing herein contained shall require or authorize the reproduction of:
(a) Currency or other obligation or security of the United States as defined in 18 U.S.C. 8, or
(b) Any obligation or other security of any foreign government, the reproduction of which is prohibited by law.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]
§ 1010.950
Availability of information—general.
(a) The Secretary has the discretion to disclose information reported under this chapter, other than information reported pursuant to § 1010.380, for any reason consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act, including those set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. FinCEN may disclose information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 only as set forth in § 1010.955, and paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall not apply to the disclosure of such information.
(b) The Secretary may make any information set forth in any report received pursuant to this chapter available to another agency of the United States, to an agency of a state or local
government or to an agency of a foreign government, upon the request of the head of such department or agency made in writing and stating the particular information desired, the criminal, tax or regulatory purpose for which the information is sought, and the official need for the information.
(c) The Secretary may make any information set forth in any report received pursuant to this chapter available to the Congress, or any committee or subcommittee thereof, upon a written request stating the particular information desired, the criminal, tax or regulatory purpose for which the information is sought, and the official need for the information.
(d) The Secretary may make any information set forth in any report received pursuant to this chapter available to any other department or agency of the United States that is a member of the Intelligence Community, as defined by Executive Order 12333 or any succeeding executive order, upon the request of the head of such department or agency made in writing and stating the particular information desired, the national security matter with which the information is sought and the official need therefor.
(e) Any information made available under this section to other department or agencies of the United States, any state or local government, or any foreign government shall be received by them in confidence, and shall not be disclosed to any person except for official purposes relating to the investigation, proceeding or matter in connection with which the information is sought.
(f) The Secretary may require that a State or local government department or agency requesting information under paragraph (b) of this section pay fees to reimburse the Department of the Treasury for costs incidental to such disclosure. The amount of such fees will be set in accordance with the statute on fees for government services, 31 U.S.C. 9701.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 88808, Dec. 22, 2023]
§ 1010.955
Availability of beneficial ownership information reported under this part.
(a)
Prohibition on disclosure.
Except as authorized in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, information reported to FinCEN pursuant to § 1010.380 is confidential and shall not be disclosed by any individual who receives such information as—
(1) An officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the United States;
(2) An officer, employee, contractor, or agent of any State, local, or Tribal agency; or
(3) A director, officer, employee, contractor, or agent of any financial institution.
(b)
Disclosure of information by FinCEN
—(1)
Disclosure to Federal agencies for use in furtherance of national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity.
Upon receipt of a request from a Federal agency engaged in national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in furtherance of such activity, FinCEN may disclose such information to such agency. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)—
(i) National security activity means activity pertaining to the national defense or foreign relations of the United States, as well as activity to protect against threats to the safety and security of the United States;
(ii) Intelligence activity means all activities conducted by elements of the United States Intelligence Community that are authorized pursuant to Executive Order 12333, as amended, or any succeeding executive order; and
(iii) Law enforcement activity means investigative and enforcement activities relating to civil or criminal violations of law. Such activity does not include the routine supervision or examination of a financial institution by a Federal regulatory agency with authority described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section.
(2)
Disclosure to State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies for use in criminal or civil investigations.
Upon receipt of a request from a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in a criminal or
civil investigation, FinCEN may disclose such information to such agency if a court of competent jurisdiction has authorized the agency to seek the information in a criminal or civil investigation. For purposes of this section—
(i) A court of competent jurisdiction is any court with jurisdiction over the investigation for which a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency requests information under this paragraph.
(ii) A State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency is an agency of a State, local, or Tribal government that is authorized by law to engage in the investigation or enforcement of civil or criminal violations of law.
(3)
Disclosure for use in furtherance of foreign national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity.
Upon receipt of a request for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 from a Federal agency on behalf of a law enforcement agency, prosecutor, or judge of another country, or on behalf of a foreign central authority or foreign competent authority (or like designation) under an applicable international treaty, agreement, or convention, FinCEN may disclose such information to such Federal agency for transmission to the foreign law enforcement agency, prosecutor, judge, foreign central authority, or foreign competent authority who initiated the request, provided that:
(i) The request is for assistance in a law enforcement investigation or prosecution, or for a national security or intelligence activity, that is authorized under the laws of the foreign country; and
(ii) The request is:
(A) Made under an international treaty, agreement, or convention; or
(B) Made, when no such treaty, agreement, or convention is available, as an official request by a law enforcement, judicial, or prosecutorial authority of a foreign country determined by FinCEN, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and in consultation with the Attorney General or other agencies as necessary and appropriate, to be a trusted foreign country.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), a national security activity authorized under the laws of a foreign country is an activity pertaining to the national defense or foreign relations of a country other than the United States, as well as activity to protect against threats to the safety and security of that country.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), an intelligence activity authorized under the laws of a foreign country is an activity conducted by a foreign government agency that is authorized under a foreign legal authority comparable to Executive Order 12333 that is applicable to the agency.
(4)
Disclosure to facilitate compliance with customer due diligence requirements
—(i)
Financial institutions.
Upon receipt of a request from a financial institution subject to customer due diligence requirements under applicable law for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in facilitating compliance with such requirements, FinCEN may disclose the information to the financial institution for that use, provided that the reporting company that reported the information to FinCEN consents to such disclosure. For purposes of this paragraph, customer due diligence requirements under applicable law mean any legal requirement or prohibition designed to counter money laundering or the financing of terrorism, or to safeguard the national security of the United States, to comply with which it is reasonably necessary for a financial institution to obtain or verify beneficial ownership information of a legal entity customer.
(ii)
Regulatory agencies.
Upon receipt of a request by a Federal functional regulator or other appropriate regulatory agency, FinCEN shall disclose to such agency any information disclosed to a financial institution pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section if the agency—
(A) Is authorized by law to assess, supervise, enforce, or otherwise determine the compliance of such financial institution with customer due diligence requirements under applicable law;
(B) Will use the information solely for the purpose of conducting the assessment, supervision, or authorized investigation or activity described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section; and
(C) Has entered into an agreement with FinCEN providing for appropriate protocols governing the safekeeping of the information.
(5)
Disclosure to officers or employees of the Department of the Treasury.
Consistent with procedures and safeguards established by the Secretary—
(i) Information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 shall be accessible for inspection or disclosure to officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury whose official duties the Secretary determines require such inspection or disclosure.
(ii) Officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury may obtain information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 for tax administration as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6103(b)(4).
(c)
Use of information
—(1)
Use of information by authorized recipients.
Except as permitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, any person who receives information disclosed by FinCEN under paragraph (b) of this section shall not further disclose such information to any other person, and shall use such information only for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was disclosed. A Federal agency that receives information pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall only use it to facilitate a response to a request for assistance pursuant to that paragraph.
(2)
Disclosure of information by authorized recipients.
(i) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a requesting agency who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section may disclose such information to another officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the same requesting agency for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was requested, consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i)(F) of this section, as applicable. Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the U.S. Department of the Treasury who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(5) of this section may disclose such information to another Treasury officer, employee, contractor, or agent for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was requested consistent with internal Treasury policies, procedures, orders or directives.
(ii) Any director, officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a financial institution who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section may disclose such information to another director, officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the same financial institution for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was requested, consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(iii) Any director, officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a financial institution that receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section may disclose such information to the financial institution's Federal functional regulator, a self-regulatory organization that is registered with or designated by a Federal functional regulator pursuant to Federal statute, or other appropriate regulatory agency, provided that the Federal functional regulator, self-regulatory organization, or other appropriate regulatory agency meets the requirements identified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. A financial institution may rely on a Federal functional regulator, self-regulatory organization, or other appropriate regulatory agency's representation that it meets the requirements.
(iv) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a Federal functional regulator that receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section may disclose such information to a self-regulatory organization that is registered with or designated by the Federal functional regulator, provided that the self-regulatory organization meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(v) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a Federal agency that receives information from FinCEN pursuant to a request made under paragraph (b)(3) of this section may disclose such information to the foreign person on whose behalf the Federal agency made the request.
(vi) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a Federal agency engaged in a national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity, or any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency, may disclose information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 that it has obtained directly from FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section to a court of competent jurisdiction or parties to a civil or criminal proceeding.
(vii) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a requesting agency who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(1), (b)(4)(ii), or (b)(5) of this section may disclose such information to any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the United States Department of Justice for purposes of making a referral to the Department of Justice or for use in litigation related to the activity for which the requesting agency requested the information.
(viii) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(2) of this section may disclose such information to any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of another State, local, or Tribal agency for purposes of making a referral for possible prosecution by that agency, or for use in litigation related to the activity for which the requesting agency requested the information.
(ix) A law enforcement agency, prosecutor, judge, foreign central authority, or foreign competent authority of another country that receives information from a Federal agency pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section may disclose and use such information consistent with the international treaty, agreement, or convention under which the request was made.
(x) FinCEN may by prior written authorization, or by protocols or guidance that FinCEN may issue, authorize persons to disclose information obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section in furtherance of a purpose or activity described in that paragraph.
(d)
Security and confidentiality requirements
—(1)
Security and confidentiality requirements for domestic agencies
—(i)
General requirements.
To receive information under paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section, a Federal, State, local, or Tribal agency shall satisfy the following requirements:
(A)
Agreement.
The agency shall enter into an agreement with FinCEN specifying the standards, procedures, and systems to be maintained by the agency, and any other requirements FinCEN may specify, to protect the security and confidentiality of such information. Agreements shall include, at a minimum, descriptions of the information to which an agency will have access, specific limitations on electronic access to that information, discretionary conditions of access, requirements and limitations related to re-disclosure, audit and inspection requirements, and security plans outlining requirements and standards for personnel security, physical security, and computer security.
(B)
Standards and procedures.
The agency shall establish standards and procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of such information, including procedures for training agency personnel on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of such information. The head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, shall approve these standards and procedures.
(C)
Initial report and certification.
The agency shall provide FinCEN a report that describes the standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section and that includes a certification by the head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, that the standards and procedures implement the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1).
(D)
Secure system for beneficial ownership information storage.
The agency shall, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, establish and maintain a secure system in which such information shall be stored.
(E)
Auditability.
The agency shall establish and maintain a permanent, auditable system of standardized records for requests pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, including, for
each request, the date of the request, the name of the individual who makes the request, the reason for the request, any disclosure of such information made by or to the requesting agency, and information or references to such information sufficient to reconstruct the reasons for the request.
(F)
Restrictions on personnel access to information.
The agency shall restrict access to information obtained from FinCEN pursuant to this section to personnel—
(
1
) Who are directly engaged in the activity for which the information was requested;
(
2
) Whose duties or responsibilities require such access;
(
3
) Who have received training pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section or have obtained the information requested directly from persons who both received such training and received the information directly from FinCEN;
(
4
) Who use appropriate identity verification mechanisms to obtain access to the information; and
(
5
) Who are authorized by agreement between the agency and FinCEN to access the information.
(G)
Audit requirements.
The agency shall:
(
1
) Conduct an annual audit to verify that information obtained from FinCEN pursuant to this section has been accessed and used appropriately and in accordance with the standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section;
(
2
) Provide the results of that audit to FinCEN upon request; and
(
3
) Cooperate with FinCEN's annual audit of the adherence of agencies to the requirements established under this paragraph to ensure that agencies are requesting and using the information obtained under this section appropriately, including by promptly providing any information FinCEN requests in support of its annual audit.
(H)
Semi-annual certification.
The head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, shall certify to FinCEN semi-annually that the agency's standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section are in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1). One of the semi-annual certifications may be included in the annual report required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(I) of this section.
(I)
Annual report on procedures.
The agency shall provide FinCEN a report annually that describes the standards and procedures that the agency uses to ensure the security and confidentiality of any information received pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii)
Requirements for requests for disclosure.
A Federal, State, local, or Tribal agency that makes a request under paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall satisfy the following requirements in connection with each request that it makes and in connection with all such information it receives.
(A)
Minimization.
The requesting agency shall limit, to the greatest extent practicable, the scope of such information it seeks, consistent with the agency's purposes for seeking such information.
(B)
Certifications and other requirements.
(
1
) The head of a Federal agency that makes a request under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or their designee shall make a written certification to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
(
i
) The agency is engaged in a national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity; and
(
ii
) The information requested is for use in furtherance of such activity, setting forth specific reasons why the requested information is relevant to the activity.
(
2
) The head of a State, local, or Tribal agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall submit to FinCEN a written certification, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
(
i
) A court of competent jurisdiction has authorized the agency to seek the information in a criminal or civil investigation; and
(
ii
) The requested information is relevant to the criminal or civil investigation, setting forth a description of the information the court has authorized the agency to seek.
(
3
) The head of a Federal agency, or their designee, who makes a request
under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section shall:
(
i
) Retain for the agency's records the request for information under the applicable international treaty, agreement, or convention;
(
ii
) Submit to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe: the name, title, agency, and country of the foreign person on whose behalf the Federal agency is making the request; the title of the international treaty, agreement, or convention under which the request is being made; and a certification that the requested information is for use in furtherance of a law enforcement investigation or prosecution, or for a national security or intelligence activity, that is authorized under the laws of the relevant foreign country.
(
4
) The head of a Federal agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall submit to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe:
(
i
) A written explanation of the specific purpose for which the foreign person is seeking information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, along with an accompanying certification that the information is for use in furtherance of a law enforcement investigation or prosecution, or for a national security or intelligence activity, that is authorized under the laws of the relevant foreign country and that the foreign person seeking information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) has been informed that the information may only be used only for the particular purpose or activity for which it is requested and must be handled consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(
ii
) The name, title, agency, and country of the foreign person on whose behalf the Federal agency is making the request; and
(
iii
) Any other information that FinCEN requests in order to evaluate the request.
(
5
) The head of a Federal functional regulator or other appropriate regulatory agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall make a written certification to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
(
i
) The agency is authorized by law to assess, supervise, enforce, or otherwise determine the compliance of a relevant financial institution with customer due diligence requirements under applicable law; and
(
ii
) The agency will use the information solely for the purpose of conducting the assessment, supervision, or authorized investigation or activity described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section.
(2)
Security and confidentiality requirements for financial institutions.
To receive information under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, a financial institution shall satisfy the following requirements:
(i)
Geographic restrictions on information.
The financial institution shall not make information obtained from FinCEN under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section available to persons physically located in, and shall not store such information in, any of the following jurisdictions:
(A) The People's Republic of China;
(B) The Russian Federation; or
(C) A jurisdiction:
(
1
) That is a state sponsor of terrorism, as determined by the U.S. Department of State;
(
2
) That is the subject of comprehensive financial and economic sanctions imposed by the Federal Government,
i.e.,
is a jurisdiction with a government whose property and interests in property within U.S. jurisdiction are blocked pursuant to U.S. sanctions authorities, or a jurisdiction subject to broad-based prohibitions on transactions by U.S. persons involving that jurisdiction, such as prohibitions on importing or exporting goods, services, or technology to the jurisdiction or dealing in goods or services originating from the jurisdiction, pursuant to U.S. sanctions authorities; or
(
3
) To which the Secretary has determined that allowing information obtained from FinCEN under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section to be made available would undermine the enforcement of the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section or the national security of the United States.
(ii)
Safeguards.
The financial institution shall develop and implement administrative, technical, and physical safeguards reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of such information. These shall include:
(A)
Information procedures.
The financial institution shall:
(
1
) Apply such information procedures as the institution has established to satisfy the requirements of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801
et seq.
), and applicable regulations issued thereunder, with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information, modified as needed to account for any unique requirements imposed under this section; or
(
2
) If the institution is not subject to section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, apply such information procedures with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information as are required, recommended, or authorized under applicable law and are at least as protective of the security and confidentiality of customer information as procedures that satisfy the standards of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
(B)
Notification of information demand.
The financial institution shall notify FinCEN within three business days of receipt of any foreign government subpoena or legal demand under which the financial institution would have to disclose any information the financial institution has received pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Consent to obtain information.
Before making a request for information regarding a reporting company under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the financial institution shall obtain and document the consent of the reporting company to request such information. The documentation of the reporting company's consent shall be maintained for 5 years after it is last relied upon in connection with a request for information under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(iv)
Certification.
For each request for information regarding a reporting company under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the financial institution shall make a certification to FinCEN in such form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe that the financial institution:
(A) Is requesting the information to facilitate its compliance with customer due diligence requirements under applicable law;
(B) Has obtained and documented the consent of the reporting company to request the information from FinCEN; and
(C) Has fulfilled all other requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(3)
Security and confidentiality requirements for foreign recipients of information.
(i) To receive information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, a foreign person on whose behalf a Federal agency made the request under that paragraph shall comply with all applicable handling, disclosure, and use requirements of the international treaty, agreement, or convention under which the request was made.
(ii) To receive information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, a foreign person on whose behalf a Federal agency made the request under that paragraph shall ensure that the following requirements are satisfied:
(A)
Standards and procedures.
A foreign person who receives information pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall establish standards and procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of such information, including procedures for training personnel who will have access to it on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of such information.
(B)
Secure system for beneficial ownership information storage.
Such information shall be maintained in a secure system that complies with the security standards the foreign person applies to the most sensitive unclassified information it handles.
(C)
Minimization.
To the greatest extent practicable, the scope of information sought shall be limited, consistent with the purposes for seeking such information.
(D)
Restrictions on personnel access to information.
Access to such information shall be limited to persons—
(
1
) Who are directly engaged in the activity described in paragraph (b)(3) of
this section for which the information was requested;
(
2
) Whose duties or responsibilities require such access; and
(
3
) Who have undergone training on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of information obtained pursuant to this section.
(e)
Administration of requests
—(1)
Form and manner of requests.
Requests for information under paragraph (b) of this section shall be submitted to FinCEN in such form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe.
(2)
Rejection of requests.
(i) FinCEN will reject a request under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and may reject any other request made pursuant to this section, if such request is not submitted in the form and manner prescribed by FinCEN.
(ii) FinCEN may reject any request, or otherwise decline to disclose any information in response to a request made under this section, if FinCEN, in its sole discretion, finds that, with respect to the request:
(A) The requester has failed to meet any requirement of this section;
(B) The information is being requested for an unlawful purpose; or
(C) Other good cause exists to deny the request.
(3)
Suspension of access.
(i) FinCEN may permanently debar or temporarily suspend, for any period of time, any individual requester or requesting entity from receiving or accessing information under paragraph (b) of this section if FinCEN, in its sole discretion, finds that:
(A) The individual requester or requesting entity has failed to meet any requirement of this section;
(B) The individual requester or requesting entity has requested information for an unlawful purpose; or
(C) Other good cause exists for such debarment or suspension.
(ii) FinCEN may reinstate the access of any individual requester or requesting entity that has been suspended or debarred under this paragraph (e)(3) upon satisfaction of any terms or conditions that FinCEN deems appropriate.
(f)
Violations
—(1)
Unauthorized disclosure or use.
Except as authorized by this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly disclose, or knowingly use, the beneficial ownership information obtained by the person, directly or indirectly, through:
(i) A report submitted to FinCEN under § 1010.380; or
(ii) A disclosure made by FinCEN pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, unauthorized use shall include accessing information without authorization, and shall include any violation of the requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section in connection with any access.
[88 FR 88808, Dec. 22, 2023]
§ 1010.960
Disclosure.
All reports required under this chapter and all records of such reports are specifically exempted from disclosure under section 552 of Title 5, United States Code.
§ 1010.970
Exceptions, exemptions, and reports.
(a) The Secretary, in his sole discretion, may by written order or authorization make exceptions to or grant exemptions from the requirements of this chapter. Such exceptions or exemptions may be conditional or unconditional, may apply to particular persons or to classes of persons, and may apply to particular transactions or classes of transactions. They shall, however, be applicable only as expressly Stated in the order of authorization, and they shall be revocable in the sole discretion of the Secretary.
(b) The Secretary shall have authority to further define all terms used herein.
(c)(1) The Secretary may, as an alternative to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements for casinos in §§ 1010.306(a), 1021.311, and 1021.410, grant exemptions to the casinos in any State whose regulatory system substantially meets the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this chapter.
(2) In order for a State regulatory system to qualify for an exemption on behalf of its casinos, the State must provide:
(i) That the Treasury Department be allowed to evaluate the effectiveness of
the State's regulatory system by periodic oversight review of that system;
(ii) That the reports required under the State's regulatory system be submitted to the Treasury Department within 15 days of receipt by the State;
(iii) That any records required to be maintained by the casinos relevant to any matter under this chapter and to which the State has access or maintains under its regulatory system be made available to the Treasury Department within 30 days of request;
(iv) That the Treasury Department be provided with periodic status reports on the State's compliance efforts and findings;
(v) That all but minor violations of the State requirements be reported to Treasury within 15 days of discovery; and
(vi) That the State will initiate compliance examinations of specific institutions at the request of Treasury within a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days where appropriate, and will provide reports of these examinations to Treasury within 15 days of completion or periodically during the course of the examination upon the request of the Secretary. If for any reason the State were not able to conduct an investigation within a reasonable time, the State will permit Treasury to conduct the investigation.
(3) Revocation of any exemption under this subsection shall be in the sole discretion of the Secretary.
§ 1010.980
Dollars as including foreign currency.
Wherever in this chapter an amount is Stated in dollars, it shall be deemed to mean also the equivalent amount in any foreign currency.

# PARTS 1011-1019 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1020

# PART 1020—RULES FOR BANKS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1020.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1020.200
General.
1020.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks.
1020.220
Customer identification program requirements for banks.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Banks
1020.300
General.
1020.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
1020.311
Filing obligations.
1020.312
Identification required.
1020.313
Aggregation.
1020.314
Structured transactions.
1020.315
Transactions of exempt persons.
1020.320
Reports by banks of suspicious transactions.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Banks
1020.400
General.
1020.410
Records to be made and retained by banks.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1020.500
General.
1020.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for banks.
1020.530
[Reserved]
1020.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Banks
1020.600
General.
1020.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
1020.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
1020.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
1020.640
[Reserved]
1020.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1020.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this Chapter for general definitions not noted herein.
To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this Section is what applies to part 1020. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Account.
For purposes of § 1020.220:
(1)
Account
means a formal banking relationship established to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions including a deposit account, a transaction or asset account, a credit account, or other extension of credit.
Account
also includes a relationship established to provide a safety deposit box or other safekeeping services, or cash management, custodian, and trust services.
(2)
Account
does not include:
(i) A product or service where a formal banking relationship is not established with a person, such as check-cashing, wire transfer, or sale of a check or money order;
(ii) An account that the bank acquires through an acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or
(iii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
(b)
Customer.
For the purposes of § 1020.220:
(1)
Customer
means:
(i) A person that opens a new account; and
(ii) An individual who opens a new account for:
(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity, such as a minor; or
(B) An entity that is not a legal person, such as a civic club.
(2)
Customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a State bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (b)(4); or
(iii) A person that has an existing account with the bank, provided that the bank has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 57137, Sept. 16, 2020

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1020.200
General.
Banks are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to banks.
§ 1020.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks.
(a)
Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks regulated by a Federal functional regulator, including banks, savings associations, and credit unions.
A bank regulated by a Federal functional regulator shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if it implements and maintains an anti-money laundering program that:
(1) Complies with the requirements of §§ 1010.610 and 1010.620 of this chapter;
(2) Includes, at a minimum:
(i) A system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance;
(ii) Independent testing for compliance to be conducted by bank personnel or by an outside party;
(iii) Designation of an individual or individuals responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance;
(iv) Training for appropriate personnel; and
(v) Appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(A) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(B) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph, customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230 of this chapter); and
(3) Complies with the regulation of its Federal functional regulator governing such programs.
(b)
Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks lacking a Federal
functional regulator including, but not limited to, private banks, non-federally insured credit unions, and certain trust companies.
A bank lacking a Federal functional regulator shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if the bank establishes and maintains a written anti-money laundering program that:
(1) Complies with the requirements of §§ 1010.610 and 1010.620 of this chapter; and
(2) Includes, at a minimum:
(i) A system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and the regulations set forth in 31 CFR Chapter X;
(ii) Independent testing for compliance to be conducted by bank personnel or by an outside party;
(iii) Designation of an individual or individuals responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance;
(iv) Training for appropriate personnel; and
(v) Appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(A) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(B) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph, customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230); and
(3) Is approved by the board of directors or, if the bank does not have a board of directors, an equivalent governing body within the bank. The bank shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its designee upon request.
[85 FR 57137, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 1020.220
Customer identification program requirements for banks.
(a)
Customer Identification Program: minimum requirements
—(1)
In general.
A bank required to have an anti-money laundering compliance program under the regulations implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), 12 U.S.C. 1818(s), or 12 U.S.C. 1786(q)(1) must implement a written Customer Identification Program (CIP) appropriate for the bank's size and type of business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the anti-money laundering compliance program.
(2)
Identity verification procedures.
The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the bank to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. These procedures must be based on the bank's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained by the bank, the various methods of opening accounts provided by the bank, the various types of identifying information available, and the bank's size, location, and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
(i)
Customer information required
—(A)
In general.
The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify the identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, the bank must obtain, at a minimum, the following information from the customer prior to opening an account:
(
1
) Name;
(
2
) Date of birth, for an individual;
(
3
) Address, which shall be:
(
i
) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
(
ii
) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of next of kin or of another contact individual; or
(
iii
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), a principal place of business, local office, or other physical location; and
(
4
) Identification number, which shall be:
(
i
) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
(
ii
) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number; passport number and country of issuance; alien identification card number; or number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2)(
i

# )(A)(
4

# )(
ii

# ):
When opening an account for a foreign business or enterprise that does not have an identification number, the bank must request alternative government-issued documentation certifying the existence of the business or enterprise.
(B)
Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number.
Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening the account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
(C)
Credit card accounts.
In connection with a customer who opens a credit card account, a bank may obtain the identifying information about a customer required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) by acquiring it from a third-party source prior to extending credit to the customer.
(ii)
Customer verification.
The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of the customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time after the account is opened. The procedures must describe when the bank will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
(A)
Verification through documents.
For a bank relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents that the bank will use. These documents may include:
(
1
) For an individual, unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
(
2
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or trust instrument.
(B)
Verification through non-documentary methods.
For a bank relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that describe the non-documentary methods the bank will use.
(
1
) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; and obtaining a financial statement.
(
2
) The bank's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the bank is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the bank; and where the bank is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the bank will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
(C)
Additional verification for certain customers.
The CIP must address situations where, based on the bank's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the bank will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account, including signatories, in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the bank cannot verify the customer's true identity using the
verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(iii)
Lack of verification.
The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the bank cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
(A) When the bank should not open an account;
(B) The terms under which a customer may use an account while the bank attempts to verify the customer's identity;
(C) When the bank should close an account, after attempts to verify a customer's identity have failed; and
(D) When the bank should file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under the procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
(i)
Required records.
At a minimum, the record must include:
(A) All identifying information about a customer obtained under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) A description of any document that was relied on under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section noting the type of document, any identification number contained in the document, the place of issuance and, if any, the date of issuance and expiration date;
(C) A description of the methods and the results of any measures undertaken to verify the identity of the customer under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section; and
(D) A description of the resolution of any substantive discrepancy discovered when verifying the identifying information obtained.
(ii)
Retention of records.
The bank must retain the information in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed or, in the case of credit card accounts, five years after the account is closed or becomes dormant. The bank must retain the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made.
(4)
Comparison with government lists.
The CIP must include procedures for determining whether the customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the bank to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier, if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures must also require the bank to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
(5)(i)
Customer notice.
The CIP must include procedures for providing bank customers with adequate notice that the bank is requesting information to verify their identities.
(ii)
Adequate notice.
Notice is adequate if the bank generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides the notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a bank may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications, or use any other form of written or oral notice.
(iii)
Sample notice.
If appropriate, a bank may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:

# Important Information About Procedures for Opening a New Account
To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person who opens an account.
What this means for you: When you open an account, we will ask for your name, address, date of birth, and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver's license or other identifying documents.
(6)
Reliance on another financial institution.
The CIP may include procedures specifying when a bank will rely on the
performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the bank's CIP, with respect to any customer of the bank that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar formal banking or business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(i) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(ii) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and is regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(iii) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the bank that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it will perform (or its agent will perform) the specified requirements of the bank's CIP.
(b)
Exemptions.
The appropriate Federal functional regulator, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may, by order or regulation, exempt any bank or type of account from the requirements of this section. The Federal functional regulator and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act and with safe and sound banking, and may consider other appropriate factors. The Secretary will make these determinations for any bank or type of account that is not subject to the authority of a Federal functional regulator.
(c)
Other requirements unaffected.
Nothing in this section relieves a bank of its obligation to comply with any other provision in this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 57138, Sept. 16, 2020]

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Banks
§ 1020.300
General.
Banks are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to Subpart C of Part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to banks.
§ 1020.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
The reports of transactions in currency requirements for banks are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.
§ 1020.311
Filing obligations.
Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for banks.
§ 1020.312
Identification required.
Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by banks.
§ 1020.313
Aggregation.
Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for banks.
§ 1020.314
Structured transactions.
Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for banks.
§ 1020.315
Transactions of exempt persons.
(a)
General.
No bank is required to file a report otherwise required by § 1010.311 with respect to any transaction in currency between an exempt person and such bank, or, to the extent provided in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, between such exempt person and other banks affiliated with such bank. (A limitation on the exemption described in this paragraph (a) is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.)
(b)
Exempt person.
For purposes of this section, an exempt person is:
(1) A bank, to the extent of such bank's domestic operations;
(2) A department or agency of the United States, of any State, or of any political subdivision of any State;
(3) Any entity established under the laws of the United States, of any State, or of any political subdivision of any State, or under an interstate compact
between two or more States, that exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States or any such State or political subdivision;
(4) Any entity, other than a bank, whose common stock or analogous equity interests are listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange or whose common stock or analogous equity interests have been designated as a NASDAQ National Market Security listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market (except stock or interests listed under the separate “NASDAQ Capital Markets Companies” heading), provided that, for purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), a person that is a financial institution, other than a bank, is an exempt person only to the extent of its domestic operations;
(5) Any subsidiary, other than a bank, of any entity described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section (a “listed entity”) that is organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and at least 51 percent of whose common stock or analogous equity interest is owned by the listed entity, provided that, for purposes of this paragraph (b)(5), a person that is a financial institution, other than a bank, is an exempt person only to the extent of its domestic operations;
(6) To the extent of its domestic operations and only with respect to transactions conducted through its exemptible accounts, any other commercial enterprise (for purposes of this section, a “non-listed business”), other than an enterprise specified in paragraph (e)(8) of this section, that:
(i) Maintains a transaction account, as defined in paragraph (e)(9) of this section, at the bank for at least two months, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Frequently engages in transactions in currency with the bank in excess of $10,000; and
(iii) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or a State, or is registered as and eligible to do business within the United States or a State; or
(7) With respect solely to withdrawals for payroll purposes from existing exemptible accounts, any other person (for purposes of this section, a “payroll customer”) that:
(i) Maintains a transaction account, as defined in paragraph (e)(9) of this section, at the bank for at least two months, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Operates a firm that frequently withdraws more than $10,000 in order to pay its United States employees in currency; and
(iii) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or a State, or is registered as and eligible to do business within the United States or a State.
(c)
Designation of certain exempt persons
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a bank must designate an exempt person by filing FinCEN Form 110. Such designation must occur by the close of the 30-calendar day period beginning after the day of the first reportable transaction in currency with that person sought to be exempted from reporting under the terms of this section. The designation must be made separately by each bank that treats the customer as an exempt person, except as provided in paragraph (e)(6) of this section.
(2)
Special rules.
(i) A bank is not required to file a FinCEN Form 110 with respect to the transfer of currency to or from:
(A) Any of the twelve Federal Reserve Banks; or
(B) Any exempt person as described in paragraphs (b)(1) to (3) of this section.
(ii) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (b)(6)(i) and (b)(7)(i) of this section, and if the requirements under this section are otherwise satisfied, a bank may designate a non-listed business or a payroll customer, as described in paragraphs (b)(6) and (7) of this section, as an exempt person before the customer has maintained a transaction account at the bank for at least two months if the bank conducts and documents a risk-based assessment of the customer and forms a reasonable belief that the customer has a legitimate business purpose for conducting frequent transactions in currency.
(d)
Annual review.
At least once each year, a bank must review the eligibility of an exempt person described in
paragraphs (b)(4) to (7) of this section to determine whether such person remains eligible for an exemption. As part of its annual review, a bank must review the application of the monitoring system required to be maintained by paragraph (h)(2) of this section to each existing account of an exempt person described in paragraphs (b)(6) or (b)(7) of this section.
(e)
Operating rules
—(1)
General rule.
Subject to the specific rules of this section, a bank must take such steps to assure itself that a person is an exempt person (within the meaning of the applicable provision of paragraph (b) of this section), to document the basis for its conclusions, and document its compliance, with the terms of this section, that a reasonable and prudent bank would take and document to protect itself from loan or other fraud or loss based on misidentification of a person's status, and in the case of the monitoring system requirement set forth in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, such steps that a reasonable and prudent bank would take and document to identify suspicious transactions as required by paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2)
Governmental departments and agencies.
A bank may treat a person as a governmental department, agency, or entity if the name of such person reasonably indicates that it is described in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, or if such person is known generally in the community to be a State, the District of Columbia, a tribal government, a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or a political subdivision or a wholly-owned agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing. An entity generally exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision, for purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, only if its authorities include one or more of the powers to tax, to exercise the authority of eminent domain, or to exercise police powers with respect to matters within its jurisdiction. Examples of entities that exercise governmental authority include, but are not limited to, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
(3)
Stock exchange listings.
In determining whether a person is described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a bank may rely on any New York, American, or NASDAQ Stock Market listing published in a newspaper of general circulation, on any commonly accepted or published stock symbol guide, on any information contained in the Securities and Exchange Commission “EDGAR” System, or on any information contained on an Internet site or sites maintained by the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, or the NASDAQ.
(4)
Listed company subsidiaries.
In determining whether a person is described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, a bank may rely upon:
(i) Any reasonably authenticated corporate officer's certificate;
(ii) Any reasonably authenticated photocopy of Internal Revenue Service Form 851 (Affiliation Schedule) or the equivalent thereof for the appropriate tax year; or
(iii) A person's Annual Report or Form 10-K, as filed in each case with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(5)
Aggregated accounts.
In determining the qualification of a customer as a non-listed business or a payroll customer, a bank may treat all exemptible accounts of the customer as a single account. If a bank elects to treat all exemptible accounts of a customer as a single account, the bank must continue to treat such accounts consistently as a single account for purposes of determining the qualification of the customer as a non-listed business or payroll customer.
(6)
Affiliated banks.
The designation required by paragraph (c) of this section may be made by a parent bank holding company or one of its bank subsidiaries on behalf of all bank subsidiaries of the holding company, so long as the designation lists each bank subsidiary to which the designation shall apply.
(7)
Sole proprietorships.
A sole proprietorship may be treated as a non-listed business if it otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section, as applicable. In addition, a sole proprietorship may be treated as a payroll customer if it otherwise meets
the requirements of paragraph (b)(7) of this section, as applicable.
(8)
Ineligible businesses.
A business engaged primarily in one or more of the following activities may not be treated as a non-listed business for purposes of this section: Serving as financial institutions or agents of financial institutions of any type; purchase or sale to customers of motor vehicles of any kind, vessels, aircraft, farm equipment or mobile homes; the practice of law, accountancy, or medicine; auctioning of goods; chartering or operation of ships, buses, or aircraft; gaming of any kind (other than licensed parimutuel betting at race tracks); investment advisory services or investment banking services; real estate brokerage; pawn brokerage; title insurance and real estate closing; trade union activities; and any other activities that may be specified by FinCEN. A business that engages in multiple business activities may be treated as a non-listed business so long as no more than 50% of its gross revenues are derived from one or more of the ineligible business activities listed in this paragraph (e)(8).
(9)
Exemptible accounts of a non-listed business or payroll customer.
The exemptible accounts of a non-listed business or payroll customer include transaction accounts and money market deposit accounts. However, money market deposit accounts maintained other than in connection with a commercial enterprise are not exemptible accounts. A transaction account, for purposes of this section, is any account described in section 19(b)(1)(C) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C), and its implementing regulations (12 CFR part 204). A money market deposit account, for purposes of this section, is any interest-bearing account that is described as a money market deposit account in 12 CFR 204.2(d)(2).
(10)
Documentation.
The records maintained by a bank to document its compliance with and administration of the rules of this section shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of § 1010.430.
(f)
Limitation on exemption.
A transaction carried out by an exempt person as an agent for another person who is the beneficial owner of the funds that are the subject of a transaction in currency is not subject to the exemption from reporting contained in paragraph (a) of this section.
(g)
Limitation on liability.
(1) No bank shall be subject to penalty under this chapter for failure to file a report required by § 1010.311 with respect to a transaction in currency by an exempt person with respect to which the requirements of this section have been satisfied, unless the bank:
(i) Knowingly files false or incomplete information with respect to the transaction or the customer engaging in the transaction; or
(ii) Has reason to believe that the customer does not meet the criteria established by this section for treatment of the transactor as an exempt person or that the transaction is not a transaction of the exempt person.
(2) Subject to the specific terms of this section, and absent any specific knowledge of information indicating that a customer no longer meets the requirements of an exempt person, a bank satisfies the requirements of this section to the extent it continues to treat that customer as an exempt person until the completion of that customer's next required periodic review, which as required by paragraph (d) of this section for an exempt person described in paragraph (b)(4) to (7) of this section, shall occur no less than once each year.
(3) A bank that files a report with respect to a currency transaction by an exempt person rather than treating such person as exempt shall remain subject, with respect to each such report, to the rules for filing reports, and the penalties for filing false or incomplete reports that are applicable to reporting of transactions in currency by persons other than exempt persons.
(h)
Obligations to file suspicious activity reports and maintain system for monitoring transactions in currency.
(1) Nothing in this section relieves a bank of the obligation, or reduces in any way such bank's obligation, to file a report required by § 1020.320 with respect to any transaction, including any transaction in currency that a bank knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect is a transaction or attempted transaction that is described in § 1020.320(a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii), or relieves a bank of any
reporting or recordkeeping obligation imposed by this chapter (except the obligation to report transactions in currency pursuant to this chapter to the extent provided in this section). Thus, for example, a sharp increase from one year to the next in the gross total of currency transactions made by an exempt customer, or similarly anomalous transactions trends or patterns, may trigger the obligation of a bank under § 1020.320.
(2) Consistent with its annual review obligations under paragraph (d) of this section, a bank shall establish and maintain a monitoring system that is reasonably designed to detect, for each account of a non-listed business or payroll customer, those transactions in currency involving such account that would require a bank to file a suspicious transaction report. The statement in the preceding sentence with respect to accounts of non-listed business and payroll customers does not limit the obligation of banks generally to take the steps necessary to satisfy the terms of paragraph (h)(1) of this section and § 1020.320 with respect to all exempt persons.
(i)
Revocation.
Without any action on the part of the Department of the Treasury and subject to the limitation on liability contained in paragraph (g)(2) of this section:
(1) The status of an entity as an exempt person under paragraph (b)(4) of this section ceases once such entity ceases to be listed on the applicable stock exchange; and
(2) The status of a subsidiary as an exempt person under paragraph (b)(5) of this section ceases once such subsidiary ceases to have at least 51 per cent of its common stock or analogous equity interest owned by a listed entity.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1506-0012)
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 33640, June 7, 2012]
§ 1020.320
Reports by banks of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) Every bank shall file with the Treasury Department, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A bank may also file with the Treasury Department by using the Suspicious Activity Report specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through the bank, it involves or aggregates at least $5,000 in funds or other assets, and the bank knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that:
(i) The transaction involves funds derived from illegal activities or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activities (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) The transaction is designed to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(iii) The transaction has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the bank knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction.
(b)
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A bank is required to file a SAR no later than 30 calendar days after the date of initial detection by the bank of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR. If no
suspect was identified on the date of the detection of the incident requiring the filing, a bank may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect. In no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of initial detection of a reportable transaction. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as, for example, ongoing money laundering schemes, the bank shall immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(c)
Exceptions.
A bank is not required to file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities, or for lost, missing, counterfeit, or stolen securities with respect to which the bank files a report pursuant to the reporting requirements of 17 CFR 240.17f-1.
(d)
Retention of records.
A bank shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified, and maintained by the bank as such, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A bank shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the bank for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the bank to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(e)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by banks
—(i)
General rule.
No bank, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any bank, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a bank, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a bank, of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the bank for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the bank to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the bank complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
(
i
) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by a bank, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the bank, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the bank's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government
authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(f)
Limitation on liability.
A bank, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g)
Compliance.
Banks shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter. Such failure may also violate provisions of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10517, Feb. 25, 2011]

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Banks
§ 1020.400
General.
Banks are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to banks.
§ 1020.410
Records to be made and retained by banks.
(a) Each agent, agency, branch, or office located within the United States of a bank is subject to the requirements of this paragraph (a) with respect to a funds transfer in the amount of $3,000 or more, and is required to retain either the original or a copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1)
Recordkeeping requirements.
(i) For each payment order that it accepts as an originator's bank, a bank shall obtain and retain either the original or a copy, or electronic record of the following information relating to the payment order:
(A) The name and address of the originator;
(B) The amount of the payment order;
(C) The execution date of the payment order;
(D) Any payment instructions received from the originator with the payment order;
(E) The identity of the beneficiary's bank; and
(F) As many of the following items as are received with the payment order:
1
1
For funds transfers effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system, only one of the items is required to be retained, if received with the payment order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(
1
) The name and address of the beneficiary;
(
2
) The account number of the beneficiary; and
(
3
) Any other specific identifier of the beneficiary.
(ii) For each payment order that it accepts as an intermediary bank, a bank shall retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the payment order.
(iii) For each payment order that it accepts as a beneficiary's bank, a bank shall retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the payment order.
(2)
Originators other than established customers.
In the case of a payment order from an originator that is not an established customer, in addition to
obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section:
(i) If the payment order is made in person, prior to acceptance the originator's bank shall verify the identity of the person placing the payment order. If it accepts the payment order, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address, the type of identification reviewed, the number of the identification document (
e.g.,
driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the originator's bank has knowledge that the person placing the payment order is not the originator, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the originator's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(ii) If the payment order accepted by the originator's bank is not made in person, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of name and address of the person placing the payment order, as well as the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof, and a copy or record of the method of payment (
e.g.,
check or credit card transaction) for the funds transfer. If the originator's bank has knowledge that the person placing the payment order is not the originator, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the originator's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(3)
Beneficiaries other than established customers.
For each payment order that it accepts as a beneficiary's bank for a beneficiary that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section:
(i) If the proceeds are delivered in person to the beneficiary or its representative or agent, the beneficiary's bank shall verify the identity of the person receiving the proceeds and shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address, the type of identification reviewed, and the number of the identification document (
e.g.,
driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the beneficiary's bank has knowledge that the person receiving the proceeds is not the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the beneficiary's name and address, as well as the beneficiary's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person receiving the proceeds, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(ii) If the proceeds are delivered other than in person, the beneficiary's bank shall retain a copy of the check or other instrument used to effect payment, or the information contained thereon, as well as the name and address of the person to which it was sent.
(4)
Retrievability.
The information that an originator's bank must retain under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(2) of this section shall be retrievable by the originator's bank by reference to the name of the originator. If the originator is an established customer of the originator's bank and has an account used for funds transfers, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. The information that a beneficiary's bank must retain under paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (a)(3) of this section shall be retrievable by the beneficiary's bank by reference to the
name of the beneficiary. If the beneficiary is an established customer of the beneficiary's bank and has an account used for funds transfers, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. This information need not be retained in any particular manner, so long as the bank is able to retrieve the information required by this paragraph, either by accessing funds transfer records directly or through reference to some other record maintained by the bank.
(5)
Verification.
Where verification is required under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, a bank shall verify a person's identity by examination of a document (other than a bank signature card), preferably one that contains the person's name, address, and photograph, that is normally acceptable by financial institutions as a means of identification when cashing checks for persons other than established customers. Verification of the identity of an individual who indicates that he or she is an alien or is not a resident of the United States may be made by passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence (
e.g.,
a foreign driver's license with indication of home address).
(6)
Exceptions.
The following funds transfers are not subject to the requirements of this section:
(i) Funds transfers where the originator and beneficiary are any of the following:
(A) A bank;
(B) A wholly owned domestic subsidiary of a bank chartered in the United States;
(C) A broker or dealer in securities;
(D) A wholly owned domestic subsidiary of a broker or dealer in securities;
(E) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker in commodities;
(F) A wholly owned domestic subsidiary of a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker in commodities;
(G) The United States;
(H) A state or local government;
(I) A Federal, State or local government agency or instrumentality; or
(J) A mutual fund; and
(ii) Funds transfers where both the originator and the beneficiary are the same person and the originator's bank and the beneficiary's bank are the same bank.
(b)(1) With respect to each certificate of deposit sold or redeemed after May 31, 1978, and before October 1, 2003, or each deposit or share account opened with a bank after June 30, 1972, and before October 1, 2003, a bank shall, within 30 days from the date such a transaction occurs or an account is opened, secure and maintain a record of the taxpayer identification number of the customer involved; or where the account or certificate is in the names of two or more persons, the bank shall secure the taxpayer identification number of a person having a financial interest in the certificate or account. In the event that a bank has been unable to secure, within the 30-day period specified, the required identification, it shall nevertheless not be deemed to be in violation of this section if it has made a reasonable effort to secure such identification, and it maintains a list containing the names, addresses, and account numbers of those persons from whom it has been unable to secure such identification, and makes the names, addresses, and account numbers of those persons available to the Secretary as directed by him. A bank acting as an agent for another person in the purchase or redemption of a certificate of deposit issued by another bank is responsible for obtaining and recording the required taxpayer identification, as well as for maintaining the records referred to in paragraphs (c)(11) and (12) of this section. The issuing bank can satisfy the recordkeeping requirement by recording the name and address of the agent together with a description of the instrument and the date of the transaction. Where a person is a non-resident alien, the bank shall also record the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity.
(2) The 30-day period provided for in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be extended where the person opening the account has applied for a taxpayer identification or social security number on Form SS-4 or SS-5, until such
time as the person maintaining the account has had a reasonable opportunity to secure such number and furnish it to the bank.
(3) A taxpayer identification number required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section need not be secured for accounts or transactions with the following:
(i) Agencies and instrumentalities of Federal, State, local or foreign governments;
(ii) Judges, public officials, or clerks of courts of record as custodians of funds in controversy or under the control of the court;
(iii) Aliens who are ambassadors, ministers, career diplomatic or consular officers, or naval, military or other attachés of foreign embassies and legations, and for the members of their immediate families;
(iv) Aliens who are accredited representatives of international organizations which are entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions and immunities as an international organization under the International Organization Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288), and the members of their immediate families;
(v) Aliens temporarily residing in the United States for a period not to exceed 180 days;
(vi) Aliens not engaged in a trade or business in the United States who are attending a recognized college or university or any training program, supervised or conducted by any agency of the Federal Government;
(vii) Unincorporated subordinate units of a tax exempt central organization which are covered by a group exemption letter,
(viii) A person under 18 years of age with respect to an account opened as a part of a school thrift savings program, provided the annual interest is less than $10;
(ix) A person opening a Christmas club, vacation club and similar installment savings programs, provided the annual interest is less than $10; and
(x) Non-resident aliens who are not engaged in a trade or business in the United States.
(4) In instances described in paragraphs (b)(3)(viii) and (ix) of this section, the bank shall, within 15 days following the end of any calendar year in which the interest accrued in that year is $10 or more use its best effort to secure and maintain the appropriate taxpayer identification number or application form therefor.
(5) The rules and regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 shall determine what constitutes a taxpayer identification number and whose number shall be obtained in the case of an account maintained by one or more persons.
(c) Each bank shall, in addition, retain either the original or a copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) Each document granting signature authority over each deposit or share account, including any notations, if such are normally made, of specific identifying information verifying the identity of the signer (such as a driver's license number or credit card number);
(2) Each statement, ledger card or other record on each deposit or share account, showing each transaction in, or with respect to, that account;
(3) Each check, clean draft, or money order drawn on the bank or issued and payable by it, except those drawn for $100 or less or those drawn on accounts which can be expected to have drawn on them an average of at least 100 checks per month over the calendar year or on each occasion on which such checks are issued, and which are:
(i) Dividend checks,
(ii) Payroll checks,
(iii) Employee benefit checks,
(iv) Insurance claim checks,
(v) Medical benefit checks,
(vi) Checks drawn on government agency accounts,
(vii) Checks drawn by brokers or dealers in securities,
(viii) Checks drawn on fiduciary accounts,
(ix) Checks drawn on other financial institutions, or
(x) Pension or annuity checks;
(4) Each item in excess of $100 (other than bank charges or periodic charges made pursuant to agreement with the customer), comprising a debit to a customer's deposit or share account, not
required to be kept, and not specifically exempted, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section;
(5) Each item, including checks, drafts, or transfers of credit, of more than $10,000 remitted or transferred to a person, account or place outside the United States;
(6) A record of each remittance or transfer of funds, or of currency, other monetary instruments, checks, investment securities, or credit, of more than $10,000 to a person, account or place outside the United States;
(7) Each check or draft in an amount in excess of $10,000 drawn on or issued by a foreign bank which the domestic bank has paid or presented to a nonbank drawee for payment;
(8) Each item, including checks, drafts or transfers of credit, of more than $10,000 received directly and not through a domestic financial institution, by letter, cable or any other means, from a bank, broker or dealer in foreign exchange outside the United States;
(9) A record of each receipt of currency, other monetary instruments, investment securities or checks, and of each transfer of funds or credit, of more than $10,000 received on any one occasion directly and not through a domestic financial institution, from a bank, broker or dealer in foreign exchange outside the United States; and
(10) Records prepared or received by a bank in the ordinary course of business, which would be needed to reconstruct a transaction account and to trace a check in excess of $100 deposited in such account through its domestic processing system or to supply a description of a deposited check in excess of $100. This subparagraph shall be applicable only with respect to demand deposits.
(11) A record containing the name, address, and taxpayer identification number as determined under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, if available, of the purchaser of each certificate of deposit, as well as a description of the instrument, a notation of the method of payment, and the date of the transaction.
(12) A record containing the name, address and taxpayer identification number as determined under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, if available, of any person presenting a certificate of deposit for payment, as well as a description of the instrument and the date of the transaction.
(13) Each deposit slip or credit ticket reflecting a transaction in excess of $100 or the equivalent record for direct deposit or other wire transfer deposit transactions. The slip or ticket shall record the amount of any currency involved.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1020.500
General.
Banks are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to banks.
§ 1020.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for banks.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1020.530
[Reserved]
§ 1020.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures
§ 1020.600
General.
Banks are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set
forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to banks.
§ 1020.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1020.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1020.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1020.640
[Reserved]
§ 1020.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.
(a) Refer to § 1010.670 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 1021

# PART 1021—RULES FOR CASINOS AND CARD CLUBS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1021.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1021.200
General.
1021.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for casinos.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Casinos and Card Clubs
1021.300
General.
1021.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
1021.311
Filing obligations.
1021.312
Identification required.
1021.313
Aggregation.
1021.314
Structured transactions.
1021.315
Exemptions.
1021.320
Reports by casinos of suspicious transactions.
1021.330
Exceptions to the reporting requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5331.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Casinos and Card Clubs
1021.400
General.
1021.410
Additional records to be made and retained by casinos.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity for Casinos and Card Clubs
1021.500
General.
1021.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for casinos and card clubs.
1021.530
[Reserved]
1021.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Casinos and Card Clubs
1021.600
General.
1021.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
1021.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
1021.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
1021.640
[Reserved]
1021.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; Termination of correspondent relationship.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1021.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1021. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Business year
means the annual accounting period, such as a calendar or fiscal year, by which a casino maintains its books and records for purposes of subtitle A of title 26 of the United States Code.
(b)
Casino account number
means any and all numbers by which a casino identifies a customer.
(c)
Customer
includes every person which is involved in a transaction to which this chapter applies with a casino, whether or not that person participates, or intends to participate, in the gaming activities offered by that casino.
(d)
Gaming day
means the normal business day of a casino. For a casino that offers 24 hour gaming, the term means that 24 hour period by which the casino keeps its books and records for business, accounting, and tax purposes. For purposes of the regulations contained in this chapter, each casino may have only one gaming day, common to all of its divisions.
(e)
Machine-readable
means capable of being read by an automated data processing system.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1021.200
General.
Casinos and card clubs are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.
§ 1021.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for casinos.
(a)
Requirements for casinos.
A casino shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if it implements and maintains a compliance program described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Compliance programs.
(1) Each casino shall develop and implement a written program reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the requirements set forth in 31 U.S.C. chapter 53, subchapter II and the regulations contained in this chapter.
(2) At a minimum, each compliance program shall provide for:
(i) A system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance;
(ii) Internal and/or external independent testing for compliance. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the money laundering and terrorist financing risks posed by the products and services provided by the casino;
(iii) Training of casino personnel, including training in the identification of unusual or suspicious transactions, to the extent that the reporting of such transactions is required by this chapter, by other applicable law or regulation, or by the casino's own administrative and compliance policies;
(iv) An individual or individuals to assure day-to-day compliance;
(v) Procedures for using all available information to determine:
(A) When required by this chapter, the name, address, social security number, and other information, and verification of the same, of a person;
(B) The occurrence of any transactions or patterns of transactions required to be reported pursuant to § 1021.320;
(C) Whether any record as described in subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter or subpart D of this part 1021 must be made and retained; and
(vi) For casinos that have automated data processing systems, the use of automated programs to aid in assuring compliance.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Casinos and Card Clubs
§ 1021.300
General.
Casinos and card clubs are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.
§ 1021.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
The reports of transactions in currency requirements for casinos are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.
§ 1021.311
Filing obligations.
Each casino shall file a report of each transaction in currency, involving either cash in or cash out, of more than $10,000.
(a) Transactions in currency involving cash in include, but are not limited to:
(1) Purchases of chips, tokens, and other gaming instruments;
(2) Front money deposits;
(3) Safekeeping deposits;
(4) Payments on any form of credit, including markers and counter checks;
(5) Bets of currency, including money plays;
(6) Currency received by a casino for transmittal of funds through wire transfer for a customer;
(7) Purchases of a casino's check;
(8) Exchanges of currency for currency, including foreign currency; and
(9) Bills inserted into electronic gaming devices.
(b) Transactions in currency involving cash out include, but are not limited to:
(1) Redemptions of chips, tokens, tickets, and other gaming instruments;
(2) Front money withdrawals;
(3) Safekeeping withdrawals;
(4) Advances on any form of credit, including markers and counter checks;
(5) Payments on bets;
(6) Payments by a casino to a customer based on receipt of funds through wire transfers;
(7) Cashing of checks or other negotiable instruments;
(8) Exchanges of currency for currency, including foreign currency;
(9) Travel and complimentary expenses and gaming incentives; and
(10) Payment for tournament, contests, and other promotions.
(c) Other provisions of this chapter notwithstanding, casinos are exempted from the reporting obligations found in this section and § 1021.313 for the following transactions in currency or currency transactions:
(1) Transactions between a casino and a dealer in foreign exchange, or between a casino and a check casher, as those terms are defined in § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter, so long as such transactions are conducted pursuant to a contractual or other arrangement with a casino covering the financial services in paragraphs (a)(8), (b)(7), and (b)(8) of this section;
(2) Cash out transactions to the extent the currency is won in a money play and is the same currency the customer wagered in the money play, or cash in transactions to the extent the currency is the same currency the customer previously wagered in a money play on the same table game without leaving the table;
(3) Bills inserted into electronic gaming devices in multiple transactions (unless a casino has knowledge pursuant to § 1021.313 in which case this exemption would not apply); and
(4) Jackpots from slot machines or video lottery terminals.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43597, July 21, 2011]
§ 1021.312
Identification required.
Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transaction in currency filed by casinos and card clubs.
§ 1021.313
Aggregation.
In the case of a casino, multiple currency transactions shall be treated as a single transaction if the casino has knowledge that they are by or on behalf of any person and result in either cash in or cash out totaling more than $10,000 during any gaming day. For purposes of this section, a casino shall be deemed to have the knowledge described in the preceding sentence, if: Any sole proprietor, partner, officer, director, or employee of the casino, acting within the scope of his or her employment, has knowledge that such multiple currency transactions have occurred, including knowledge from examining the books, records, logs, information retained on magnetic disk, tape or other machine-readable media, or in any manual system, and similar documents and information, which the casino maintains pursuant to any law or regulation or within the ordinary course of its business, and which contain information that such multiple currency transactions have occurred.
§ 1021.314
Structured transactions.
Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for casinos.
§ 1021.315
Exemptions.
Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file
reports of transactions in currency for casinos.
§ 1021.320
Reports by casinos of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) Every casino shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A casino may also file with FinCEN, by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a casino, and involves or aggregates at least $5,000 in funds or other assets, and the casino knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the casino knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the casino to facilitate criminal activity.
(b)
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the casino of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a casino may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as ongoing money laundering schemes, the casino shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Casinos wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c)
Exceptions.
A casino is not required to file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities.
(d)
Retention of records.
A casino shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the casino, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A casino shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the casino for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the casino complies with
the Bank Secrecy Act, or any tribal regulatory authority administering a tribal law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the tribal regulatory authority to ensure that the casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(e)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by casinos
—(i)
General rule.
No casino, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any casino, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a casino, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a casino, of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the casino for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any tribal regulatory authority administering a tribal law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the tribal regulatory authority to ensure that casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
(B) The sharing by a casino, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the casino, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the casino's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA). For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(f)
Limitation on liability.
A casino, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g)
Compliance.
Casinos shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure
to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(h)
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after March 25, 2003.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10517, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]
§ 1021.330
Exceptions to the reporting requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5331.
(a)
Receipt of currency by certain casinos having gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1,000,000
—
In general.
If a casino receives currency in excess of $10,000 and is required to report the receipt of such currency directly to the Treasury Department under § 1010.306, § 1021.311, or § 1021.313 and is subject to the recordkeeping requirements of § 1021.410, then the casino is not required to make a report with respect to the receipt of such currency under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
(b)
Casinos exempt under § 1010.970(c).
Pursuant to § 1010.970, the Secretary may exempt from the reporting and recordkeeping requirements under § 1010.306, § 1021.311, § 1021.313 or § 1021.410 casinos in any state whose regulatory system substantially meets the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this chapter. Such casinos shall not be required to report receipt of currency under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
(c)
Reporting of currency received in a non-gaming business.
Non-gaming businesses (such as shops, restaurants, entertainment, and hotels) at casino hotels and resorts are separate trades or businesses in which the receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 is reportable under section 5331 and these regulations. Thus, a casino exempt under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must report with respect to currency in excess of $10,000 received in its non-gaming businesses.
(d)
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section:

# Example.
A and B are casinos having gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1,000,000. C is a casino with gross annual gaming revenue of less than $1,000,000. Casino A receives $15,000 in currency from a customer with respect to a gaming transaction which the casino reports to the Treasury Department under §§ 1010.306, 1021.311, and 1021.313. Casino B receives $15,000 in currency from a customer in payment for accommodations provided to that customer at Casino B's hotel. Casino C receives $15,000 in currency from a customer with respect to a gaming transaction. Casino A is not required to report the transaction under 31 U.S.C. 5331 or this section because the exception for certain casinos provided in paragraph (a) of this section (“the casino exception”) applies. Casino B is required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section because the casino exception does not apply to the receipt of currency from a nongaming activity. Casino C is required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section because the casino exception does not apply to casinos having gross annual gaming revenue of $1,000,000 or less which do not have to report to the Treasury Department under §§ 1010.306, 1021.311, and 1021.313.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Casinos and Card Clubs
§ 1021.400
General.
Casinos and card clubs are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.
§ 1021.410
Additional records to be made and retained by casinos.
(a) With respect to each deposit of funds, account opened or line of credit extended after the effective date of these regulations, a casino shall, at the time the funds are deposited, the account is opened or credit is extended, secure and maintain a record of the name, permanent address, and social security number of the person involved. Where the deposit, account or credit is in the names of two or more persons, the casino shall secure the name, permanent address, and social security number of each person having a financial interest in the deposit, account or line of credit. The name and address of such person shall be verified by the casino at the time the deposit is made, account opened, or credit extended. The verification shall be made by examination of a document of the
type described in § 1010.312 of this chapter, and the specific identifying information shall be recorded in the manner described in § 1010.312 of this chapter. In the event that a casino has been unable to secure the required social security number, it shall not be deemed to be in violation of this section if it has made a reasonable effort to secure such number and it maintains a list containing the names and permanent addresses of those persons from who it has been unable to obtain social security numbers and makes the names and addresses of those persons available to the Secretary upon request. Where a person is a nonresident alien, the casino shall also record the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity.
(b) In addition, each casino shall retain either the original or a copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) A record of each receipt (including but not limited to funds for safekeeping or front money) of funds by the casino for the account (credit or deposit) of any person. The record shall include the name, permanent address and social security number of the person from whom the funds were received, as well as the date and amount of the funds received. If the person from whom the funds were received is a non-resident alien, the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify the person's identity shall be obtained and recorded;
(2) A record of each bookkeeping entry comprising a debit or credit to a customer's deposit account or credit account with the casino;
(3) Each statement, ledger card or other record of each deposit account or credit account with the casino, showing each transaction (including deposits, receipts, withdrawals, disbursements or transfers) in or with respect to, a customer's deposit account or credit account with the casino;
(4) A record of each extension of credit in excess of $2,500, the terms and conditions of such extension of credit, and repayments. The record shall include the customer's name, permanent address, social security number, and the date and amount of the transaction (including repayments). If the customer or person for whom the credit extended is a non-resident alien, his passport number or description of some other government document used to verify his identity shall be obtained and recorded;
(5) A record of each advice, request or instruction received or given by the casino for itself or another person with respect to a transaction involving a person, account or place outside the United States (including but not limited to communications by wire, letter, or telephone). If the transfer outside the United States is on behalf of a third party, the record shall include the third party's name, permanent address, social security number, signature, and the date and amount of the transaction. If the transfer is received from outside the United States on behalf of a third party, the record shall include the third party's name, permanent address, social security number, signature, and the date and amount of the transaction. If the person for whom the transaction is being made is a non-resident alien the record shall also include the person's name, his passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity;
(6) Records prepared or received by the casino in the ordinary course of business which would be needed to reconstruct a person's deposit account or credit account with the casino or to trace a check deposited with the casino through the casino's records to the bank of deposit;
(7) All records, documents or manuals required to be maintained by a casino under state and local laws or regulations, regulations of any governing Indian tribe or tribal government, or terms of (or any regulations issued under) any Tribal-State compacts entered into pursuant to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, with respect to the casino in question.
(8) All records which are prepared or used by a casino to monitor a customer's gaming activity.
(9)(i) A separate record containing a list of each transaction between the casino and its customers involving the following types of instruments having a face value of $3,000 or more:
(A) Personal checks (excluding instruments which evidence credit granted by a casino strictly for gaming, such as markers);
(B) Business checks (including casino checks);
(C) Official bank checks;
(D) Cashier's checks;
(E) Third-party checks;
(F) Promissory notes;
(G) Traveler's checks; and
(H) Money orders.
(ii) The list will contain the time, date, and amount of the transaction; the name and permanent address of the customer; the type of instrument; the name of the drawee or issuer of the instrument; all reference numbers (
e.g.,
casino account number, personal check number,
etc.
); and the name or casino license number of the casino employee who conducted the transaction. Applicable transactions will be placed on the list in the chronological order in which they occur.
(10) A copy of the compliance program described in § 1021.210(b).
(11) In the case of card clubs only, records of all currency transactions by customers, including without limitation, records in the form of currency transaction logs and multiple currency transaction logs, and records of all activity at cages or similar facilities, including, without limitation, cage control logs.
(c)(1) Casinos which input, store, or retain, in whole or in part, for any period of time, any record required to be maintained by § 1010.410 of this chapter or this section on computer disk, tape, or other machine-readable media shall retain the same on computer disk, tape, or machine-readable media.
(2) All indexes, books, programs, record layouts, manuals, formats, instructions, file descriptions, and similar materials which would enable a person readily to access and review the records that are described in § 1010.410 of this chapter and this section and that are input, stored, or retained on computer disk, tape, or other machine-readable media shall be retained for the period of time such records are required to be retained.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity for Casinos and Card Clubs
§ 1021.500
General.
Casinos and card clubs are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this Chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.
§ 1021.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for casinos and card clubs.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1021.530
[Reserved]
§ 1021.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this Chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Casinos and Card Clubs
§ 1021.600
General.
Casinos and card clubs are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.
§ 1021.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1021.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1021.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1021.640
[Reserved]
§ 1021.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.
(a) Refer to § 1010.670 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 1022

# PART 1022—RULES FOR MONEY SERVICES BUSINESSES

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1022.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1022.200
General.
1022.210
Anti-money laundering programs for money services businesses.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Money Services Businesses
1022.300
General.
1022.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
1022.311
Filing obligations.
1022.312
Identification required.
1022.313
Aggregation.
1022.314
Structured transactions.
1022.315
Exemptions.
1022.320
Reports by money services businesses of suspicious transactions.
1022.380
Registration of money services businesses.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Money Services Businesses
1022.400
General.
1022.410
Additional records to be made and retained by dealers in foreign exchange.
1022.420
Additional records to be maintained by providers and sellers of prepaid access.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1022.500
General.
1022.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for money services businesses.
1022.530
[Reserved]
1022.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Money Services Businesses
1022.600
General.
1022.610-1022.670
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat.307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1022.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1022.200
General.
Money services businesses are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.
§ 1022.210
Anti-money laundering programs for money services businesses.
(a) Each money services business, as defined by § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter, shall develop, implement, and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program. An effective anti-money laundering program is one that is reasonably designed to prevent the money services business from being used to facilitate money laundering
and the financing of terrorist activities.
(b) The program shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the location and size of, and the nature and volume of the financial services provided by, the money services business.
(c) The program shall be in writing, and a money services business shall make copies of the anti-money laundering program available for inspection to the Department of the Treasury upon request.
(d) At a minimum, the program shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to assure compliance with this chapter.
(i) Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented under this section shall include provisions for complying with the requirements of this chapter including, to the extent applicable to the money services business, requirements for:
(A) Verifying customer identification, including as set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section;
(B) Filing Reports;
(C) Creating and retaining records;
(D) Responding to law enforcement requests.
(ii) Money services businesses that have automated data processing systems should integrate their compliance procedures with such systems.
(iii) A person that is a money services business solely because it is an agent for another money services business as set forth in § 1022.380(a)(3), and the money services business for which it serves as agent, may by agreement allocate between them responsibility for development of policies, procedures, and internal controls required by this paragraph (d)(1). Each money services business shall remain solely responsible for implementation of the requirements set forth in this section, and nothing in this paragraph (d)(1) relieves any money services business from its obligation to establish and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program.
(iv) A money services business that is a provider or seller of prepaid access must establish procedures to verify the identity of a person who obtains prepaid access under a prepaid program and obtain identifying information concerning such a person, including name, date of birth, address, and identification number. Sellers of prepaid access must also establish procedures to verify the identity of a person who obtains prepaid access to funds that exceed $10,000 during any one day and obtain identifying information concerning such a person, including name, date of birth, address, and identification number. Providers of prepaid access must retain access to such identifying information for five years after the last use of the prepaid access device or vehicle; such information obtained by sellers of prepaid access must be retained for five years from the date of the sale of the prepaid access device or vehicle.
(2) Designate a person to assure day to day compliance with the program and this chapter. The responsibilities of such person shall include assuring that:
(i) The money services business properly files reports, and creates and retains records, in accordance with applicable requirements of this chapter;
(ii) The compliance program is updated as necessary to reflect current requirements of this chapter, and related guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury; and
(iii) The money services business provides appropriate training and education in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide education and/or training of appropriate personnel concerning their responsibilities under the program, including training in the detection of suspicious transactions to the extent that the money services business is required to report such transactions under this chapter.
(4) Provide for independent review to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the review shall be commensurate with the risk of the financial services provided by the money services business. Such review may be conducted by an officer or employee of the money services business so long as the reviewer is not the person designated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Compliance date.
A money services business must develop and implement
an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before the later of July 24, 2002, and the end of the 90-day period beginning on the day following the date the business is established.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43597, July 21, 2011; 76 FR 45419, July 29, 2011]

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Money Services Businesses
§ 1022.300
General.
Money services businesses are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.
§ 1022.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
The reports of transactions in currency requirements for money services businesses are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.
§ 1022.311
Filing obligations.
Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for money services businesses.
§ 1022.312
Identification required.
Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by money services businesses.
§ 1022.313
Aggregation.
Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for money services businesses.
§ 1022.314
Structured transactions.
Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for money services businesses.
§ 1022.315
Exemptions.
Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for money services businesses.
§ 1022.320
Reports by money services businesses of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) Every money services business described in § 1010.100(ff)(1), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) of this chapter, shall file with the Treasury Department, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. Any money services business may also file with the Treasury Department, by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a money services business, involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $2,000 (except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), and the money services business knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(iii) Serves no business or apparent lawful purpose, and the reporting money services business knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction.
(iv) Involves use of the money services business to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) To the extent that the identification of transactions required to be reported is derived from a review of clearance records or other similar records of money orders or traveler's checks that have been sold or processed, an issuer of money orders or traveler's checks shall only be required to report a transaction or pattern of transactions that involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000.
(4) The obligation to identify and properly and timely to report a suspicious transaction rests with each money services business involved in the transaction, provided that no more than one report is required to be filed by the money services businesses involved in a particular transaction (so long as the report filed contains all relevant facts). Whether, in addition to any liability on its own for failure to report, a money services business that issues the instrument or provides the funds transfer service involved in the transaction may be liable for the failure of another money services business involved in the transaction to report that transaction depends upon the nature of the contractual or other relationship between the businesses, and the legal effect of the facts and circumstances of the relationship and transaction involved, under general principles of the law of agency.
(b)
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report(“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed in a central location to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A money services business subject to this section is required to file each SAR no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the money services business of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as ongoing money laundering schemes, the money services business shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing a SAR. Money services businesses wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c)
Retention of records.
A money services business shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the money services business, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A money services business shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the money services business for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the money services business to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the money services business complies with the Bank Secrecy Act.
(d)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by money services businesses
—(i)
General rule.
No money services business, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any money services business, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would
reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a money services business, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a money services business, of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the money services business for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the money services business to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the money services business complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
(B) The sharing by a money services business, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the money services business, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the money services business's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e)
Limitation on liability.
A money services business, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f)
Compliance.
Money services businesses shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(g)
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after December 31, 2001.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 10518, Feb. 25, 2011; 76 FR 45420, July 29, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]
§ 1022.380
Registration of money services businesses.
(a)
Registration requirement
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, relating to agents, and except for sellers of prepaid access as defined in § 1010.100(ff)(7) of this chapter to the extent that they are not already agents, each money services business (whether or not licensed as a money services business by any State) must register with FinCEN. Each provider of prepaid access must identify each prepaid program for which it is the provider of prepaid access. Each money services business must, as part of its registration, maintain a list of its agents as required by 31 U.S.C. 5330 and this section. This section does not apply to the United
States Postal Service, to agencies of the United States, of any State, or of any political subdivision of a State.
(2)
Foreign-located money services business.
Each foreign-located person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized or licensed business concern, in the United States as a money services business shall designate the name and address of a person who resides in the United States and is authorized, and has agreed, to be an agent to accept service of legal process with respect to compliance with this chapter, and shall identify the address of the location within the United States for records pertaining to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(3)
Agents.
A person that is a money services business solely because that person serves as an agent of another money services business, see § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter, is not required to register under this section, but a money services business that engages in activities described in § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter both on its own behalf and as an agent for others must register under this section. For example, a supermarket corporation that acts as an agent for an issuer of money orders and performs no other services of a nature and value that would cause the corporation to be a money services business, is not required to register; the answer would be the same if the supermarket corporation served as an agent both of a money order issuer and of a money transmitter. However, registration would be required if the supermarket corporation, in addition to acting as an agent of an issuer of money orders, cashed checks or exchanged currencies (other than as an agent for another business) in an amount greater than $1,000 in currency or monetary or other instruments for any person on any day, in one or more transactions.
(4)
Agency status.
The determination whether a person is an agent depends on all the facts and circumstances.
(b)
Registration procedures
—(1)
In general.
(i) A money services business must be registered by filing such form as FinCEN may specify with FinCEN (or such other location as the form may specify). The information required by 31 U.S.C. 5330(b) and any other information required by the form must be reported in the manner and to the extent required by the form.
(ii) A branch office of a money services business is not required to file its own registration form. A money services business must, however, report information about its branch locations or offices as provided by the instructions to the registration form.
(iii) A money services business must retain a copy of any registration form filed under this section and any registration number that may be assigned to the business at a location in the United States and for the period specified in § 1010.430(d) of this Chapter.
(2)
Registration period.
A money services business must be registered for the initial registration period and each renewal period. The initial registration period is the two-calendar-year period beginning with the calendar year in which the money services business is first required to be registered. However, the initial registration period for a money services business required to register by December 31, 2001 (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section) is the two-calendar year period beginning 2002. Each two-calendar-year period following the initial registration period is a renewal period.
(3)
Due date.
The registration form for the initial registration period must be filed on or before the end of the 180-day period beginning on the day following the date the business is established. The registration form for a renewal period must be filed on or before the last day of the calendar year preceding the renewal period.
(4)
Events requiring re-registration.
If a money services business registered as such under the laws of any State experiences a change in ownership or control that requires the business to be re-registered under State law, the money services business must also be re-registered under this section. In addition, if there is a transfer of more than 10 percent of the voting power or equity interests of a money services business (other than a money services business that must report such transfer to the Securities and Exchange Commission), the money services business must be
re-registered under this section. Finally, if a money services business experiences a more than 50-per cent increase in the number of its agents during any registration period, the money services business must be re-registered under this section. The registration form must be filed not later than 180 days after such change in ownership, transfer of voting power or equity interests, or increase in agents. The calendar year in which the change, transfer, or increase occurs is treated as the first year of a new two-year registration period.
(c)
Persons required to file the registration form.
Under 31 U.S.C. 5330(a), any person who owns or controls a money services business is responsible for registering the business; however, only one registration form is required to be filed for each registration period. A person is treated as owning or controlling a money services business for purposes of filing the registration form only to the extent provided by the form. If more than one person owns or controls a money services business, the owning or controlling persons may enter into an agreement designating one of them to register the business. The failure of the designated person to register the money services business does not, however, relieve any of the other persons who own or control the business of liability for the failure to register the business. See paragraph (e) of this section, relating to consequences of the failure to comply with 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section.
(d)
List of agents
—(1)
In general.
A money services business must prepare and maintain a list of its agents. The initial list of agents must be prepared by January 1, 2002, and must be revised each January 1, for the immediately preceding 12 month period; for money services businesses established after December 31, 2001, the initial agent list must be prepared by the due date of the initial registration form and must be revised each January 1 for the immediately preceding 12-month period. The list is not filed with the registration form but must be maintained at the location in the United States reported on the registration form under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Upon request, a money services business must make its list of agents available to FinCEN and any other appropriate law enforcement agency (including, without limitation, the examination function of the Internal Revenue Service in its capacity as delegee of Bank Secrecy Act examination authority). Requests for information made pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be coordinated through FinCEN in the manner and to the extent determined by FinCEN. The original list of agents and any revised list must be retained for the period specified in § 1010.430(d) of this chapter.
(2)
Information included on the list of agents
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, a money services business must include the following information with respect to each agent on the list (including any revised list) of its agents—
(A) The name of the agent, including any trade names or doing-business-as names;
(B) The address of the agent, including street address, city, state, and ZIP code;
(C) The telephone number of the agent;
(D) The type of service or services (money orders, traveler's checks, check sales, check cashing, currency exchange, and money transmitting) the agent provides;
(E) A listing of the months in the 12 months immediately preceding the date of the most recent agent list in which the gross transaction amount of the agent with respect to financial products or services issued by the money services business maintaining the agent list exceeded $100,000. For this purpose, the money services gross transaction amount is the agent's gross amount (excluding fees and commissions) received from transactions of one or more businesses described in § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter;
(F) The name and address of any depository institution at which the agent maintains a transaction account (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C)) for all or part of the funds received in or for the financial products or services issued by the money services business maintaining the list, whether in the agent's or the business principal's name;
(G) The year in which the agent first became an agent of the money services business; and
(H) The number of branches or subagents the agent has.
(ii)
Special rules.
Information about agent volume must be current within 45 days of the due date of the agent list. The information described by paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(G) and (d)(2)(i)(H) of this section is not required to be included in an agent list with respect to any person that is an agent of the money services business maintaining the list before the first day of the month beginning after February 16, 2000 so long as the information described by paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(G) and (d)(2)(i)(H) of this section is made available upon the request of FinCEN and any other appropriate law enforcement agency (including, without limitation, the examination function of the Internal Revenue Service in its capacity as delegee of Bank Secrecy Act examination authority).
(e)
Consequences of failing to comply with 31 U.S.C. 5330 or the regulations thereunder.
It is unlawful to do business without complying with 31 U.S.C. 5330 and this section. A failure to comply with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section includes the filing of false or materially incomplete information in connection with the registration of a money services business. Any person who fails to comply with any requirement of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section shall be liable for a civil penalty of $5,000 for each violation. Each day a violation of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section continues constitutes a separate violation. In addition, under 31 U.S.C. 5320, the Secretary of the Treasury may bring a civil action to enjoin the violation. See 18 U.S.C. 1960 for a criminal penalty for failure to comply with the registration requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section.
(f)
Applicability date.
This section is applicable as of September 20, 1999. Registration of money services businesses under this section will not be required prior to December 31, 2001.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43597, July 21, 2011; 76 FR 45420, July 29, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Money Services Businesses
§ 1022.400
General.
Money services businesses are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart D of Part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.
§ 1022.410
Additional records to be made and retained by dealers in foreign exchange.
(a)(1) After July 7, 1987, each dealer in foreign exchange shall secure and maintain a record of the taxpayer identification number of each person for whom a transaction account is opened or a line of credit is extended within 30 days after such account is opened or credit line extended. Where a person is a non-resident alien, the dealer in foreign exchange shall also record the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity. Where the account or credit line is in the names of two or more persons, the dealer in foreign exchange shall secure the taxpayer identification number of a person having a financial interest in the account or credit line. In the event that a dealer in foreign exchange has been unable to secure the identification required within the 30-day period specified, it shall nevertheless not be deemed to be in violation of this section if:
(i) It has made a reasonable effort to secure such identification, and
(ii) It maintains a list containing the names, addresses, and account or credit line numbers of those persons from whom it has been unable to secure such identification, and makes the names, addresses, and account or credit line numbers of those persons available to the Secretary as directed by him.
(2) The 30-day period provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be extended where the person opening the account or credit line has applied for a taxpayer identification or social security number on Form SS-4 or SS-5,
until such time as the person maintaining the account or credit line has had a reasonable opportunity to secure such number and furnish it to the dealer in foreign exchange.
(3) A taxpayer identification number for an account or credit line required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section need not be secured in the following instances:
(i) Accounts for public funds opened by agencies and instrumentalities of Federal, state, local or foreign governments,
(ii) Accounts for aliens who are—
(A) Ambassadors, ministers, career diplomatic or consular officers, or
(B) Naval, military or other attaches of foreign embassies, and legations, and for members of their immediate families,
(iii) Accounts for aliens who are accredited representatives to international organizations which are entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288), and for the members of their immediate families,
(iv) Aliens temporarily residing in the United States for a period not to exceed 180 days,
(v) Aliens not engaged in a trade or business in the United States who are attending a recognized college or any training program, supervised or conducted by any agency of the Federal Government, and
(vi) Unincorporated subordinate units of a tax exempt central organization which are covered by a group exemption letter.
(b) Each dealer in foreign exchange shall retain either the original or a microfilm or other copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) Statements of accounts from banks, including paid checks, charges or other debit entry memoranda, deposit slips and other credit memoranda representing the entries reflected on such statements;
(2) Daily work records, including purchase and sales slips or other memoranda needed to identify and reconstruct currency transactions with customers and foreign banks;
(3) A record of each exchange of currency involving transactions in excess of $1000, including the name and address of the customer (and passport number or taxpayer identification number unless received by mail or common carrier) date and amount of the transaction and currency name, country, and total amount of each foreign currency;
(4) Signature cards or other documents evidencing signature authority over each deposit or security account, containing the name of the depositor, street address, taxpayer identification number (TIN) or employer identification number (EIN) and the signature of the depositor or of a person authorized to sign on the account (if customer accounts are maintained in a code name, a record of the actual owner of the account);
(5) Each item, including checks, drafts, or transfers of credit, of more than $10,000 remitted or transferred to a person, account or place outside the United States;
(6) A record of each receipt of currency, other monetary instruments, investment securities and checks, and of each transfer of funds or credit, or more than $10,000 received on any one occasion directly and not through a domestic financial institution, from any person, account or place outside the United States;
(7) Records prepared or received by a dealer in the ordinary course of business, that would be needed to reconstruct an account and trace a check in excess of $100 deposited in such account through its internal recordkeeping system to its depository institution, or to supply a description of a deposited check in excess of $100;
(8) A record maintaining the name, address and taxpayer identification number, if available, of any person presenting a certificate of deposit for payment, as well as a description of the instrument and date of transaction;
(9) A system of books and records that will enable the dealer in foreign exchange to prepare an accurate balance sheet and income statement.
(c) This section does not apply to banks that offer services in dealing or
changing currency to their customers as an adjunct to their regular service.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43597, July 21, 2011]
§ 1022.420
Additional records to be maintained by providers and sellers of prepaid access.
With respect to transactions relating to providers and sellers of prepaid access described in § 1010.100(ff)(4) and (7) that are subject to the requirements of this chapter, each provider of prepaid access shall maintain access to transactional records for a period of five years. The provider of prepaid access, as defined in § 1010.100(ff)(4), shall maintain access to transactional records generated in the ordinary course of business that would be needed to reconstruct prepaid access activation, loads, reloads, purchases, withdrawals, transfers, or other prepaid-related transactions.
[76 FR 45420, July 29, 2011]

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1022.500
General.
Money services businesses are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.
§ 1022.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for money services businesses.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1022.530
[Reserved]
§ 1022.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Money Services Businesses
§ 1022.600
General.
Money services businesses are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.
§§ 1022.610-1022.670
[Reserved]
Pt. 1023

# PART 1023—RULES FOR BROKERS OR DEALERS IN SECURITIES

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1023.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1023.200
General.
1023.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for brokers or dealers in securities.
1023.220
Customer identification programs for broker-dealers.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Brokers or Dealers in Securities
1023.300
General.
1023.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
1023.311
Filing obligations.
1023.312
Identification required.
1023.313
Aggregation.
1023.314
Structured transactions.
1023.315
Exemptions
1023.320
Reports by brokers or dealers in securities of suspicious transactions.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Brokers or Dealers in Securities
1023.400
General.
1023.410
Additional records to be made and retained by brokers or dealers in securities.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1023.500
General.
1023.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for brokers or dealers in securities.
1023.530
[Reserved]
1023.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Brokers or Dealers in Securities
1023.600
General.
1023.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
1023.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
1023.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
1023.640
[Reserved]
1023.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank account records; Termination of correspondent relationship.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 25, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1023.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1023. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Account.
For purposes of § 1023.220:
(1) Account means a formal relationship with a broker-dealer established to effect transactions in securities, including, but not limited to, the purchase or sale of securities and securities loaned and borrowed activity, and to hold securities or other assets for safekeeping or as collateral.
(2)
Account
does not include:
(i) An account that the broker-dealer acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or
(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
(b)
Broker-dealer
means a person registered or required to be registered as a broker or dealer with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11).
(c)
Commission
means, for the purposes of § 1023.220, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
(d)
Customer.
For purposes of § 1023.220:
(1)
Customer
means:
(i) A person that opens a new account; and
(ii) An individual who opens a new account for:
(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity; or
(B) An entity that is not a legal person.
(2)
Customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a state bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or
(iii) A person that has an existing account with the broker-dealer, provided the broker-dealer has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.
(e)
Financial institution
is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1023.200
General.
Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for brokers or dealers in securities.
A broker or dealer in securities shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if the broker-dealer implements and maintains a
written anti-money laundering program approved by senior management that:
(a) Complies with the requirements of §§ 1010.610 and 1010.620 of this chapter and any applicable regulation of its Federal functional regulator governing the establishment and implementation of anti-money laundering programs;
(b) Includes, at a minimum:
(1) The establishment and implementation of policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and the implementing regulations thereunder;
(2) Independent testing for compliance to be conducted by the broker-dealer's personnel or by a qualified outside party;
(3) Designation of an individual or individuals responsible for implementing and monitoring the operations and internal controls of the program;
(4) Ongoing training for appropriate persons; and
(5) Appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii), customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230 of this chapter); and
(c) Complies with the rules, regulations, or requirements of its self-regulatory organization governing such programs; provided that the rules, regulations, or requirements of the self-regulatory organization governing such programs have been made effective under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by the appropriate Federal functional regulator in consultation with FinCEN.
[81 FR 29457, May 11, 2016]
§ 1023.220
Customer identification programs for broker-dealers.
(a)
Customer identification program: minimum requirements
—(1)
In general.
A broker-dealer must establish, document, and maintain a written Customer Identification Program (“CIP”) appropriate for its size and business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the broker-dealer's anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
(2)
Identity verification procedures.
The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the broker-dealer to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the broker-dealer's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained by the broker-dealer, the various methods of opening accounts provided by the broker-dealer, the various types of identifying information available and the broker-dealer's size, location and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
(i)(A)
Customer information required.
The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the broker-dealer must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
(
1
) Name;
(
2
) Date of birth, for an individual;
(
3
) Address, which shall be:
(
i
) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
(
ii
) for an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of a next of kin or another contact individual; or
(
iii
) for a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
(
4
) Identification number, which shall be:
(
i
) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
(
ii
) for a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number, a passport number and country of issuance, an alien identification card number, or the number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2)(
i

# )(A)(
4

# )(
ii

# ):
When opening an account for a foreign business or enterprise that does not have an identification number, the broker-dealer must request alternative government-issued documentation certifying the existence of the business or enterprise.
(B)
Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number.
Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
(ii)
Customer verification.
The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of each customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time before or after the customer's account is opened. The procedures must describe when the broker-dealer will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods, as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
(A)
Verification through documents.
For a broker-dealer relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents the broker-dealer will use. These documents may include:
(
1
) For an individual, an unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
(
2
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or a trust instrument.
(B)
Verification through non-documentary methods.
For a broker-dealer relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the non-documentary methods the broker-dealer will use.
(
1
) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; or obtaining a financial statement.
(
2
) The broker-dealer's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the broker-dealer is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the broker-dealer; and where the broker-dealer is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the broker-dealer will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
(C)
Additional verification for certain customers.
The CIP must address situations where, based on the broker-dealer's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the broker-dealer will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account. This verification method applies only when the broker-dealer cannot verify the customer's true identity using the
verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(iii)
Lack of verification.
The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the broker-dealer cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
(A) When the broker-dealer should not open an account;
(B) The terms under which a customer may conduct transactions while the broker-dealer attempts to verify the customer's identity;
(C) When the broker-dealer should close an account after attempts to verify a customer's identity fail; and
(D) When the broker-dealer should file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
(i)
Required records.
At a minimum, the record must include:
(A) All identifying information about a customer obtained under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section,
(B) A description of any document that was relied on under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section noting the type of document, any identification number contained in the document, the place of issuance, and if any, the date of issuance and expiration date;
(C) A description of the methods and the results of any measures undertaken to verify the identity of a customer under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section; and
(D) A description of the resolution of each substantive discrepancy discovered when verifying the identifying information obtained.
(ii)
Retention of records.
The broker-dealer must retain the records made under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the account is closed and the records made under paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C) and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made. In all other respects, the records must be maintained pursuant to the provisions of 17 CFR 240.17a-4.
(4)
Comparison with government lists.
The CIP must include procedures for determining whether a customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the broker-dealer to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures also must require the broker-dealer to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
(5)(i)
Customer notice.
The CIP must include procedures for providing customers with adequate notice that the broker-dealer is requesting information to verify their identities.
(ii)
Adequate notice.
Notice is adequate if the broker-dealer generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides such notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a broker-dealer may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications or use any other form of oral or written notice.
(iii)
Sample notice.
If appropriate, a broker-dealer may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:

# Important Information About Procedures for Opening a New Account
To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person who opens an account.
What this means for you: When you open an account, we will ask for your name, address, date of birth and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver's license or other identifying documents.
(6)
Reliance on another financial institution.
The CIP may include procedures specifying when the broker-dealer will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the broker-dealer's CIP, with respect to any customer of the broker-dealer that is opening an account or has established an account or similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(i) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(ii) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), and regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(iii) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the broker-dealer that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it will perform (or its agent will perform) specified requirements of the broker-dealer's CIP.
(b)
Exemptions.
The Commission, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may by order or regulation exempt any broker-dealer that registers with the Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o or 15 U.S.C. 78o-4 or any type of account from the requirements of this section. The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Commission, may exempt any broker-dealer that registers with the Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o-5. In issuing such exemptions, the Commission and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act, and in the public interest, and may consider other necessary and appropriate factors.
(c)
Other requirements unaffected.
Nothing in this section relieves a broker-dealer of its obligation to comply with any other provision of this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Brokers or Dealers in Securities
§ 1023.300
General.
Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
The reports of transactions in currency requirements for brokers or dealers in securities are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.
§ 1023.311
Filing obligations.
Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.312
Identification required.
Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.313
Aggregation.
Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.314
Structured transactions.
Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.315
Exemptions.
Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.320
Reports by brokers or dealers in securities of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) Every broker or dealer in securities within the United States (for purposes of this section, a “broker-
dealer”) shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A broker-dealer may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve a broker-dealer from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission or a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) (as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)).
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a broker-dealer, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the broker-dealer knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the broker-dealer knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the broker-dealer to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) The obligation to identify and properly and timely to report a suspicious transaction rests with each broker-dealer involved in the transaction, provided that no more than one report is required to be filed by the broker-dealers involved in a particular transaction (so long as the report filed contains all relevant facts).
(b)
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting broker-dealer of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a broker-dealer may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the broker-dealer shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Broker-dealers wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section. The broker-dealer may also, but is not required to, contact the Securities and Exchange Commission to report in such situations.
(c)
Exceptions.
(1) A broker-dealer is not required to file a SAR to report:
(i) A robbery or burglary committed or attempted of the broker-dealer that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities, or for lost, missing, counterfeit, or stolen securities with respect to which the broker-dealer files a report pursuant to the reporting requirements of 17 CFR 240.17f-1;
(ii) A violation otherwise required to be reported under this section of any of the Federal securities laws or rules of an SRO by the broker-dealer or any of its officers, directors, employees, or other registered representatives, other than a violation of 17 CFR 240.17a-8 or 17 CFR 405.4, so long as such violation is appropriately reported to the SEC or an SRO.
(2) A broker-dealer may be required to demonstrate that it has relied on an exception in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and must maintain records of its determinations to do so for the period specified in paragraph (d) of this section. To the extent that a Form RE-3, Form U-4, or Form U-5 concerning the transaction is filed consistent with the SRO rules, a copy of that form will be a sufficient record for purposes of this paragraph (c)(2).
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph (c) the term “Federal securities laws” means the “securities laws,” as that term is defined in section 3(a)(47) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(47), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under such laws.
(d)
Retention of records.
A broker-dealer shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the broker-dealer, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A broker-dealer shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request; or to any SRO that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(e)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by brokers or dealers in securities.
(i)
General rule.
No broker-dealer, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any broker-dealer, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a broker-dealer, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a broker-dealer, of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or to any SRO that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Securities Exchange Commission; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
(
i
) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by a broker-dealer, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the broker-dealer, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the broker-dealer's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title
II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(3)
Prohibition on disclosures by Self-Regulatory Organizations.
Any self-regulatory organization registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR except as necessary to fulfill self-regulatory duties with the consent of the Securities Exchange Commission, in a manner consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “self-regulatory duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding.
(f)
Limitation on liability.
A broker-dealer, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g)
Compliance.
Broker-dealers shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(h)
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after December 30, 2002.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10519, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Brokers or Dealers in Securities
§ 1023.400
General.
Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.410
Additional records to be made and retained by brokers or dealers in securities.
(a)(1) With respect to each brokerage account opened with a broker or dealer in securities after June 30, 1972, and before October 1, 2003, by a person residing or doing business in the United States or a citizen of the United States, such broker or dealer shall within 30 days from the date such account is opened, secure and maintain a record of the taxpayer identification number of the person maintaining the account; or in the case of an account of one or more individuals, such broker or dealer shall secure and maintain a record of the social security number of an individual having a financial interest in that account. In the event that a broker or dealer has been unable to secure the identification required within the 30-day period specified, it shall nevertheless not be deemed to be in violation of this section if: It has made a reasonable effort to secure such identification, and it maintains a list containing the names, addresses, and account numbers of those persons from whom it has been unable to secure such identification, and makes the names, addresses, and account numbers of
those persons available to the Secretary as directed by him. Where a person is a non-resident alien, the broker or dealer in securities shall also record the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity.
(2) The 30-day period provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be extended where the person opening the account has applied for a taxpayer identification or social security number on Form SS-4 or SS-5, until such time as the person maintaining the account has had a reasonable opportunity to secure such number and furnish it to the broker or dealer.
(3) A taxpayer identification number for a deposit or share account required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section need not be secured in the following instances:
(i) Accounts for public funds opened by agencies and instrumentalities of Federal, state, local, or foreign governments,
(ii) Accounts for aliens who are ambassadors, ministers, career diplomatic or consular officers, or naval, military or other attaches of foreign embassies, and legations, and for the members of their immediate families,
(iii) Accounts for aliens who are accredited representatives to international organizations which are entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288), and for the members of their immediate families,
(iv) Aliens temporarily residing in the United States for a period not to exceed 180 days,
(v) Aliens not engaged in a trade or business in the United States who are attending a recognized college or university or any training program, supervised or conducted by any agency of the Federal Government, and
(vi) Unincorporated subordinate units of a tax exempt central organization which are covered by a group exemption letter.
(b) Every broker or dealer in securities shall, in addition, retain either the original or a microfilm or other copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) Each document granting signature or trading authority over each customer's account;
(2) Each record described in 17 CFR 240.17a-3(a)(1), (2), (3), (5), (6), (7), (8), and (9);
(3) A record of each remittance or transfer of funds, or of currency, checks, other monetary instruments, investment securities, or credit, of more than $10,000 to a person, account, or place, outside the United States;
(4) A record of each receipt of currency, other monetary instruments, checks, or investment securities and of each transfer of funds or credit, of more than $10,000 received on any one occasion directly and not through a domestic financial institution, from any person, account or place outside the United States.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1023.500
General.
Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for brokers or dealers in securities.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1023.530
[Reserved]
§ 1023.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Brokers or Dealers in Securities
§ 1023.600
General.
Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.
§ 1023.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1023.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1023.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1023.640
[Reserved]
§ 1023.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.
(a) Refer to § 1010.670 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 1024

# PART 1024—RULES FOR MUTUAL FUNDS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1024.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1024.200
General.
1024.210
Anti-money laundering programs for mutual funds.
1024.220
Customer identification programs for mutual funds.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Mutual Funds
1024.300
General.
1024.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
1024.311
Filing obligations.
1024.312
Identification required.
1024.313
Aggregation.
1024.314
Structured transactions.
1024.315
Exemptions
1024.320
Reports by mutual funds of suspicious transactions.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Mutual Funds
1024.400
General.
1024.410
Recordkeeping.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1024.500
General.
1024.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for mutual funds.
1024.530
[Reserved]
1024.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Mutual Funds
1024.600
General.
1024.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
1024.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
1024.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
1024.640-1024.670
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1024.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1024. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Account.
For purposes of § 1024.220:
(1)
Account
means any contractual or other business relationship between a person and a mutual fund established to effect transactions in securities issued by the mutual fund, including the purchase or sale of securities.
(2)
Account
does not include:
(i) An account that a mutual fund acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or
(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
(b)
Commission
means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
(c)
Customer.
For purposes of § 1024.220:
(1)
Customer
means:
(i) A person that opens a new account; and
(ii) An individual who opens a new account for:
(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity, such as a minor; or
(B) An entity that is not a legal person, such as a civic club.
(2)
Customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a State bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or
(iii) A person that has an existing account with the mutual fund, provided that the mutual fund has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.
(d)
Financial institution
is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1024.200
General.
Mutual funds are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.
§ 1024.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for mutual funds.
(a) Effective July 24, 2002, each mutual fund shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to prevent the mutual fund from being used for money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities and to achieve and monitor compliance with the applicable requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311,
et seq.
), and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury. Each mutual fund's anti-money laundering program must be approved in writing by its board of directors or trustees. A mutual fund shall make its anti-money laundering program available for inspection by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(b) The anti-money laundering program shall at a minimum:
(1) Establish and implement policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to prevent the mutual fund from being used for money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities and to achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and implementing regulations thereunder;
(2) Provide for independent testing for compliance to be conducted by the mutual fund's personnel or by a qualified outside party;
(3) Designate a person or persons responsible for implementing and monitoring the operations and internal controls of the program;
(4) Provide ongoing training for appropriate persons; and
(5) Implement appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii), customer information shall
include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230 of this chapter).
[81 FR 29457, May 11, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 45187, Sept. 28, 2017]
§ 1024.220
Customer identification programs for mutual funds.
(a)
Customer identification program: minimum requirements
—(1)
In general.
A mutual fund must implement a written Customer Identification Program (“CIP”) appropriate for its size and type of business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the mutual fund's anti-money laundering program required under the regulations implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
(2)
Identity verification procedures.
The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the mutual fund to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the mutual fund's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the manner in which accounts are opened, fund shares are distributed, and purchases, sales and exchanges are effected, the various types of accounts maintained by the mutual fund, the various types of identifying information available, and the mutual fund's customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
(i)
Customer information required
—(A)
In general.
The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify the identifying information that will be obtained with respect to each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, a mutual fund must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
(
1
) Name;
(
2
) Date of birth, for an individual;
(
3
) Address, which shall be:
(
i
) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
(
ii
) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of next of kin or of another contact individual; or
(
iii
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
(
4
) Identification number, which shall be:
(
i
) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
(
ii
) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: a taxpayer identification number; passport number and country of issuance; alien identification card number; or number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2)(
i

# )(A)(
4

# )(
ii

# ):
When opening an account for a foreign business or enterprise that does not have an identification number, the mutual fund must request alternative government-issued documentation certifying the existence of the business or enterprise.
(B)
Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number.
Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a person that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the person opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
(ii)
Customer verification.
The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of the customer, using the information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time after the account is opened. The procedures must describe when the mutual fund will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
(A)
Verification through documents.
For a mutual fund relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents
that the mutual fund will use. These documents may include:
(
1
) For an individual, unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
(
2
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or trust instrument.
(B)
Verification through non-documentary methods.
For a mutual fund relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that describe the non-documentary methods the mutual fund will use.
(
1
) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; and obtaining a financial statement.
(
2
) The mutual fund's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the mutual fund is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person; and where the mutual fund is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the mutual fund will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
(C)
Additional verification for certain customers.
The CIP must address situations where, based on the mutual fund's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the mutual fund will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account, including persons authorized to effect transactions in the shareholder of record's account, in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the mutual fund cannot verify the customer's true identity using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(iii)
Lack of verification.
The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the mutual fund cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
(A) When the mutual fund should not open an account;
(B) The terms under which a customer may use an account while the mutual fund attempts to verify the customer's identity;
(C) When the mutual fund should file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation; and
(D) When the mutual fund should close an account, after attempts to verify a customer's identity have failed.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under paragraph (a) of this section.
(i)
Required records.
At a minimum, the record must include:
(A) All identifying information about a customer obtained under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) A description of any document that was relied on under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section noting the type of document, any identification number contained in the document, the place of issuance, and if any, the date of issuance and expiration date;
(C) A description of the methods and the results of any measures undertaken to verify the identity of the customer under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section; and
(D) A description of the resolution of any substantive discrepancy discovered when verifying the identifying information obtained.
(ii)
Retention of records.
The mutual fund must retain the information in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed. The mutual fund must retain
the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made.
(4)
Comparison with government lists.
The CIP must include procedures for determining whether the customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by the Department of the Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the mutual fund to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier, if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures must also require the mutual fund to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
(5)(i)
Customer notice.
The CIP must include procedures for providing mutual fund customers with adequate notice that the mutual fund is requesting information to verify their identities.
(ii)
Adequate notice.
Notice is adequate if the mutual fund generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides the notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending on the manner in which the account is opened, a mutual fund may post a notice on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications, or use any other form of written or oral notice.
(iii)
Sample notice.
If appropriate, a mutual fund may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:

# Important Information About Procedures for Opening a New Account
To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person who opens an account.
What this means for you: When you open an account, we will ask for your name, address, date of birth, and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver's license or other identifying documents.
(6)
Reliance on other financial institutions.
The CIP may include procedures specifying when a mutual fund will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the mutual fund's CIP, with respect to any customer of the mutual fund that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar formal business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(i) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(ii) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and is regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(iii) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the mutual fund that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it (or its agent) will perform the specific requirements of the mutual fund's CIP.
(b)
Exemptions.
The Commission, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may, by order or regulation, exempt any mutual fund or type of account from the requirements of this section. The Commission and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act and is in the public interest, and may consider other appropriate factors.
(c)
Other requirements unaffected.
Nothing in this section relieves a mutual fund of its obligation to comply with any other provision in this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Mutual Funds
§ 1024.300
General.
Mutual funds are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.
§ 1024.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
The reports of transactions in currency requirements for mutual funds are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.
§ 1024.311
Filing obligations.
Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for mutual funds.
§ 1024.312
Identification required.
Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by mutual funds.
§ 1024.313
Aggregation.
Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for mutual funds.
§ 1024.314
Structured transactions.
Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for mutual funds.
§ 1024.315
Exemptions.
Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for mutual funds.
§ 1024.320
Reports by mutual funds of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) Every investment company (as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) (“Investment Company Act”) that is an open-end company (as defined in section 5 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) and that is registered, or is required to register, with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to that Act (for purposes of this section, a “mutual fund”), shall file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A mutual fund may also file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve a mutual fund from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a mutual fund, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the mutual fund knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the mutual fund knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the mutual fund to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) More than one mutual fund may have an obligation to report the same transaction under this section, and other financial institutions may have separate obligations to report suspicious activity with respect to the same transaction pursuant to other provisions of this chapter. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the mutual fund(s) and other financial institution(s) involved in the transaction, provided that the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the name of each financial institution and the words
“joint filing” in the narrative section, and each institution maintains a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(b)
Filing and notification procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
Form SAR shall be filed with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network in accordance with the instructions to the Form SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A Form SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting mutual fund of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a Form SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a mutual fund may delay filing a Form SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
(4)
Mandatory notification to law enforcement.
In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a mutual fund shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(5)
Voluntary notification to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Mutual funds wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a Form SAR if required by this section. The mutual fund may also, but is not required to, contact the Securities and Exchange Commission to report in such situations.
(c)
Retention of records.
A mutual fund shall maintain a copy of any Form SAR filed by the fund or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any Form SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the Form SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the mutual fund, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the Form SAR. The mutual fund shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the mutual fund for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(d)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by mutual funds
—(i)
General rule.
No mutual fund, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any mutual fund, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a mutual fund, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a mutual fund, of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the mutual fund for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited
to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(B) The sharing by a mutual fund, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the mutual fund, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the mutual fund's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e)
Limitation on liability.
A mutual fund, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f)
Compliance.
Mutual funds shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(g)
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after October 31, 2006.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10519, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Mutual Funds
§ 1024.400
General.
Mutual funds are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.
§ 1024.410
Recordkeeping.
Refer to § 1010.410 of this chapter.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1024.500
General.
Mutual funds are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.
§ 1024.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for mutual funds.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1024.530
[Reserved]
§ 1024.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Mutual Funds
§ 1024.600
General.
Mutual funds are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.
§ 1024.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1024.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1024.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§§ 1024.640-1024.670
[Reserved]
Pt. 1025

# PART 1025—RULES FOR INSURANCE COMPANIES

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1025.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1025.200
General.
1025.210
Anti-money laundering programs for insurance companies.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Insurance Companies
1025.300
General.
1025.310-1025.315
[Reserved]
1025.320
Reports by insurance companies of suspicious transactions.
1025.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Insurance Companies
1025.400
General.
1025.410
Recordkeeping.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1025.500
General.
1025.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for insurance companies.
1025.530
[Reserved]
1025.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Insurance Companies
1025.600-1025.670
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1025.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1025. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Annuity contract
means any agreement between the insurer and the contract owner whereby the insurer promises to pay out a fixed or variable income stream for a period of time.
(b)
Covered product
means:
(1) A permanent life insurance policy, other than a group life insurance policy;
(2) An annuity contract, other than a group annuity contract; or
(3) Any other insurance product with features of cash value or investment.
(c)
Group annuity contract
means a master contract providing annuities to a group of persons under a single contract.
(d)
Group life insurance policy
means any life insurance policy under which a
number of persons and their dependents, if appropriate, are insured under a single policy.
(e)
Insurance agent
means a sales and/or service representative of an insurance company. The term “insurance agent” encompasses any person that sells, markets, distributes, or services an insurance company's covered products, including, but not limited to, a person who represents only one insurance company, a person who represents more than one insurance company, and a bank or broker-dealer in securities that sells any covered product of an insurance company.
(f)
Insurance broker
means a person who, by acting as the customer's representative, arranges and/or services covered products on behalf of the customer.
(g)
Insurance company or insurer.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the term “insurance company” or “insurer” means any person engaged within the United States as a business in the issuing or underwriting of any covered product.
(2) The term “insurance company” or “insurer” does not include an insurance agent or insurance broker.
(h)
Permanent life insurance policy
means an agreement that contains a cash value or investment element and that obligates the insurer to indemnify or to confer a benefit upon the insured or beneficiary to the agreement contingent upon the death of the insured.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1025.200
General.
Insurance companies are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Insurance companies should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to insurance companies.
§ 1025.210
Anti-money laundering programs for insurance companies.
(a)
In general.
Not later than May 2, 2006, each insurance company shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program applicable to its covered products that is reasonably designed to prevent the insurance company from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. An insurance company shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Department of the Treasury, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or their designee upon request.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the insurance company's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its covered products. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by an insurance company under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this chapter, integrating the company's insurance agents and insurance brokers into its anti-money laundering program, and obtaining all relevant customer-related information necessary for an effective anti-money laundering program.
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively, including monitoring compliance by the company's insurance agents and insurance brokers with their obligations under the program;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary; and
(iii) Appropriate persons are educated and trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide for on-going training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program. An insurance company may satisfy this requirement with respect to its employees, insurance agents, and insurance brokers by directly training such persons or verifying that persons have received training by another insurance company or by a competent third party with respect to the covered products offered by the insurance company.
(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program, including testing to determine compliance of the company's insurance agents and insurance brokers with their obligations under the program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the insurance company's covered products. Such testing may be conducted by a third party or by any officer or employee of the insurance company, other than the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Anti-money laundering program requirements for insurance companies registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as broker-dealers in securities.
An insurance company that is registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a broker-dealer in securities shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this section for its broker-dealer activities to the extent that the company is required to establish and has established an anti-money laundering program pursuant to § 1023.210 of this chapter and complies with such program.
(d)
Compliance.
Compliance with this section shall be examined by the Department of the Treasury, through the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its delegees, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Insurance Companies
§ 1025.300
General.
Insurance companies are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Insurance companies should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to insurance companies.
§§ 1025.310-1025.315
[Reserved]
§ 1025.320
Reports by insurance companies of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) Each insurance company shall file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction involving a covered product that is relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. An insurance company may also file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but the reporting of which is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through an insurance company, and involves or aggregates at least $5,000 in funds or other assets, and the insurance company knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the insurance company knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the insurance company to facilitate criminal activity.
(3)(i) An insurance company is responsible for reporting suspicious transactions conducted through its insurance agents and insurance brokers. Accordingly, an insurance company shall establish and implement policies and procedures reasonably designed to obtain customer-related information necessary to detect suspicious activity from all relevant sources, including from its insurance agents and insurance brokers, and shall report suspicious activity based on such information.
(ii) Certain insurance agents may have a separate obligation to report suspicious activity pursuant to other provisions of this chapter. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the financial institutions involved in the transaction, as long as the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the names of both institutions and the words “joint filing” in the narrative section, and both institutions maintain a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(iii) An insurance company that issues variable insurance products funded by separate accounts that meet the definition of a mutual fund in § 1024.320(a)(1) of this chapter shall file reports of suspicious transactions pursuant to § 1024.320 of this chapter.
(b)
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the insurance company of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, an insurance company may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the insurance company shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Insurance companies wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c)
Exception.
An insurance company is not required to file a SAR to report the submission to it of false or fraudulent information to obtain a policy or make a claim, unless the company has reason to believe that the false or fraudulent submission relates to money laundering or terrorist financing.
(d)
Retention of records.
An insurance company shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the insurance company and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. When an insurance company has filed or is identified as a filer in a joint Suspicious Activity Report, the insurance company shall maintain a copy of such joint report (together with copies of any supporting documentation) for a period of five years from the date of filing. An insurance company shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the insurance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the insurance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(e)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For
purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by insurance companies
—(i)
General rule.
No insurance company, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any insurance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by an insurance company, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of an insurance company, of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the insurance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the insurance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
(B) The sharing by an insurance company, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the insurance company, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the insurance company's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(f)
Limitation on liability.
An insurance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g)
Compliance.
Insurance companies shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(h)
Suspicious transaction reporting requirements for insurance companies registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as broker-dealers in securities.
An insurance company that is registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a broker-dealer in securities shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this section for its broker-dealer activities to the extent that the company complies
with the reporting requirements applicable to such activities pursuant to § 1023.320 of this chapter.
(i)
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after May 2, 2006.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 10520, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]
§ 1025.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.
Refer to § 1010.330 of this chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by insurance companies.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Insurance Companies
§ 1025.400
General.
Insurance companies are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Insurance companies should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to insurance companies.
§ 1025.410
Recordkeeping.
Refer to § 1010.410.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1025.500
General.
Insurance companies are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Insurance companies should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to insurance companies.
§ 1025.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for insurance companies.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1025.530
[Reserved]
§ 1025.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Insurance Companies
§§ 1025.600-1025.670
[Reserved]
Pt. 1026

# PART 1026—RULES FOR FUTURES COMMISSION MERCHANTS AND INTRODUCING BROKERS IN COMMODITIES

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1026.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1026.200
General.
1026.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
1026.220
Customer identification program requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities
1026.300
General.
1026.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
1026.311
Filing obligations.
1026.312
Identification required.
1026.313
Aggregation.
1026.314
Structured transactions.
1026.315
Exemptions.
1026.320
Reports by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities of suspicious transactions.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities
1026.400
General.
1026.410
Recordkeeping.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1026.500
General.
1026.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
1026.530
[Reserved]
1026.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities
1026.600
General.
1026.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
1026.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
1026.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
1026.640
[Reserved]
1026.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1026.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1026. Unless otherwise indicated, for the purposes of this part:
(a)
Account.
For purposes of § 1026.220:
(1)
Account
means a formal relationship with a futures commission merchant, including, but not limited to, those established to effect transactions in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, options on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or options on a commodity.
(2)
Account
does not include:
(i) An account that the futures commission merchant acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or
(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
(b)
Commodity
means any good, article, service, right, or interest described in Section 1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(4)).
(c)
Contract of sale
means any sale, agreement of sale or agreement to sell as described in Section 1a(7) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(7)).
(d)
Customer.
For purposes of § 1026.220:
(1)
Customer
means:
(i) A person that opens a new account with a futures commission merchant; and
(ii) An individual who opens a new account with a futures commission merchant for:
(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity; or
(B) An entity that is not a legal person.
(2)
Customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a state bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or
(iii) A person that has an existing account, provided the futures commission merchant or introducing broker has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.
(3) When an account is introduced to a futures commission merchant by an introducing broker, the person or individual opening the account shall be deemed to be a
customer
of both the futures commission merchant and the introducing broker for the purposes of this section.
(e)
Financial institution
is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).
(f)
Futures commission merchant
means any person registered or required to be registered as a futures commission merchant with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) under
the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to Section 4f(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2)).
(g)
Introducing broker
means any person registered or required to be registered as an introducing broker with the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to Section 4f(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2)).
(h)
Option
means an agreement, contract or transaction described in Section 1a(26) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(26)).

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1026.200
General.
Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
§ 1026.210
Anti-money laundering program requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
A futures commission merchant and an introducing broker in commodities shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if the futures commission merchant or introducing broker in commodities implements and maintains a written anti-money laundering program approved by senior management that:
(a) Complies with the requirements of §§ 1010.610 and 1010.620 of this chapter and any applicable regulation of its Federal functional regulator governing the establishment and implementation of anti-money laundering programs;
(b) Includes, at a minimum:
(1) The establishment and implementation of policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to prevent the financial institution from being used for money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities and to achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and the implementing regulations thereunder;
(2) Independent testing for compliance to be conducted by the futures commission merchant or introducing broker in commodities' personnel or by a qualified outside party;
(3) Designation of an individual or individuals responsible for implementing and monitoring the operations and internal controls of the program;
(4) Ongoing training for appropriate persons;
(5) Appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii), customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230 of this chapter); and
(c) Complies with the rules, regulations, or requirements of its self-regulatory organization governing such programs, provided that the rules, regulations, or requirements of the self-regulatory organization governing such programs have been made effective under the Commodity Exchange Act by the appropriate Federal functional regulator in consultation with FinCEN.
[81 FR 29458, May 11, 2016]
§ 1026.220
Customer identification programs for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers.
(a)
Customer identification program: Minimum requirements
—(1)
In general.
Each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must implement a written Customer Identification Program (CIP) appropriate for its size and business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of each futures
commission merchant's and introducing broker's anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
(2)
Identity verification procedures.
The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable each futures commission merchant and introducing broker to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained, the various methods of opening accounts, the various types of identifying information available, and the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's size, location and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(i)(A)
Customer information required.
The CIP must include procedures for opening an account that specify identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
(
1
) Name;
(
2
) Date of birth, for an individual;
(
3
) Address, which shall be:
(
i
) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
(
ii
) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of a next of kin or another contact individual; or
(
iii
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
(
4
) Identification number, which shall be:
(
i
) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
(
ii
) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number, a passport number and country of issuance, an alien identification card number, or the number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2)(
i

# )(A)(
4

# )(
ii

# ):
When opening an account for a foreign business or enterprise that does not have an identification number, the futures commission merchant or introducing broker must request alternative government-issued documentation certifying the existence of the business or enterprise.
(B)
Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number.
Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
(ii)
Customer verification.
The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of each customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time before or after the customer's account is opened. The procedures must describe when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods, as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
(A)
Verification through documents.
For a futures commission merchant or introducing broker relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use. These documents may include:
(
1
) For an individual, an unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
(
2
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or a trust instrument.
(B)
Verification through non-documentary methods.
For a futures commission merchant or introducing broker relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the non-documentary methods the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use.
(
1
) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; or obtaining a financial statement.
(
2
) The futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the futures commission merchant or introducing broker; and where the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
(C)
Additional verification for certain customers.
The CIP must address situations where, based on the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker cannot verify the customer's true identity after using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(iii)
Lack of verification.
The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the futures commission merchant or introducing broker cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
(A) When an account should not be opened;
(B) The terms under which a customer may conduct transactions while the futures commission merchant or introducing broker attempts to verify the customer's identity;
(C) When an account should be closed after attempts to verify a customer's identity have failed; and
(D) When the futures commission merchant or introducing broker should file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
(i)
Required records.
At a minimum, the record must include:
(A) All identifying information about a customer obtained under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) A description of any document that was relied on under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section noting the type of document, any identification number contained in the document, the place of issuance, and if any, the date of issuance and expiration date;
(C) A description of the methods and the results of any measures undertaken to verify the identity of a customer under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section; and
(D) A description of the resolution of each substantive discrepancy discovered when verifying the identifying information obtained.
(ii)
Retention of records.
Each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must retain the records made
under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the account is closed and the records made under paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made. In all other respects, the records must be maintained pursuant to the provisions of 17 CFR 1.31.
(4)
Comparison with government lists.
The CIP must include procedures for determining whether a customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the futures commission merchant or introducing broker to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures also must require the futures commission merchant or introducing broker to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
(5)(i)
Customer notice.
The CIP must include procedures for providing customers with adequate notice that the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is requesting information to verify their identities.
(ii)
Adequate notice.
Notice is adequate if the futures commission merchant or introducing broker generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides such notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a futures commission merchant or introducing broker may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications or use any other form of written or oral notice.
(iii)
Sample notice.
If appropriate, a futures commission merchant or introducing broker may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:

# Important Information About Procedures for Opening a New Account
To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person who opens an account.
What this means for you: When you open an account, we will ask for your name, address, date of birth and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver's license or other identifying documents.
(6)
Reliance on another financial institution.
The CIP may include procedures specifying when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of its CIP, with respect to any customer of the futures commission merchant or introducing broker that is opening an account, or has established an account or similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(i) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(ii) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), and is regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(iii) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the futures commission merchant or introducing broker that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it will perform (or its agent will perform) specified requirements of the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's CIP.
(b)
Exemptions.
The CFTC, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may by order or regulation exempt any futures commission merchant or introducing broker that registers with the CFTC or any type of account from the requirements of this section. In issuing such exemptions, the CFTC and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act, and in the public interest, and may consider other necessary and appropriate factors.
(c)
Other requirements unaffected.
Nothing in this section relieves a futures commission merchant or introducing broker of its obligation to comply with any other provision of this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities
§ 1026.300
General.
Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
§ 1026.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
The reports of transactions in currency requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart
§ 1026.311
Filing obligations.
Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
[76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011]
§ 1026.312
Identification required.
Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
[76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011]
§ 1026.313
Aggregation.
Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
[76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011]
§ 1026.314
Structured transactions.
Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
[76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011]
§ 1026.315
Exemptions.
Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
§ 1026.320
Reports by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General
—(1) Every futures commission merchant (“FCM”) and introducing broker in commodities (“IB-C”) within the United States shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. An FCM or IB-C may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve an FCM or IB-C from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the CFTC or any registered futures association or registered entity as those terms are defined in the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”), 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1a(29).
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through an FCM or IB-C, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the FCM or IB-C knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern
of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the FCM or IB-C knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the FCM or IB-C to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) The obligation to identify and properly and timely to report a suspicious transaction rests with each FCM and IB-C involved in the transaction, provided that no more than one report is required to be filed by any of the FCMs or IB-Cs involved in a particular transaction, so long as the report filed contains all relevant facts.
(b)
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting FCM or IB-C of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, an FCM or IB-C may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the FCM or IB-C shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. FCMs and IB-Cs wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section. The FCM or IB-C may also, but is not required to, contact the CFTC to report in such situations.
(c)
Exceptions.
(1) An FCM or IB-C is not required to file a SAR to report—
(i) A robbery or burglary committed or attempted of the FCM or IB-C that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities;
(ii) A violation otherwise required to be reported under the CEA (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), the regulations of the CFTC (17 CFR chapter I), or the rules of any registered futures association or registered entity as those terms are defined in the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1a(29), by the FCM or IB-C or any of its officers, directors, employees, or associated persons, other than a violation of 17 CFR 42.2, as long as such violation is appropriately reported to the CFTC or a registered futures association or registered entity.
(2) An FCM or IB-C may be required to demonstrate that it has relied on an exception in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and must maintain records of its determinations to do so for the period specified in paragraph (d) of this section. To the extent that a Form 8-R, 8-T, U-5, or any other similar form concerning the transaction is filed consistent with CFTC, registered futures association, or registered entity rules, a copy of that form will be a sufficient record for the purposes of this paragraph (c)(2).
(d)
Retention of records.
An FCM or IB-C shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five
years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the FCM or IB-C, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. An FCM or IB-C shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the BSA, upon request; or to any registered futures association or registered entity (as defined in the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1(a)(29)) (collectively, a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”)) that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(e)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities
—(i)
General rule.
No FCM or IB-C, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any FCM or IB-C, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by an FCM or IB-C, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of an FCM or IB-C, of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the BSA; or to any SRO that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
(
i
) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by an FCM or IB-C, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the FCM or IB-C, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the FCM's or IB-C's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the BSA as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the BSA. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(3)
Prohibition on disclosures by Self-Regulatory Organizations.
Any self-regulatory organization registered with or designated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR except as necessary to fulfill self-regulatory duties
upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in a manner consistent with Title II of the BSA. For purposes of this section, “self-regulatory duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding.
(f)
Limitation on liability.
An FCM or IB-C, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g)
Compliance.
FCMs or IB-Cs shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(h)
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after May 18, 2004.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities
§ 1026.400
General.
Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
§ 1026.410
Recordkeeping.
Refer to § 1010.410 of this chapter.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1026.500
General.
Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
§ 1026.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1026.530
[Reserved]
§ 1026.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities
§ 1026.600
General.
Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and
cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
§ 1026.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1026.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1026.630
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.
(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1026.640
[Reserved]
§ 1026.670
Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.
(a) Refer to § 1010.670 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 1027

# PART 1027—RULES FOR DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS, PRECIOUS STONES, OR JEWELS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1027.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1027.200
General.
1027.210
Anti-money laundering programs for dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels
1027.300
General.
1027.310-1027.320
[Reserved]
1027.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels
1027.400
General.
1027.410
Recordkeeping.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1027.500
General.
1027.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.
1027.530
[Reserved]
1027.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels
1027.600-1027.670
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1027.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1027. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Covered goods
means:
(1) Jewels (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section);
(2) Precious metals (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section);
(3) Precious stones (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section); and
(4) Finished goods (including, but not limited to, jewelry, numismatic items, and antiques), that derive 50 percent or more of their value from jewels, precious metals, or precious stones contained in or attached to such finished goods;
(b)
Dealer.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the term “dealer” means a person engaged within the United States as a business in the purchase and sale of covered goods and who, during the prior calendar or tax year:
(i) Purchased more than $50,000 in covered goods; and
(ii) Received more than $50,000 in gross proceeds from the sale of covered goods.
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “dealer” does not include:
(i) A retailer (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section), unless the retailer, during the prior calendar or tax year, purchased more than $50,000 in covered goods from persons other than dealers or other retailers (such as members of the general public or foreign sources of supply); or
(ii) A person licensed or authorized under the laws of any State (or political subdivision thereof) to conduct business as a pawnbroker, but only to the extent such person is engaged in pawn transactions (including the sale of pawn loan collateral).
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the terms “purchase” and “sale” do not include a retail transaction in which a retailer or a dealer accepts from a customer covered goods, the value of which the retailer or dealer credits to the account of the customer, and the retailer or dealer does not provide funds to the customer in exchange for such covered goods.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section and § 1027.210(a), the terms “purchase” and “sale” do not include the purchase of jewels, precious metals, or precious stones that are incorporated into machinery or equipment to be used for industrial purposes, and the purchase and sale of such machinery or equipment.
(5) For purposes of applying the $50,000 thresholds in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2)(i) of this section to finished goods defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, only the value of jewels, precious metals, or precious stones contained in, or attached to, such goods shall be taken into account.
(c)
Jewel
means an organic substance with gem quality market-recognized beauty, rarity, and value, and includes pearl, amber, and coral.
(d)
Precious metal
means:
(1) Gold, iridium, osmium, palladium, platinum, rhodium, ruthenium, or silver, having a level of purity of 500 or more parts per thousand; and
(2) An alloy containing 500 or more parts per thousand, in the aggregate, of two or more of the metals listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e)
Precious stone
means a substance with gem quality market-recognized beauty, rarity, and value, and includes diamond, corundum (including rubies and sapphires), beryl (including emeralds and aquamarines), chrysoberyl, spinel, topaz, zircon, tourmaline, garnet, crystalline and cryptocrystalline quartz, olivine peridot, tanzanite, jadeite jade, nephrite jade, spodumene, feldspar, turquoise, lapis lazuli, and opal.
(f)
Retailer
means a person engaged within the United States in the business of sales primarily to the public of covered goods.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1027.200
General.
Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.
§ 1027.210
Anti-money laundering programs for dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.
(a)
Anti-money laundering program requirement.
(1) Each dealer shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to prevent the dealer from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities through the purchase and sale of covered goods. The program must be approved by senior management. A dealer shall make its anti-money laundering program available to the Department of Treasury through FinCEN or its designee upon request.
(2) To the extent that a retailer's purchases from persons other than dealers and other retailers exceeds the $50,000 threshold contained in § 1027.100(b)(2)(i), the anti-money laundering compliance program required of the retailer under this paragraph need only address such purchases.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the dealer's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its line(s) of business. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by a dealer under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311
et seq.
), and this chapter.
(i) For purposes of making the risk assessment required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a dealer shall take into account all relevant factors including, but not limited to:
(A) The type(s) of products the dealer buys and sells, as well as the nature of the dealer's customers, suppliers, distribution channels, and geographic locations;
(B) The extent to which the dealer engages in transactions other than with established customers or sources of supply, or other dealers subject to this rule; and
(C) Whether the dealer engages in transactions for which payment or account reconciliation is routed to or from accounts located in jurisdictions that have been identified by the Department of State as a sponsor of international terrorism under 22 U.S.C. 2371; designated as non-cooperative with international anti-money laundering principles or procedures by an intergovernmental group or organization of which the United States is a member and with which designation the United States representative or organization concurs; or designated by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5318A as warranting special measures due to money laundering concerns.
(ii) A dealer's program shall incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls to assist the dealer in identifying transactions that may involve use of the dealer to facilitate money laundering or terrorist financing, including provisions for making reasonable inquiries to determine whether a transaction involves money laundering or terrorist financing, and for refusing to consummate, withdrawing from, or terminating such transactions. Factors that may indicate a transaction is designed to involve use of the dealer to facilitate money laundering or terrorist financing include, but are not limited to:
(A) Unusual payment methods, such as the use of large amounts of cash, multiple or sequentially numbered money orders, traveler's checks, or cashier's checks, or payment from third parties;
(B) Unwillingness by a customer or supplier to provide complete or accurate contact information, financial references, or business affiliations;
(C) Attempts by a customer or supplier to maintain an unusual degree of secrecy with respect to the transaction, such as a request that normal business records not be kept;
(D) Purchases or sales that are unusual for the particular customer or supplier, or type of customer or supplier; and
(E) Purchases or sales that are not in conformity with standard industry practice.
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary to reflect changes in the risk assessment, requirements of this chapter, and further guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury; and
(iii) Appropriate personnel are trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide for on-going education and training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program.
(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with
the risk assessment conducted by the dealer in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Such testing may be conducted by an officer or employee of the dealer, so long as the tester is not the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or a person involved in the operation of the program.
(c)
Implementation date.
A dealer must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before the later of January 1, 2006, or six months after the date a dealer becomes subject to the requirements of this section.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels
§ 1027.300
General.
Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this Chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.
§§ 1027.310-1027.320
[Reserved]
§ 1027.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.
Refer to § 1010.330 of this chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels
§ 1027.400
General.
Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.
§ 1027.410
Recordkeeping.
Refer to § 1010.410 of this chapter.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1027.500
General.
Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels should also refer to Ssubpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.
§ 1027.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1027.530
[Reserved]
§ 1027.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels
§§ 1027.600-1027.670
[Reserved]
Pt. 1028

# PART 1028—RULES FOR OPERATORS OF CREDIT CARD SYSTEMS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1028.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1028.200
General.
1028.210
Anti-money laundering programs for operators of credit card systems.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Operators of Credit Card Systems
1028.300
General.
1028.310-1028.320
[Reserved]
1028.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Operators of Credit Card Systems
1028.400
General.
1028.410
Recordkeeping.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1028.500
General.
1028.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for operators of credit card systems.
1028.530
[Reserved]
1028.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Operators of Credit Card Systems
1028.600-1028.670
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.

# Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1028.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1028. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Acquiring institution
means a person authorized by the operator of a credit card system to contract, directly or indirectly, with merchants or other persons to process transactions, including cash advances, involving the operator's credit card.
(b)
Credit card
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(k). It includes charge cards as defined in 12 CFR 226.2(15).
(c)
Foreign bank
means any organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country; engages in the business of banking; is recognized as a bank by the bank supervisory or monetary authority of the country of its organization or the country of its principal banking operations; and receives deposits in the regular course of its business. For purposes of this definition:
(1) The term foreign bank includes a branch of a foreign bank in a territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(2) The term foreign bank does not include:
(i) A U.S. agency or branch of a foreign bank; and
(ii) An insured bank organized under the laws of a territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(d)
Issuing institution
means a person authorized by the operator of a credit card system to issue the operator's credit card.
(e)
Operator of a credit card system
means any person doing business in the United States that operates a system for clearing and settling transactions in which the operator's credit card, whether acting as a credit or debit card, is used to purchase goods or services or to obtain a cash advance. To fall within this definition, the operator
must also have authorized another person (whether located in the United States or not) to be an issuing or acquiring institution for the operator's credit card.
(f)
Operator's credit card
means a credit card capable of being used in the United States that:
(1) Has been issued by an issuing institution; and
(2) Can be used in the operator's credit card system.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1028.200
General.
Operators of credit card systems are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Operators of credit card systems should also refer to Subpart B of Part 1010 of this Chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to operators of credit card systems.
§ 1028.210
Anti-money laundering programs for operators of credit card systems.
(a)
Anti-money laundering program requirement.
Effective July 24, 2002, each operator of a credit card system shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to prevent the operator of a credit card system from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. Operators of credit card systems must make their anti-money laundering programs available to the Department of the Treasury or the appropriate Federal regulator for review.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the program must:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls designed to ensure the following:
(i) That the operator does not authorize, or maintain authorization for, any person to serve as an issuing or acquiring institution without the operator taking appropriate steps, based upon the operator's money laundering or terrorist financing risk assessment, to guard against that person issuing the operator's credit card or acquiring merchants who accept the operator's credit card in circumstances that facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities;
(ii) For purposes of making the risk assessment required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the following persons are presumed to pose a heightened risk of money laundering or terrorist financing when evaluating whether and under what circumstances to authorize, or to maintain authorization for, any such person to serve as an issuing or acquiring institution:
(A) A foreign shell bank that is not a regulated affiliate, as those terms are defined in § 1010.605(g) and (n) of this Chapter;
(B) A person appearing on the Specially Designated Nationals List issued by Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control;
(C) A person located in, or operating under a license issued by, a jurisdiction whose government has been identified by the Department of State as a sponsor of international terrorism under 22 U.S.C. 2371;
(D) A foreign bank operating under an offshore banking license, other than a branch of a foreign bank if such foreign bank has been found by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841,
et seq.
) or the International Banking Act (12 U.S.C. 3101,
et seq.
) to be subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by the relevant supervisors in that jurisdiction;
(E) A person located in, or operating under a license issued by, a jurisdiction that has been designated as noncooperative with international anti-money laundering principles or procedures by an intergovernmental group or organization of which the United States is a member, with which designation the United States representative to the group or organization concurs; and
(F) A person located in, or operating under a license issued by, a jurisdiction that has been designated by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5318A as warranting special measures due to money laundering concerns;
(iii) That the operator is in compliance with all applicable provisions of
subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this chapter;
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for assuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary to reflect changes in risk factors or the risk assessment, current requirements of this chapter, and further guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury; and
(iii) Appropriate personnel are trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(3) Provide for education and training of appropriate personnel concerning their responsibilities under the program; and
(4) Provide for an independent audit to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the audit shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the persons authorized to issue or accept the operator's credit card. Such audit may be conducted by an officer or employee of the operator, so long as the reviewer is not the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or a person involved in the operation of the program.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Operators of Credit Card Systems
§ 1028.300
General.
Operators of credit card systems are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Operators of credit card systems should also refer to Subpart C of Part 1010 of this Chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to operators of credit card systems.
§§ 1028.310-1028.320
[Reserved]
§ 1028.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.
Refer to § 1010.330 of this Chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by operators of credit card systems.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Operators of Credit Card Systems
§ 1028.400
General.
Operators of credit card systems are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Operators of credit card systems should also refer to Subpart D of Part 1010 of this Chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to operators of credit card systems.
§ 1028.410
Recordkeeping.
Refer to § 1010.410 of this Chapter.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1028.500
General.
Operators of credit card systems are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Operators of credit card systems should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to operators of credit card systems.
§ 1028.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for operators of credit card systems.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1028.530
[Reserved]
§ 1028.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Operators of Credit Card Systems
§§ 1028.600-1028.670
[Reserved]
Pt. 1029

# PART 1029—RULES FOR LOAN OR FINANCE COMPANIES

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1029.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1029.200
General
1029.210
Anti-money laundering programs for loan or finance companies.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Loan or Finance Companies
1029.300
General.
1029.310-1029.315
[Reserved]
1029.320
Reports by loan or finance companies of suspicious transactions.
1029.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Loan or Finance Companies
1029.400
General.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1029.500
General.
1029.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for loan or finance companies.
1029.530
[Reserved]
1029.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Loan or Finance Companies
1029.600-1029.670
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.

# Source:
77 FR 8157, Feb. 14, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1029.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this Chapter for general definitions not noted herein.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1029.200
General.
Loan or finance companies are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Loan or finance companies should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to loan or finance companies.
§ 1029.210
Anti-money laundering programs for loan or finance companies.
(a)
Anti-money laundering program requirements for loan or finance companies.
Each loan or finance company shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program that is reasonably designed to prevent the loan or finance company from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. A loan or finance company shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its designee upon request.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the loan or finance company's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its products and services. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by a loan or finance company under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this part, integrating the company's agents and brokers into its anti-money laundering program, and obtaining all relevant customer-related information necessary for an effective anti-money laundering program.
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively, including monitoring compliance by the company's agents and brokers with their obligations under the program;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary; and
(iii) Appropriate persons are educated and trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide for on-going training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program. A loan or finance company may satisfy this requirement with respect to its employees, agents, and brokers by directly training such persons or verifying that such persons have received training by a competent third party with respect to the products and services offered by the loan or finance company.
(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program, including testing to determine compliance of the company's agents and brokers with their obligations under the program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the company's products and services. Such testing may be conducted by a third party or by any officer or employee of the loan or finance company, other than the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Compliance.
Compliance with this section shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegates, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this part.
(d)
Compliance date.
A loan or finance company must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section by August 13, 2012.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Loan or Finance Companies
§ 1029.300
General.
Loan or finance companies are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Loan or finance companies should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to loan or finance companies.
§§ 1029.310-1029.315
[Reserved]
§ 1029.320
Reports by loan or finance companies of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) Every loan or finance company shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A loan or finance company may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a loan or finance company, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the loan or finance company knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this part or any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act, Public Law 91-508, as amended, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1829b, 12 U.S.C. 1951-1959, and 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5332;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the loan or finance company knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available
facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the loan or finance company to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) More than one loan or finance company may have an obligation to report the same transaction under this section, and other financial institutions may have separate obligations to report suspicious activity with respect to the same transaction pursuant to other provisions of this part. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the loan or finance company(s) and other financial institution(s) involved in the transaction, provided that the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the name of each financial institution involved in the transaction, the report complies with all instructions applicable to joint filings, and each institution maintains a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(b)
Filing and notification procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in accordance with the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting loan or finance company of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a loan or finance company may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
(4)
Mandatory notification to law enforcement.
In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a loan or finance company shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(5)
Voluntary notification to FinCEN.
Any loan or finance company wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c)
Retention of records.
A loan or finance company shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed by the loan or finance company or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the loan or finance company, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. The loan or finance company shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN, or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the loan or finance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the loan or finance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the loan or finance company complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(d)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this part.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by loan or finance companies
—(i)
General rule.
No loan or finance company, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any loan or finance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to
disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a loan or finance company, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a loan or finance company of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, any Federal regulatory authority that examines the loan or finance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the loan or finance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the loan or finance company complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including, but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
(B) The sharing by a loan or finance company, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the loan or finance company, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the loan or finance company's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, state, local, territorial, or tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, official duties shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e)
Limitation on liability.
A loan or finance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f)
Compliance.
Loan or finance companies shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegates under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act, for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this part.
(g)
Compliance date.
This section applies to transactions initiated after an anti-money laundering program required by section 1029.210 of this part is required to be implemented.
§ 1029.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.
Refer to § 1010.330 of this chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by loan or finance companies.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Loan or Finance Companies
§ 1029.400
General.
Loan or finance companies are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Loan or finance companies should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping
requirements contained in that subpart which apply to loan or finance companies.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1029.500
General.
Loan or finance companies are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Loan or finance companies should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to loan or finance companies.
§ 1029.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for loan or finance companies.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1029.530
[Reserved]
§ 1029.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Loan or Finance Companies
§§ 1029.600-1029.670
[Reserved]
Pt. 1030

# PART 1030—RULES FOR HOUSING GOVERNMENT SPONSORED ENTERPRISES

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1030.100
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Programs
1030.200
General.
1030.210
Anti-money laundering programs for housing government sponsored enterprises.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises
1030.300
General.
1030.310-1030.315
[Reserved]
1030.320
Reports by housing government sponsored enterprises of suspicious transactions.
1030.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises
1030.400
General.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1030.500
General.
1030.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for housing government sponsored enterprises.
1030.530
[Reserved]
1030.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises
1030.600-1030.670
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.

# Source:
79 FR 10375, Feb. 25, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1030.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1030.200
General.
Housing government sponsored enterprises are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Housing government sponsored enterprises should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of
this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart that apply to housing government sponsored enterprises.
§ 1030.210
Anti-money laundering programs for housing government sponsored enterprises.
(a)
Anti-money laundering program requirements for housing government sponsored enterprises.
Each housing government sponsored enterprise shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program that is reasonably designed to prevent the housing government sponsored enterprise from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. A housing government sponsored enterprise shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its designee upon request.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the housing government sponsored enterprise's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its products and services. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by a housing government sponsored enterprise under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this part, and obtaining all relevant customer-related information necessary for an effective anti-money laundering program.
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary; and
(iii) Appropriate persons are educated and trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide for on-going training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program. A housing government sponsored enterprise may satisfy this requirement by training such persons or verifying that such persons have received training by a competent third party with respect to the products and services offered by the housing government sponsored enterprise.
(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the housing government sponsored enterprise's products and services. Such testing may be conducted by a third party or by any officer or employee of the housing government sponsored enterprise, other than the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Compliance.
Compliance with this section shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegate, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(d)
Compliance date.
A housing government sponsored enterprise must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before August 25, 2014.

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises
§ 1030.300
General.
Housing government sponsored enterprises are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Housing government sponsored enterprises should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart that apply to housing government sponsored enterprises.
§§ 1030.310-1030.315
[Reserved]
§ 1030.320
Reports by housing government sponsored enterprises of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General
—(1) Every housing government sponsored enterprise shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the
manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A housing government sponsored enterprise may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a housing government sponsored enterprise, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the housing government sponsored enterprise knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular housing government sponsored enterprise customer would normally be expected to engage, and the housing government sponsored enterprise knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the housing government sponsored enterprise to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) More than one housing government sponsored enterprise may have an obligation to report the same transaction under this section, and financial institutions involved in that same transaction may have separate obligations to report suspicious activity with respect to that transaction pursuant to other provisions of this chapter. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the housing government sponsored enterprise(s) and any financial institution(s) involved in the transaction, provided that the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the name of each housing government sponsored enterprise or financial institution involved in the transaction, the report complies with all instructions applicable to joint filings, and each institution maintains a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(b)
Filing and notification procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in accordance with the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting housing government sponsored enterprise of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a housing government sponsored enterprise may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
(4)
Mandatory notification to law enforcement.
In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a housing government sponsored enterprise shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(5)
Voluntary notification to FinCEN.
Any housing government sponsored enterprise wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c)
Retention of records.
A housing government sponsored enterprise shall
maintain a copy of any SAR filed by the housing government sponsored enterprise or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the housing government sponsored enterprise, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A housing government sponsored enterprise shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the housing government sponsored enterprise for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(d)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by housing government sponsored enterprises
—(i)
General rule.
No housing government sponsored enterprise, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any housing government sponsored enterprise, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a housing government sponsored enterprise, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a housing government sponsored enterprise of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the housing government sponsored enterprise for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another housing government sponsored enterprise or a financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a housing government sponsored enterprise or financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(B) The sharing by a housing government sponsored enterprise, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the housing government sponsored enterprise, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the housing government sponsored enterprise's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e)
Limitation on liability.
A housing government sponsored enterprise, and any director, officer, employee, or
agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f)
Compliance.
Housing government sponsored enterprises shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegate for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(g)
Applicability date.
This section is effective when an anti-money laundering program required by § 1030.210 of this part is required to be implemented.
§ 1030.330
Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.
Refer to § 1010.330 of this chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by housing government sponsored enterprises.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises
§ 1030.400
General.
Housing government sponsored enterprises are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Housing government sponsored enterprises should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart that apply to housing government sponsored enterprises.

# Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1030.500
General.
Housing government sponsored enterprises are subject to special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Housing government sponsored enterprises should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart that apply to housing government sponsored enterprises.
§ 1030.520
Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for housing government sponsored enterprises.
(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1030.530
[Reserved]
§ 1030.540
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises
§§ 1030.600-1030.670
[Reserved]
Pt. 1031

# PART 1031—RULES FOR PERSONS INVOLVED IN REAL ESTATE CLOSINGS AND SETTLEMENTS (EFF. 12-1-25)
Sec.
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Reports Required to be Made by Persons Involved in Real Estate Closings and Settlements
1031.320
Reports of residential real property transfers.
1031.321
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b, 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5336; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701 Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599; sec. 6403, Pub. L. 116-283, 134 Stat. 3388.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 70290, Aug. 29, 2024, part 1031 was added, effective Dec. 1, 2025.
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Reports Required to be Made by Persons Involved in Real Estate Closings and Settlements
§ 1031.320
Reports of residential real property transfers.
(a)
General.
A reportable transfer as defined in paragraph (b) of this section shall be reported to FinCEN by the reporting person identified in paragraph (c) of this section. The report shall include the information described in paragraphs (d) through (i) of this section. The reporting person may reasonably rely on information collected from others under the conditions described in paragraph (j). The report required by this section shall be filed in the form and manner, and at the time, specified in paragraph (k) of this section. Records shall be retained as specified in paragraph (l) of this section. Reports required under this section and any other information that would reveal that a reportable transfer has been reported are not confidential as specified in paragraph (m) of this section. Terms not defined in this section are defined in 31 CFR 1010.100.
(b)
Reportable transfer.
(1) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a reportable transfer is a non-financed transfer to a transferee entity or transferee trust of an ownership interest in residential real property. For the purposes of this section, residential real property means:
(i) Real property located in the United States containing a structure designed principally for occupancy by one to four families;
(ii) Land located in the United States on which the transferee intends to build a structure designed principally for occupancy by one to four families;
(iii) A unit designed principally for occupancy by one to four families within a structure on land located in the United States; or
(iv) Shares in a cooperative housing corporation for which the underlying property is located in the United States.
(2) A reportable transfer does not include a:
(i) Grant, transfer, or revocation of an easement;
(ii) Transfer resulting from the death of an individual, whether pursuant to the terms of a decedent's will or the terms of a trust, the operation of law, or by contractual provision;
(iii) Transfer incident to divorce or dissolution of a marriage or civil union;
(iv) Transfer to a bankruptcy estate;
(v) Transfer supervised by a court in the United States;
(vi) Transfer for no consideration made by an individual, either alone or with the individual's spouse, to a trust of which that individual, that individual's spouse, or both of them, are the settlor(s) or grantor(s);
(vii) Transfer to a qualified intermediary for purposes of 26 CFR 1.1031(k)-1; or
(viii) Transfer for which there is no reporting person.
(c)
Determination of reporting person.
(1) Except as set forth in paragraphs (c)(2), (3) and (4) of this section, the reporting person for a reportable transfer is the person engaged within the United States as a business in the provision of real estate closing and settlement services that is:
(i) The person listed as the closing or settlement agent on the closing or settlement statement for the transfer;
(ii) If no person described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that prepares the closing or settlement statement for the transfer;
(iii) If no person described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that files with the recordation office the deed or other instrument that transfers ownership of the residential real property;
(iv) If no person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that underwrites an owner's title insurance policy for the transferee with respect to the transferred residential real property, such as a title insurance company;
(v) If no person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that disburses in any form, including from an escrow account, trust account, or lawyers' trust account, the greatest amount of funds in connection with the residential real property transfer;
(vi) If no person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that provides an evaluation of the status of the title; or
(vii) If no person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that prepares the deed or, if no deed is involved, any other legal instrument that transfers ownership of the residential real property, including, with respect to shares in a cooperative housing corporation, the person who prepares the stock certificate.
(2)
Employees, agents, and partners.
If an employee, agent, or partner acting within the scope of such individual's employment, agency, or partnership would be the reporting person as determined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then the individual's employer, principal, or partnership is deemed to be the reporting person.
(3)
Financial institutions.
A financial institution that has an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program under this chapter is not a reporting person for purposes of this section.
(4)
Designation agreement.
(i) The reporting person described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may enter into an agreement with any other person described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to designate such other person as the reporting person with respect to the reportable transfer. The person designated by such agreement shall be treated as the reporting person with respect to the transfer. If reporting persons decide to use designation agreements, a separate agreement is required for each reportable transfer.
(ii) A designation agreement shall be in writing, and shall include:
(A) The date of the agreement;
(B) The name and address of the transferor;
(C) The name and address of the transferee entity or transferee trust;
(D) Information described in in paragraph (g) identifying transferred residential real property;
(E) The name and address of the person designated through the agreement as the reporting person with respect to the transfer; and
(F) The name and address of all other parties to the agreement.
(d)
Information concerning the reporting person.
The reporting person shall report:
(1) The full legal name of the reporting person;
(2) The category of reporting person, as determined in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) The street address that is the reporting person's principal place of business in the United States.
(e)
Information concerning the transferee
—(1)
Transferee entities.
For each transferee entity involved in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
(i) The following information for the transferee entity:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Trade name or “doing business as” name, if any;
(C) Complete current address consisting of:
(
1
) The street address that is the transferee entity's principal place of business; and
(
2
) If such principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the transferee entity conducts business, if any; and
(D) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(
1
) The Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Identification Number (IRS TIN) of the transferee entity;
(
2
) If the transferee entity has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number for the transferee entity that was issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
3
) If the transferee entity has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
(ii) The following information for each beneficial owner of the transferee entity:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Date of birth;
(C) Complete current residential street address;
(D) Citizenship; and
(E) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
(iii) The following information for each signing individual, if any:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Date of birth;
(C) Complete current residential street address;
(D) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
(E) Description of the capacity in which the individual is authorized to act as the signing individual; and
(F) If the signing individual is acting in that capacity as an employee, agent, or partner, the name of the individual's employer, principal, or partnership.
(2)
Transferee trusts.
For each transferee trust in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
(i) The following information for the transferee trust:
(A) Full legal name, such as the full title of the agreement establishing the transferee trust;
(B) Date the trust instrument was executed;
(C) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(
1
) IRS TIN; or
(
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; and
(D) Whether the transferee trust is revocable;
(ii) The following information for each trustee that is a legal entity:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Trade name or “doing business as” name, if any;
(C) Complete current address consisting of:
(
1
) The street address that is the trustee's principal place of business; and
(
2
) If such principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the trustee conducts business, if any; and
(D) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(
1
) The IRS TIN of the trustee;
(
2
) In the case that a trustee has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
3
) In the case that a trustee has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
(E) For purposes of this section, an individual trustee of the transferee trust is considered to be a beneficial owner of the trust. As such, information on individual trustees must be reported in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section;
(iii) The following information for each beneficial owner of the transferee trust:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Date of birth;
(C) Complete current residential street address;
(D) Citizenship;
(E) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
(F) The category of beneficial owner, as determined in paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(iv) The following information for each signing individual, if any:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Date of birth;
(C) Complete current residential street address;
(D) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
(E) Description of the capacity in which the individual is authorized to act as the signing individual; and
(F) If the signing individual is acting in that capacity as an employee, agent, or partner, the name of the individual's employer, principal, or partnership.
(f)
Information concerning the transferor.
For each transferor involved in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
(1) The following information for a transferor who is an individual:
(i) Full legal name;
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Complete current residential street address; and
(iv) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(A) An IRS TIN; or
(B) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(
1
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
2
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
(2) The following information for a transferor that is a legal entity:
(i) Full legal name;
(ii) Trade name or “doing business as” name, if any;
(iii) Complete current address consisting of:
(A) The street address that is the legal entity's principal place of business; and
(B) If the principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the legal entity conducts business, if any; and
(iv) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(A) An IRS TIN;
(B) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(C) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; and
(3) The following information for a transferor that is a trust:
(i) Full legal name, such as the full title of the agreement establishing the trust;
(ii) Date the trust instrument was executed;
(iii) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(A) IRS TIN; or
(B) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
(iv) For each individual who is a trustee of the trust:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Current residential street address; and
(C) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
(v) For each legal entity that is a trustee of the trust:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Trade name or “doing business as” name, if any;
(C) Complete current address consisting of:
(
1
) The street address that is the legal entity's principal place of business; and
(
2
) If the principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the legal entity conducts business, if any; and
(D) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(
1
) An IRS TIN;
(
2
) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(
3
) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction.
(g)
Information concerning the residential real property.
For each residential real property that is the subject of the reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
(1) The street address, if any;
(2) The legal description, such as the section, lot, and block; and
(3) The date of closing.
(h)
Information concerning payments.
(1) The reporting person shall report the following information concerning each payment, other than a payment disbursed from an escrow or trust account held by a transferee entity or transferee trust, that is made by or on behalf of the transferee entity or transferee trust regarding a reportable transfer:
(i) The amount of the payment;
(ii) The method by which the payment was made;
(iii) If the payment was paid from an account held at a financial institution, the name of the financial institution and the account number; and
(iv) The name of the payor on any wire, check, or other type of payment if the payor is not the transferee entity or transferee trust.
(2) The reporting person shall report the total consideration paid or to be paid by the transferee entity or transferee trust regarding the reportable transfer, as well as the total consideration paid by or to be paid by all transferees regarding the reportable transfer.
(i)
Information concerning hard money, private, and other similar loans.
The reporting person shall report whether the reportable transfer involved credit extended by a person that is not a financial institution with an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program and an obligation to report suspicious transactions under this chapter.
(j)
Reasonable reliance
—(1)
General.
Except as described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the reporting person may rely upon information provided by other persons, absent knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of the information provided to the reporting person.
(2)
Certification when reporting beneficial ownership information.
For purposes of reporting information described in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) and (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the reporting person may rely upon information provided by the transferee or a person representing the transferee in the reportable transfer, absent knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of the information provided to the reporting person, if the person providing the information certifies the accuracy of the information in writing to the best of the person's knowledge.
(k)
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A reportable transfer shall be reported by completing a Real Estate Report.
(2)
Where to file.
The Real Estate Report shall be filed electronically with FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the report.
(3)
When to file.
A reporting person is required to file a Real Estate Report by the later of either:
(i) the final day of the month following the month in which the date of closing occurred; or
(ii) 30 calendar days after the date of closing.
(l)
Retention of records.
A reporting person shall maintain a copy of any certification described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. In addition, all parties to a designation agreement described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall maintain a copy of such designation agreement.
(m)
Exemptions
—(1)
Confidentiality.
Reporting persons, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of such persons, and Federal, State, local, or Tribal government authorities, are exempt from the confidentiality provision in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2) that prohibits the disclosure to any person involved in a suspicious transaction that the transaction has been reported or any information that otherwise would reveal that the transaction has been reported.
(2)
Anti-money laundering program.
A reporting person under this section is exempt from the requirement to establish an anti-money laundering program, in accordance with 31 CFR 1010.205(b)(1)(v).
(n)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
(1)
Beneficial owner
—(i)
Beneficial owners of transferee entities.
(A) The beneficial owners of a transferee entity are the individuals who would be the beneficial owners of the transferee entity on the date of closing if the transferee entity were a reporting company under 31 CFR 1010.380(d) on the date of closing.
(B) The beneficial owners of a transferee entity that is established as a non-profit corporation or similar entity, regardless of jurisdiction of formation, are limited to individuals who exercise substantial control over the entity, as defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(d)(1) on the date of closing.
(ii)
Beneficial owners of transferee trusts.
The beneficial owners of a transferee trust are the individuals who fall into one or more of the following categories on the date of closing:
(A) A trustee of the transferee trust.
(B) An individual other than a trustee with the authority to dispose of transferee trust assets.
(C) A beneficiary who is the sole permissible recipient of income and principal from the transferee trust or who has the right to demand a distribution of, or withdraw, substantially all of the assets from the transferee trust.
(D) A grantor or settlor who has the right to revoke the transferee trust or otherwise withdraw the assets of the transferee trust.
(E) A beneficial owner of any legal entity that holds at least one of the positions in the transferee trust described in paragraphs (n)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, except when the legal entity meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (n)(10)(ii)(A) through (P) of this section. Beneficial ownership of any such legal entity is determined under 31 CFR 1010.380(d), utilizing the criteria for beneficial owners of a reporting company.
(F) A beneficial owner of any trust that holds at least one of the positions in the transferee trust described in paragraphs (n)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, except when the trust meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (n)(11)(ii)(A) through (D). Beneficial ownership of any such trust is determined under this paragraph (n)(1)(ii), utilizing the criteria for beneficial owners of a transferee trust.
(2)
Closing or settlement agent.
The term “closing or settlement agent” means any person, whether or not acting as an agent for a title agent or company, a licensed attorney, real estate broker, or real estate salesperson, who for another and with or without a commission, fee, or other valuable consideration and with or without the intention or expectation of receiving a commission, fee, or other valuable consideration, directly or indirectly, provides closing or settlement services incident to the transfer of residential real property.
(3)
Closing or settlement statement.
The term “closing or settlement statement” means the statement of receipts and disbursements prepared for the transferee for a transfer of residential real property.
(4)
Date of closing.
The term “date of closing” means the date on which the transferee entity or transferee trust receives an ownership interest in residential real property.
(5)
Non-financed transfer.
The term “non-financed transfer” means a transfer that does not involve an extension of credit to all transferees that is:
(i) Secured by the transferred residential real property; and
(ii) Extended by a financial institution that has both an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program and an obligation to report suspicious transactions under this chapter.
(6)
Ownership interest.
The term “ownership interest” means the rights held in residential real property that are demonstrated:
(i) Through a deed, for a reportable transfer described in paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; or
(ii) Through stock, shares, membership, certificate, or other contractual agreement evidencing ownership, for a reportable transfer described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.
(7)
Recordation office.
The term “recordation office” means any State, local, Territory and Insular Possession, or Tribal office for the recording of reportable transfers as a matter of public record.
(8)
Signing individual.
The term “signing individual” means each individual who signed documents on behalf of the transferee as part of the reportable transfer. However, it does not include any individual who signed documents as part of their employment with a financial institution that has both an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program and an obligation to report suspicious transactions under this chapter.
(9)
Statutory trust.
The term “statutory trust” means any trust created or authorized under the Uniform Statutory Trust Entity Act or as enacted by a State. For the purposes of this subpart, statutory trusts are transferee entities.
(10)
Transferee entity.
(i) Except as set forth in paragraph (n)(10)(ii) of this section, the term “transferee entity” means any person other than a transferee trust or an individual.
(ii) A transferee entity does not include:
(A) A securities reporting issuer defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(i);
(B) A governmental authority defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(ii);
(C) A bank defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(iii);
(D) A credit union defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(iv);
(E) A depository institution holding company defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(v);
(F) A money service business defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(vi);
(G) A broker or dealer in securities defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(vii);
(H) A securities exchange or clearing agency defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(viii);
(I) Any other Exchange Act registered entity defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(ix);
(J) An insurance company defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xii);
(K) A State-licensed insurance producer defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xiii);
(L) A Commodity Exchange Act registered entity defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xiv);
(M) A public utility defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xvi);
(N) A financial market utility defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xvii);
(O) An investment company as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 8 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8); and
(P) Any legal entity controlled or wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by an entity described in paragraphs (n)(10)(ii)(A) through (O) of this section.
(11)
Transferee trust.
(i) Except as set forth in paragraph (n)(11)(ii) of this section, the term “transferee trust” means any legal arrangement created when a person (generally known as a grantor or settlor) places assets under the control of a trustee for the benefit of one or more persons (each generally known as a beneficiary) or for a specified purpose, as well as any legal arrangement similar in structure or function to the above, whether formed
under the laws of the United States or a foreign jurisdiction. A trust is deemed to be a transferee trust regardless of whether residential real property is titled in the name of the trust itself or in the name of the trustee in the trustee's capacity as the trustee of the trust.
(ii) A transferee trust does not include:
(A) A trust that is a securities reporting issuer defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(i);
(B) A trust in which the trustee is a securities reporting issuer defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(i);
(C) A statutory trust; or
(D) An entity wholly owned by a trust described in paragraphs (n)(11)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
§ 1031.321
[Reserved]
Pt. 1032

# PART 1032—RULES FOR INVESTMENT ADVISERS (EFF. 1-1-26)

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1032.100
Definitions.
1032.110
Foreign-located investment adviser.
1032.111
Scope of application to foreign-located investment advisers.
1032.112
Severability

# Subpart B—Programs
1032.200
General.
1032.210
Anti-money laundering/countering the financing of terrorism programs for investment advisers.
1032.220
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Investment Advisers
1032.300
General.
1032.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
1032.311
Filing obligations.
1032.312
Identification required.
1032.313
Aggregation.
1032.314
Structured transactions.
1032.315
Exemptions.
1032.320
Reports by investment advisers of suspicious transactions.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Investment Advisers
1032.400
General.
1032.410
Recordkeeping.

# Subpart E—Special Information-Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
1032.500
General.
1032.520
Special information-sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for investment advisers.
1032.530
[Reserved]
1032.540
Voluntary information-sharing among financial institutions.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence, and Special Measures for Investment Advisers
1032.600
General.
1032.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
1032.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5336; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 72275, Sept. 4, 2024, part 1032 was added, effective Jan. 1, 2026.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1032.100
Definitions.
Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted in this part.
§ 1032.110
Foreign-located investment adviser.
A foreign-located investment adviser is an investment adviser whose principal office and place of business is outside the United States.
§ 1032.111
Scope of application to foreign-located investment advisers.
(a) The requirements of this part 1032 apply to a foreign-located investment adviser only with respect to its advisory activities that:
(1) Take place within the United States, including through involvement of U.S. personnel of the investment adviser, such as the involvement of an agency, branch, or office within the United States, or
(2) Provide advisory services to a U.S. person or a foreign-located private fund with an investor that is a U.S. person.
(3) For purposes of this § 1032.111,
(i) “Foreign-located private fund” means any foreign-located issuer that is a private fund as that term is defined under 15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(29);
(ii) “Investor” means any investor as that term is defined at 17 CFR 275.202(a)(30)-1(c)(2); and
(iii) “U.S. person” means any U.S. person as that term is defined in 17 CFR 230.902(k).
(b) For avoidance of doubt, upon request, a foreign-located investment adviser shall make records and reports required under this part, and any other records it has retained regarding the scope of its activities covered by this part, available for inspection by FinCEN or the Securities and Exchange Commission.
§ 1032.112
Severability
If any provision of this part, or any provision of § 1010.100, § 1010.410, § 1010.605, or § 1010.810 of this chapter referencing investment advisers, is held to be invalid, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions, or application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances, that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.

# Subpart B—Programs
§ 1032.200
General.
Investment advisers are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross-referenced in this subpart. Investment advisers should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart that apply to investment advisers.
§ 1032.210
Anti-money laundering/countering the financing of terrorism programs for investment advisers.
(a)
Anti-money laundering/countering the financing of terrorism program requirements for investment advisers.
(1) Each investment adviser shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering/countering the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) program that is risk-based and reasonably designed to prevent the investment adviser from being used for money laundering, terrorist financing, or other illicit finance activities and to achieve and monitor compliance with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(e)) and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury. The investment adviser may deem the requirements in this subpart satisfied for any:
(i) Mutual fund (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(gg)),
(ii) Collective investment fund that is subject to the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18 (or other applicable law that incorporates the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18), or
(iii) Any other investment adviser (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(nnn)), provided that such mutual fund, collective investment fund, or other investment adviser is advised by the investment adviser and subject to an AML/CFT program requirement under this chapter.
(2) Each investment adviser's AML/CFT program must be approved in writing by its board of directors or trustees, or if it does not have one, by its sole proprietor, general partner, trustee, or other persons that have functions similar to a board of directors. An investment adviser shall make its anti-money laundering/countering the financing of terrorism program available for inspection by FinCEN or the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
The AML/CFT program shall at a minimum:
(1) Establish and implement internal policies, procedures, and controls reasonably designed to prevent the investment adviser from being used for money laundering, terrorist financing, or other illicit finance activities and to achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and implementing regulations in this chapter;
(2) Provide for independent testing for compliance to be conducted by the investment adviser's personnel or by a qualified outside party;
(3) Designate a person or persons responsible for implementing and monitoring the operations and internal controls of the program;
(4) Provide ongoing training for appropriate persons; and
(5) Implement appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information.
(c)
Effective date.
An investment adviser must develop and implement an AML/CFT program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before January 1, 2026.
§ 1032.220
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Investment Advisers
§ 1032.300
General.
(a) Investment advisers are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross-referenced in this subpart. Investment advisers should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart that apply to investment advisers. The investment adviser may deem the requirements in this subpart satisfied for any: (i) mutual fund (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(gg)), (ii) collective investment fund that is subject to the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18 (or other applicable law that incorporates the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18), or (iii) any other investment adviser (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(nnn)), provided that such mutual fund, collective investment fund, or other investment adviser is advised by the investment adviser and subject to reporting requirements under this chapter.
§ 1032.310
Reports of transactions in currency.
The reports of transactions in currency requirements for investment advisers are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.
§ 1032.311
Filing obligations.
Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for investment advisers.
§ 1032.312
Identification required.
Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by investment advisers.
§ 1032.313
Aggregation.
Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for investment advisers.
§ 1032.314
Structured transactions.
Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for investment advisers.
§ 1032.315
Exemptions.
Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for investment advisers.
§ 1032.320
Reports by investment advisers of suspicious transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) Every investment adviser shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. An investment adviser may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve an investment adviser from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the Advisers Act or the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through an investment adviser; it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000; and the investment adviser knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the
transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the investment adviser knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the investment adviser to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) More than one investment adviser may have an obligation to report the same transaction under this section, and other financial institutions may have separate obligations to report suspicious activity with respect to the same transaction pursuant to other provisions of this chapter. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the investment adviser(s) and other financial institution(s) involved in the transaction, provided that the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the name of each financial institution and the words “joint filing” in the narrative section, and each institution maintains a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(b)
Filing and notification procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”) and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in accordance with the instructions to the SAR.
(3)
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting investment adviser of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, an investment adviser may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
(4)
Mandatory notification to law enforcement.
In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, an investment adviser shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(5)
Voluntary notification to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investment advisers wishing to voluntarily report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section. The investment adviser may also, but is not required to, contact the Securities and Exchange Commission to report in such situations.
(c)
Retention of records.
An investment adviser shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed by the investment adviser or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any SAR that it files (or that is filed on its behalf) for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the investment adviser, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. An investment adviser shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the investment adviser for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(d)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal
the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1)
Prohibition on disclosures by investment advisers
—(i)
General rule.
No investment adviser, and no current or former director, officer, employee, or agent of any investment adviser, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any investment adviser, and any current or former director, officer, employee, or agent of any investment adviser that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii)
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by an investment adviser, or any current or former director, officer, employee, or agent of an investment adviser of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the investment adviser for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
(
i
) To another financial institution, or any current or former director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by an investment adviser, or any current or former director, officer, employee, or agent of the investment adviser, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the investment adviser's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any current or former director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e)
Limitation on liability.
An investment adviser, and any current or former director, officer, employee, or agent of any investment adviser, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f)
Compliance.
Investment advisers shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegates for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.

# Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Investment Advisers
§ 1032.400
General.
Investment advisers are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set
forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Investment advisers should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to investment advisers. The investment adviser may deem the requirements in this subpart satisfied for any: (i) mutual fund (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(gg)), (ii) collective investment fund that is subject to the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18 (or other applicable law that incorporates the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18), or (iii) any other investment adviser (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(nnn)), provided that such mutual fund, collective investment fund, or other investment adviser is advised by the investment adviser and subject to recordkeeping requirements under this chapter.
§ 1032.410
Recordkeeping.
For regulations regarding recordkeeping, refer to § 1010.410 of this chapter.

# Subpart E—Special Information-Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1032.500
General.
Investment advisers are subject to the special information-sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross-referenced in this subpart. Investment advisers should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information-sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to investment advisers. The investment adviser may deem the requirements in this subpart satisfied for any: (i) mutual fund (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(gg)), (ii) collective investment fund that is subject to the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18 (or other applicable law that incorporates the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18), or (iii) any other investment adviser (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(nnn)), provided that such mutual fund, collective investment fund, or other investment adviser is advised by the investment adviser and subject to special information sharing procedures under this chapter.
§ 1032.520
Special information-sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for investment advisers.
For regulations regarding special information-sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for investment advisers, refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
§ 1032.530
[Reserved]
§ 1032.540
Voluntary information-sharing among financial institutions.
For regulations regarding voluntary information-sharing among financial institutions, refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.

# Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence, and Special Measures for Investment Advisers
§ 1032.600
General.
Investment advisers are subject to the special standards of diligence, prohibitions, and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Investment advisers should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence, prohibitions, and special measures contained in that subpart, all of which apply to investment advisers. The investment adviser may deem the requirements in this subpart satisfied for any: (i) mutual fund (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(gg)), (ii) collective investment fund that is subject to the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18 (or other applicable law that incorporates the requirements of 12 CFR 9.18), or (iii) any other investment adviser (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(nnn)), provided that such mutual fund, collective investment fund, or other investment adviser is advised by the investment adviser and subject to special standards of diligence and special measures under this chapter.
§1032.610
Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.
For regulations regarding due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions, refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
§ 1032.620
Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.
For regulations regarding due diligence programs for private banking accounts, refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
PARTS 1033-1059 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1060

# PART 1060—PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE COMPREHENSIVE IRAN SANCTIONS, ACCOUNTABILITY, AND DIVESTMENT ACT OF 2010
Sec.
1060.100-1060.200
[Reserved]
1060.300
Reporting obligations on foreign bank relationships with Iranian-linked financial institutions designated under IEEPA and IRGC-linked persons designated under IEEPA.
1060.400-1060.700
[Reserved]
1060.800
Penalties

# Authority:
Pub. L. 111-195, 124 Stat. 1312.

# Source:
76 FR 62623, Oct. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§§ 1060.100-1060.200
[Reserved]
§ 1060.300
Reporting obligations on foreign bank relationships with Iranian-linked financial institutions designated under IEEPA and IRGC-linked persons designated under IEEPA.
(a)
General.
(1) Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(d)) that maintains a correspondent account (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.605(c)(1)(ii)) for a specified foreign bank (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(u)) shall inquire of the foreign bank, and report to FinCEN, with respect to any correspondent account maintained by such foreign bank for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA; any transfer of funds for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA processed by such foreign bank within the preceding 90 calendar days, other than through a correspondent account; and any transfer of funds for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA processed by such foreign bank within the preceding 90 calendar days.
(2) For the purposes of this section, an “Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA” means a financial institution designated by the United States Government pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (or listed in an annex to an Executive order issued pursuant to such Act) in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction, or in connection with Iran's support for international terrorism. For the purposes of this section, an “IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA” means Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates designated by the United States Government pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (or listed in an annex to an Executive order issued pursuant to such Act).

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2):
Section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (“CISADA”), Public Law 111-195, 124 Stat. 1312, provides the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to prohibit, or impose strict conditions on, the opening or maintaining in the United States of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds knowingly engages in certain specified activities. Those specified activities include facilitating a significant transaction or transactions or providing significant financial services for a financial institution whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction, or in connection with Iran's support for international terrorism, or for Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to that Act.
(b)
Duty to inquire.
Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank that maintains a correspondent account for a specified foreign bank shall inquire of such foreign bank for the
purpose of having such foreign bank certify: whether it maintains a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA; whether it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account; and whether it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA. Upon such inquiry, a bank shall request that the foreign bank agree to notify the bank if the foreign bank subsequently establishes a new correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA at any time within 365 calendar days from the date of the foreign bank's initial response.
(c)
Filing Procedures
—(1)
What to file.
Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank shall report to FinCEN, in such format and manner as may be prescribed by FinCEN, the following information for any specified foreign bank:
(i) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that certifies that it maintains a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, and the following related information:
(A) The name of the Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA;
(B) The full name(s) on the correspondent account and the correspondent account number(s);
(C) Applicable information regarding whether the correspondent account has been blocked or otherwise restricted;
(D) Other applicable identifying information for the correspondent account; and
(E) The approximate value in U.S. dollars of transactions processed through the correspondent account within the preceding 90 calendar days;
(ii) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that certifies that it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account, and the following related information:
(A) The name of the Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA;
(B) The identity of the system or means by which such transfer(s) of funds was processed;
(C) The full name on the account(s) and the account number(s), if applicable;
(D) Other applicable identifying information for such transfer(s) of funds; and
(E) The approximate value in U.S. dollars of such transfer(s) of funds processed within the preceding 90 calendar days;
(iii) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that certifies that it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA, and the following related information:
(A) The name of the IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA;
(B) The identity of the system or means by which such transfer(s) of funds was processed;
(C) The full name on the account(s) and the account number(s), if applicable;
(D) Other applicable identifying information for such transfer(s) of funds; and
(E) The approximate value in U.S. dollars of such transfer(s) of funds processed within the preceding 90 calendar days;
(iv) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that certifies that it does not maintain a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, that certifies that to its knowledge it has not processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated
under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account, and/or that certifies that to its knowledge it has not processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA;
(v) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that the bank cannot determine does not maintain a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, has not processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account, and/or has not processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA, together with the reason(s) for this, such as the failure of the foreign bank to respond to the inquiry by or a request from the bank, the failure of the foreign bank to certify its response, or if the bank has information that is inconsistent with the certification;
(vi) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that notifies the bank that it has established a new correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA at any time within 365 calendar days from the date of the foreign bank's initial response, and the following related information:
(A) The name of the Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA;
(B) The full name(s) on the correspondent account and the correspondent account number(s);
(C) Applicable information regarding whether the correspondent account has been blocked or otherwise restricted; and
(D) Other applicable identifying information for the correspondent account;
(vii) If applicable, confirmation that the bank does not maintain a correspondent account for the specified foreign bank(s), but only in instances in which FinCEN specifically requests that the bank report such information; and
(viii) If applicable, the name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that provides a certification to the bank after the 45-calendar-day deadline, along with all applicable related information associated with that certification.
(2)
When to file.
(i) A bank shall report to FinCEN within 45-calendar-days of the date of the request from FinCEN.
(ii) Reports based on subsequent notifications received from a foreign bank regarding the establishment of a new correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA shall be due within 10 calendar days of receipt of the notification.
(iii) Reports based on certifications received from a foreign bank after the 45 calendar day deadline shall be due within 10 calendar days of receipt of the certification.
(d)
Retention of records.
A bank shall maintain for a period of five years a copy of any report filed and the original or any business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a report, including a foreign bank certification or other responses to an inquiry under this section.
(e)
No other action required.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a bank to take any action, or to decline to take any action, other than the requirements identified in this section, with respect to an account established for, or a transaction engaged in with, a foreign bank. However, nothing in this section relieves a bank of any other applicable regulatory obligation.
§§ 1060.400-1060.700
[Reserved]
§ 1060.800
Penalties.
A person violating any requirement under this part is subject to the penalties provided for in sections 5321(a) and 5322 of title 31, United States Code, in the same manner and to the same extent as such penalties would apply to any person that is otherwise subject to such section 5321(a) or 5322.
PARTS 1061-1099 [RESERVED]

# Finding Aids
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
40 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
31 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter V
501 Authority citation revised
19885, 48475, 54914, 60070
501.701 (a)(3) amended
19885
501 Appendix A amended
19885, 48475, 54914
510 Authority citation revised
19886, 20159
510.201 (a)(3)(v)(F) and (vi)(B) amended; (a) Note 3, Note 4, and Note 5 redesignated as (a) Note 4, Note 5, and Note 6; new (a) Note 4 revised; (a)(3)(vii) through (x) added
20159
510.210 (b) Note 1 removed; (c) and (d) redesignated as (d) and (e); new Note 1 and new (c) added; (b) heading and new (d) introductory text amended
20161
510.213 (f) added
20161
510.214 Added
20161
510.304 (a)(4), (8), (9), and (b) amended; (a)(10) added
20162
510.306 Amended
20162
510.317 Revised
20162
510.319 (b) amended
20162
510.413 Revised
20162
510.701 (a)(2) amended
19886
510.802 Revised
20162
515.101 (b) amended
60070
515.209 (a) note amended
60070
515.209 Note redesignated as Note 1; Note 2 added
67989
515.210 Added
60070
515.421 (a)(4) and (5) amended; (a)(6) added
60070
515.421 (a)(5) and (6) amended; (a)(7) added
67989
515.533 (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added
60070
515.534 Note amended
60070
515.542 Note 1 amended
60071
515.545 (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added
60071
515.547 (a) note 2 amended
60071
515.559 (e) redesignated as (f); new (e) added
60071
515.560 (c)(3) and (d) amended; (e) removed
60071
515.561 (a) amended
60071
515.563 (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added
60071
515.564 (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added; (a) and new (e) revised
60071
515.565 (f) and (g) redesignated as (g) and (h); new (f) added
60071
515.566 (a) introductory text amended
60071
515.567 (a) note 1 and note 2 added; (b) and (e) revised; (c) and (d) amended
60071
515.569 Amended
60072
515.570 (d) amended
60072
515.570 (j) redesignated as (k); new (j) added
67989
515.571 (a)(1), (3), and (4) amended
60072
515.572 (a)(1) amended; (a) Note removed
60072
515.572 (a)(3) amended
67989
515.574 (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added;
Example 1
,
Example 2
, and
Example 3
amended
60072
515.575 (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added
60072
515.576 (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added
60072
515.577 (e) removed; (f) redesignated as new (e)
60072
515.582 Amended
60072
515.585 (d) amended
60072
515.587 Amended
67989
515.591 Note 2 amended
60072
520 Added
61817
535 Authority citation revised
19886
535.701 (a)(2) amended
19886
536 Authority citation revised
19886
536.701 (a)(2) amended
19886
539 Authority citation revised
19886
539.701 (a)(2) amended
19886
541 Authority citation revised
19886, 31061
541.510 Removed
31061
541.701 (a)(2) amended
19887
542 Authority citation revised
19887
542.701 (a)(2) amended
19887
544 Authority citation revised
19887, 61824
544.701 (a)(2) amended
19887
544.201 (a) Note 1 revised
61824
546 Authority citation revised
19887
546.701 (a)(2) amended
19887
547 Authority citation revised
19887
547.701 (a)(2) amended
19887
548 Authority citation revised
19887
548.701 (a)(2) amended
19887
549 Authority citation revised
19887
549.701 (a)(2) amended
19887
552 Revised
68463
555 Added
7223
560 Authority citation revised
19887, 61824
560.215 Amended
61825
560.539 (a) introductory text amended; (a) Note 1 added
61825
560.701 (a)(2) amended
19887
560.701 Second (a)(3) redesignated as (a)(4)
61825
561 Authority citation revised
19887
561.701 (a)(4) amended
19887
566 Authority citation revised
19887
566.701 (b) amended
19888
569 Added
34510
576 Authority citation revised
19888
576.701 (a)(2) amended
19888
582 Authority citation revised
43437
582.201 Revised
43437
582.509 Added
43437
582.802 Revised
43437
583 Authority citation revised
19888
583.701 (c) amended
19888
584 Authority citation revised
19888
584.701 (a)(2) amended
19888
588 Authority citation revised
19888
588.701 (a)(2) amended
19888
591 Notification
14572
591 Announcement
76450
592 Authority citation revised
19888
592.601 (a)(2) amended
19888
594 Authority citation revised
19888
594.701 (a)(2) amended
19888
595 Removed
13746
597.701 (b)(3) amended
19888
598 Authority citation revised
19888
598.701 (a)(4) amended
19888
Chapter VIII
800 Revised; interim
3124
800.219 Correction: (a)(3) introductory text, (iv)(C), and (v)(D) amended
8747
800.401 Correction: (e)(4) and (5) amended
8747
800.501 (a) and (f) amended; interim
23740
800.502 Correction: (c)(4)(i) and (o) amended
8747
800.502 (c)(1)(viii) revised; interim
23740
800.503 (a)(1) amended; (a)(2) redesignated as (a)(3); new (a)(2) added; interim
23740
800.504 (a)(3) and (4) redesignated as (a)(4) and (5); new (a)(3) added; interim
23740
800.1101—800.1108 (Subpart K) Added; interim
23740
801.103 Revised; interim
3155
800.104 (a) revised; (d) and (e) added
57128
801.302 (c) amended; interim
3156
800.213 (e)(2) amended
57128
800.239 (a) amended
45313
800.244 (b) and (c) revised
57128
800.254 Redesignated as 800.255; new section added
57128
800.255 Redesignated from 800.254
57128
800.256 Added
57128
800.401 (b), (c), and (e)(6) revised; (j)(4) through (6) added
57128
800 Appendix B removed
57129
802 Added; interim
3166
802.215 Correction: (a)(3) introductory text, (iv)(C), and (v)(D) amended
8747
802.232 (a) amended
45313
802.501 (a) and (f) amended; interim
23742
802.502 (b)(1)(ix) revised; interim
23742
802.503 (a)(1) amended; (a)(2) redesignated as (a)(3); new (a)(2) added; interim
23742
802.504 (a)(3) and (4) redesignated as (a)(4) and (5); new (a)(3) added; interim
23743
802.1101—802.1108 (Subpart K) Added; interim
23743
Chapter X
1010.821 Table 1 revised
9371
Chapter X
1010 Policy statement
48104
1010.205 (b)(1)(vi) removed; (b)(1)(vii), (viii), and (ix) redesignated as (b)(1)(vi), (vii), and (viii); (b)(2) and (3) removed
57137
1010.605 (e)(1)(i) revised; (e)(1)(ii) through (vii) removed; (e)(1)(viii), (ix), and (x) redesignated as (e)(1)(ii), (iii), and (iv)
57137
1010.655 Removed
48107
1020.100 (b) and (d) removed; (c) redesignated as (b)
57137
1020.210 Revised
57137
1020.220 Heading and (a)(1) revised
57138
2021
31 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter V
501 Authority citation revised
14535
501.701 (a)(3) introductory text amended
14536
501 Appendix A amended
14536, 18896
510 Authority citation revised
14536
510.701 (a)(2) amended
14536
520 Removed
35399
525 Added
29197
535 Authority citation revised
14536
535.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
536 Authority citation revised
14537
536.201 Revised
26663
536.203 Revised
26663
536.204 Revised
26664
536.206 Added
26664
536.300 Added
26664
536.301 Revised
26664
536.304 Revised
26664
536.305 Removed
26664
536.308 Revised
26664
536.312 Revised
26664
536.313 Removed
26665
536.318 Added
26665
536.319 Added
26665
536.320 Added
26665
536.406 Revised
26665
536.407 Revised
26665
536.409 Revised
26665
536.410 Added
26665
536.506 Revised
26665
536.507 Redesignated as 536.511; new section added
26666
536.508 Added
26666
536.509 Added
26666
536.510 Added
26667
536.511 Redesignated from 536.507; new section revised
26667
536.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
539 Authority citation revised
14537
539.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
541 Authority citation revised
14537
541.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
542 Authority citation revised
14537
542 Authority citation revised
67324
542.516 (d) removed; (a) through (c) redesignated as (b) through new (d); (a) and (f) added; (b) introductory text, new (d), and (e) revised; (c) amended
67324
542.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
544 Authority citation revised
14537
544.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
546 Authority citation revised
14537
546.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
547 Authority citation revised
14537
547.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
548 Authority citation revised
14537
548.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
549 Authority citation revised
14537
549.701 (a)(2) amended
14537
551 Revised
22348
552 Authority citation revised
14537
552.701 (a)(2) amended
14538
560 Authority citation revised
14538
560.701 (a)(2) amended
14538
561 Authority citation revised
14538
561.701 (a)(4) amended
14538
566 Authority citation revised
14538
566.701 (b) amended
14538
576 Authority citation revised
14538
576.701 (a)(2) amended
14538
583 Authority citation revised
14538
583.701 (c) amended
14538
584 Authority citation revised
14538
584.701 (a)(2) amended
14538
585 Added
3794
588 Authority citation revised
14538
588.701 (a)(2) amended
14538
589 Notification
37904, 37907, 40310, 40316, 59615
591 Notification
58016
591 Announcement
59024
592 Authority citation revised
14538
592.601 (a)(2) amended
14538
594 Authority citation revised
14538
594.701 (a)(2) amended
14538
596.505 (a) amended
27274
596.506 Removed
27274
597 Authority citation revised
14538
597.701 (b)(3) amended
14539
598 Authority citation revised
14539, 26667
598.202 Revised
26667
598.203 Removed
26667
598.204 Revised
26667
598.206 Revised
26667
598.207 Added
26668
598.300 Added
26668
598.301 Revised
26668
598.305 Revised
26668
598.306 Removed
26668
598.308 Revised
26668
598.313 Revised
26668
598.314 Revised
26668
598.315 Removed
26669
598.320 Added
26669
598.321 Added
26669
598.404 Revised
26669
598.406 Revised
26669
598.407 Revised
26669
598.409 Revised
26669
598.411 Added
26669
598.507 Revised
26669
598.508 Added
26670
598.509 Added
26670
598.510 Added
26670
598.511 Added
26671
598.512 Added
26671
598.701 (a)(4) amended
14539
598.803 Revised
26671
Chapter X
1010 Authority citation revised
62915, 72845
1010.370 Heading, (a), (b), and (d)(1) revised; (e) added
62915
1010.820 (g) removed; (h) and (i) redesignated as new (g) and (h)
72845
1010.821 (b) Table 1 revised
7349
1010.821 Correction: table amended
7811
2022
31 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter V
501 Authority citation revised
3206
501.701 (a)(3) amended
7370
501 Appendix A amended
3206, 7370
510.213 (e) introductory text amended; (e) Note 3 removed
78471
510.513 Revised
78471
510.514 Revised
78471
510.701 (a)(2) amended
7371
515.534 Note amended
35089
515.542 Note 1 amended
35089
515.547 (a) Note 2 amended
35089
515.561 (a) introductory text amended
35089
515.564 (a)(1) and (2) redesignated as (a)(1)(i) and (ii); (a) introductory text redesignated as (a)(1); (a) example, (b) example, and (e) amended; (a) note 1 and note 2 redesignated as (a)(1) note 1 and note 3; new (a)(1) heading and (2) added
35089
515.565 (a) and (b) revised; (d) and (e) removed; (f), (g), and (h) redesignated as (d), (e), and (f); new (d) and new (f) amended
35089
515.570 (a)(1) removed; (a)(2) through (4) redesignated as (a)(1) through (3); (b) and (h) added; (d) amended
35091
515.572 Note and (a)(5) note redesignated as Note 4 and (a)(5) note 2; (a) note 3 added
35091
515.577 (e) redesignated as (f); new (e) added
35091
515.591 Amended
35091
525.510 Added
78471
535.701 (a)(2) amended
7371
536.512 Added
78471
536.513 Added
78471
536.514 Added
78484
536.515 Added
78485
536.701 (a)(2) amended
7371
539.504 Revised
78472
539.505 Added
78472
539.506 Added
78485
539.507 Added
78485
539.701 (a)(2) amended
7371
541.301 Note redesignated as Note 1 and amended
78472
541.411 Revised
78472
541.510 Added
78472
541.511 Added
78472
541.512 Added
78486
541.513 Added
78486
541.701 (a)(2) amended
7372
542 Notification
47932
542.211 (d) introductory text amended
78473
542.301 Note redesignated as Note 1 and amended
78473
542.411 Revised
78473
542.522 Revised
78473
542.701 (a)(2) amended
7372
544.301 Note redesignated as Note 1 and amended
78473
544.411 Revised
78473
544.507 Revised
8734
544.508 Redesignated as 544.509; new section added
8734
544.509 Redesignated from 544.508
8734
544.510 Added
78473
544.511 Added
78473
544.512 Added
78487
544.513 Added
78487
544.701 (a)(2) amended
7372
546.302 Note redesignated as Note 1 and amended
78473
546.411 Revised
78474
546.509 Added
78474
546.510 Added
78474
546.511 Added
78487
546.512 Added
78488
546.701 (a)(2) amended
7372
547.510 Added
78474
547.511 Added
78474
547.512 Added
78488
547.513 Added
78489
547.701 (a)(2) amended
7372
548 Authority citation revised
78474
548.301 Note redesignated as Note 1 and amended
78474
548.411 Revised
78474
548.509 Added
78474
548.510 Added
78474
548.511 Added
78489
548.512 Added
78489
548.701 (a)(2) amended
7372
549.301 Note redesignated as Note 1 and amended
78475
549.411 Revised
78475
549.509 Added
78475
549.510 Added
78475
549.511 Added
78490
549.512 Added
78490
549.701 (a)(2) amended
7372
550 Added
7374
551.511 Revised
78475
