Random and selective sampling and case examinations.
We may use random and selective sampling to identify cases involving any type of action (
i.e.
, fully or partially favorable decisions, unfavorable decisions, or dismissals) and any type of benefits (
i.e.
, benefits based on disability and benefits not based on disability). We will use selective sampling to identify cases that exhibit problematic issues or fact patterns that increase the likelihood of error. Neither our random sampling procedures nor our selective sampling procedures will identify cases based on the identity of the decisionmaker or the identity of the office issuing the decision. We may examine cases that have been identified through random or selective sampling to refine the identification of cases that may meet the criteria for review by the Appeals Council.
(2)
Identification as a result of the effectuation process.
We may refer a case requiring effectuation to the Appeals Council if, in the view of the effectuating component, the decision cannot be effectuated because it contains a clerical error affecting the outcome of the claim; the decision is clearly inconsistent with the Social Security Act, the regulations, or a published ruling; or the decision is unclear regarding a matter that affects the claim's outcome.
(c)
Referral of cases.
We will make referrals that occur as the result of a case examination or the effectuation process in writing. The written referral based on the results of such a case examination or the effectuation process will state the referring component's reasons for believing that the Appeals Council should review the case on its own motion. Referrals that result from selective sampling without a case examination may be accompanied by a written statement identifying the issue(s) or fact pattern that caused the referral. Referrals that result from random sampling without a case examination will only identify the case as a random sample case.
(d)
Appeals Council's action.
If the Appeals Council decides to review a decision or dismissal on its own motion, it will mail a notice of review to all the parties as provided in § 404.973. The Appeals Council will include with that notice a copy of any written referral it has received under paragraph (c) of this section. The Appeals Council's decision to review a case is established by its issuance of the notice of review. If it is unable to decide within the applicable 60-day period whether to review a decision or dismissal, the Appeals Council may consider the case to determine if the decision or dismissal should be reopened pursuant to §§ 404.987 and 404.988. If the Appeals Council decides to review a decision on its own motion or to reopen a decision as provided in
§§ 404.987 and 404.988, the notice of review or the notice of reopening issued by the Appeals Council will advise, where appropriate, that interim benefits will be payable if a final decision has not been issued within 110 days after the date of the decision that is reviewed or reopened, and that any interim benefits paid will not be considered overpayments unless the benefits are fraudulently obtained.
[63 FR 36570, July 7, 1998, as amended at 75 FR 33168, June 11, 2010]
§ 404.970
Cases the Appeals Council will review.
(a) The Appeals Council will review a case at a party's request or on its own motion if—
(1) There appears to be an abuse of discretion by the administrative law judge or administrative appeals judge who heard the case;
(2) There is an error of law;
(3) The action, findings or conclusions in the hearing decision or dismissal order are not supported by substantial evidence;
(4) There is a broad policy or procedural issue that may affect the general public interest; or
(5) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the Appeals Council receives additional evidence that is new, material, and relates to the period on or before the date of the hearing decision, and there is a reasonable probability that the additional evidence would change the outcome of the decision.
(b) The Appeals Council will only consider additional evidence under paragraph (a)(5) of this section if you show good cause for not informing us about or submitting the evidence as described in § 404.935 because:
(1) Our action misled you;
(2) You had a physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitation(s) that prevented you from informing us about or submitting the evidence earlier; or
(3) Some other unusual, unexpected, or unavoidable circumstance beyond your control prevented you from informing us about or submitting the evidence earlier. Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) You were seriously ill, and your illness prevented you from contacting us in person, in writing, or through a friend, relative, or other person;
(ii) There was a death or serious illness in your immediate family;
(iii) Important records were destroyed or damaged by fire or other accidental cause;
(iv) You actively and diligently sought evidence from a source and the evidence was not received or was received less than 5 business days prior to the hearing; or
(v) You received a hearing level decision on the record and the Appeals Council reviewed your decision.
(c) If you submit additional evidence that does not relate to the period on or before the date of the administrative law judge hearing decision as required in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, or the Appeals Council does not find you had good cause for missing the deadline to submit the evidence in § 404.935, the Appeals Council will send you a notice that explains why it did not accept the additional evidence and advises you of your right to file a new application. The notice will also advise you that if you file a new application within 6 months after the date of the Appeals Council's notice, your request for review will constitute a written statement indicating an intent to claim benefits under § 404.630. If you file a new application within 6 months of the Appeals Council's notice, we will use the date you requested Appeals Council review as the filing date for your new application.
[81 FR 90994, Dec. 16, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 73157, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 404.971
Dismissal by Appeals Council.
The Appeals Council will dismiss your request for review if you did not file your request within the stated period of time and the time for filing has not been extended. The Appeals Council may also dismiss any proceedings before it if—
(a) You and any other party to the proceedings files a written request for dismissal; or
(b) You or any other party to the proceedings dies and the record clearly shows that dismissal will not adversely affect any other person who wishes to continue the action.
§ 404.972
Effect of dismissal of request for Appeals Council review.
The dismissal of a request for Appeals Council review is binding and not subject to further review.
§ 404.973
Notice of Appeals Council review.
When the Appeals Council decides to review a case, it shall mail a prior notice to all parties at their last known address stating the reasons for the review and the issues to be considered. However, when the Appeals Council plans to issue a decision that is fully favorable to all parties, plans to remand the case for further proceedings, or plans to issue a decision that is favorable in part and remand the remaining issues for further proceedings, it may send the notice of Appeals Council review to all parties with the decision or remand order.
[85 FR 73157, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 404.974
Obtaining evidence from Appeals Council.
You may request and receive copies or a statement of the documents or other written evidence upon which the hearing decision or dismissal was based and a copy or summary of the transcript of oral evidence. However, you will be asked to pay the costs of providing these copies unless there is a good reason why you should not pay.
§ 404.975
Filing briefs with the Appeals Council.
Upon request, the Appeals Council shall give you and all other parties a reasonable opportunity to file briefs or other written statements about the facts and law relevant to the case. A copy of each brief or statement should be filed for each party.
§ 404.976
Procedures before the Appeals Council.
(a)
Limitation of issues.
The Appeals Council may limit the issues it considers if it notifies you and the other parties of the issues it will review.
(b)
Evidence the Appeals Council will exhibit.
The Appeals Council will evaluate all additional evidence it receives, but will only mark as an exhibit and make part of the official record additional evidence that it determines meets the requirements of § 404.970(a)(5) and (b). If we need to file a certified administrative record in Federal court, we will include in that record all additional evidence the Appeals Council received during the administrative review process, including additional evidence that the Appeals Council received but did not exhibit or make part of the official record.
(c)
Oral argument.
You may request to appear before the Appeals Council to present oral argument in support of your request for review. The Appeals Council will grant your request if it decides that your case raises an important question of law or policy or that oral argument would help to reach a proper decision. If your request to appear is granted, the Appeals Council will tell you the time and place of the oral argument at least 10 business days before the scheduled date. The Appeals Council will determine whether your appearance will be by audio, agency video, online video, or in person as set forth in § 404.936. The Appeals Council will determine whether any other person relevant to the proceeding will appear by audio, agency video, online video, or in person as set forth in § 404.936(c)(2).
[81 FR 90994, Dec. 16, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 69306, Dec. 18, 2019; 85 FR 73157, Nov. 16, 2020; 89 FR 68362, Aug. 26, 2024]
§ 404.977
Case remanded by Appeals Council.
(a)
When the Appeals Council may remand a case.
The Appeals Council may remand a case to an administrative law judge so that he or she may hold a hearing and issue a decision or a recommended decision. The Appeals Council may also remand a case in which additional evidence is needed or additional action by the administrative law judge is required.
(b)
Action by administrative law judge on remand.
The administrative law judge shall take any action that is ordered by the Appeals Council and may take any additional action that is not inconsistent with the Appeals Council's remand order.
(c)
Notice when case is returned with a recommended decision.
When the administrative law judge sends a case to the
Appeals Council with a recommended decision, a notice is mailed to the parties at their last known address. The notice tells them that the case has been sent to the Appeals Council, explains the rules for filing briefs or other written statements with the Appeals Council, and includes a copy of the recommended decision.
(d)
Filing briefs with and obtaining evidence from the Appeals Council.
(1) You may file briefs or other written statements about the facts and law relevant to your case with the Appeals Council within 20 days of the date that the recommended decision is mailed to you. Any party may ask the Appeals Council for additional time to file briefs or statements. The Appeals Council will extend this period, as appropriate, if you show that you had good cause for missing the deadline.
(2) All other rules for filing briefs with and obtaining evidence from the Appeals Council follow the procedures explained in this subpart.
(e)
Procedures before the Appeals Council.
(1) The Appeals Council, after receiving a recommended decision, will conduct its proceedings and issue its decision according to the procedures explain in this subpart.
(2) If the Appeals Council believes that more evidence is required, it may again remand the case to an administrative law judge for further inquiry into the issues, rehearing, receipt of evidence, and another decision or recommended decision. However, if the Appeals Council decides that it can get the additional evidence more quickly, it will take appropriate action.
§ 404.979
Decision of Appeals Council.
After it has reviewed all the evidence in the administrative law judge hearing record and any additional evidence received, subject to the limitations on Appeals Council consideration of additional evidence in § 404.970, the Appeals Council will make a decision or remand the case to an administrative law judge. The Appeals Council may affirm, modify or reverse the administrative law judge hearing decision or it may adopt, modify or reject a recommended decision. If the Appeals Council issues its own decision, it will base its decision on the preponderance of the evidence. A copy of the Appeals Council's decision will be mailed to the parties at their last known address.
[52 FR 4004, Feb. 9, 1987, as amended at 73 FR 76944, Dec. 18, 2008; 81 FR 90994, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 404.981
Effect of Appeals Council's decision or denial of review.
The Appeals Council may deny a party's request for review or it may decide to review a case and make a decision. The Appeals Council's decision, or the decision of the administrative law judge if the request for review is denied, is binding unless you or another party file an action in Federal district court, or the decision is revised. You may file an action in a Federal district court within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the Appeals Council's action.
§ 404.982
Extension of time to file action in Federal district court.
Any party to the Appeals Council's decision or denial of review, or to an expedited appeals process agreement, may request that the time for filing an action in a Federal district court be extended. The request must be in writing and it must give the reasons why the action was not filed within the stated time period. The request must be filed with the Appeals Council, or if it concerns an expedited appeals process agreement, with one of our offices. If you show that you had good cause for missing the deadline, the time period will be extended. To determine whether good cause exists, we use the standards explained in § 404.911.

# Court Remand Cases
§ 404.983
Case remanded by a Federal court.
(a)
General rule.
When a Federal court remands a case to the Commissioner for further consideration, the Appeals Council, acting on behalf of the Commissioner, may make a decision following the provisions in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, dismiss the proceedings, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, or remand the case to an administrative law judge following the provisions in paragraph (e) of this section with instructions to
take action and issue a decision or return the case to the Appeals Council with a recommended decision. Any issues relating to the claim(s) may be considered by the Appeals Council or administrative law judge whether or not they were raised in the administrative proceedings leading to the final decision in the case.
(b)
Appeals Council decision without a hearing.
If the Appeals Council assumes responsibility under paragraph (a) of this section for issuing a decision without a hearing, it will follow the procedures explained in §§ 404.973 and 404.979.
(c)
Administrative appeals judge decision after holding a hearing.
If the Appeals Council assumes responsibility for issuing a decision and a hearing is necessary to complete adjudication of the claim(s), an administrative appeals judge will hold a hearing using the procedures set forth in §§ 404.929 through 404.961, as applicable.
(d)
Appeals Council dismissal.
After a Federal court remands a case to the Commissioner for further consideration, the Appeals Council may dismiss the proceedings before it for any reason that an administrative law judge may dismiss a request for a hearing under § 404.957. The Appeals Council will not dismiss the proceedings in a claim where we are otherwise required by law or a judicial order to file the Commissioner's additional and modified findings of fact and decision with a court.
(e)
Appeals Council remand.
If the Appeals Council remands a case under paragraph (a) of this section, it will follow the procedures explained in § 404.977.
[85 FR 73157, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 404.984
Appeals Council review of hearing decision in a case remanded by a Federal court.
(a)
General.
In accordance with § 404.983, when a case is remanded by a Federal court for further consideration and the Appeals Council remands the case to an administrative law judge, or an administrative appeals judge issues a decision pursuant to § 404.983(c), the decision of the administrative law judge or administrative appeals judge will become the final decision of the Commissioner after remand on your case unless the Appeals Council assumes jurisdiction of the case. The Appeals Council may assume jurisdiction, using the standard set forth in § 404.970, based on written exceptions to the decision which you file with the Appeals Council or based on its authority pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. If the Appeals Council assumes jurisdiction of the case, it will not dismiss the request for a hearing where we are otherwise required by law or a judicial order to file the Commissioner's additional and modified findings of fact and decision with a court.
(b)
You file exceptions disagreeing with the hearing decision.
(1) If you disagree with the hearing decision, in whole or in part, you may file exceptions to the decision with the Appeals Council. Exceptions may be filed by submitting a written statement to the Appeals Council setting forth your reasons for disagreeing with the decision of the administrative law judge or administrative appeals judge. The exceptions must be filed within 30 days of the date you receive the hearing decision or an extension of time in which to submit exceptions must be requested in writing within the 30-day period. A timely request for a 30-day extension will be granted by the Appeals Council. A request for an extension of more than 30 days should include a statement of reasons as to why you need the additional time.
(2) If written exceptions are timely filed, the Appeals Council will consider your reasons for disagreeing with the hearing decision and all the issues presented by your case. If the Appeals Council concludes that there is no reason to change the hearing decision, it will issue a notice to you addressing your exceptions and explaining why no change in the hearing decision is warranted. In this instance, the hearing decision is the final decision of the Commissioner after remand.
(3) When you file written exceptions to the hearing decision, the Appeals Council may assume jurisdiction at any time, even after the 60-day time period which applies when you do not file exceptions. If the Appeals Council assumes jurisdiction of your case, any issues relating to your claim may be considered by the Appeals Council whether or not they were raised in the
administrative proceedings leading to the final decision in your case or subsequently considered by the administrative law judge or administrative appeals judge in the administrative proceedings following the court's remand order. The Appeals Council will either make a new, independent decision pursuant to § 404.983(b) or § 404.983(c), based on a preponderance of the evidence in the record that will be the final decision of the Commissioner after remand, dismiss the request for a hearing, or remand the case to an administrative law judge for further proceedings, including a new decision.
(c)
Appeals Council assumes jurisdiction without exceptions being filed.
Any time within 60 days after the date of the hearing decision, the Appeals Council may decide to assume jurisdiction of your case even though no written exceptions have been filed. Notice of this action will be mailed to all parties at their last known address. You will be provided with the opportunity to file briefs or other written statements with the Appeals Council about the facts and law relevant to your case. After the Appeals Council receives the briefs or other written statements, or the time allowed (usually 30 days) for submitting them has expired, the Appeals Council will either make a new, independent decision pursuant to § 404.983(b) or § 404.983(c), based on a preponderance of the evidence in the record that will be the final decision of the Commissioner after remand, dismiss the request for a hearing, or remand the case to an administrative law judge for further proceedings, including a new decision.
(d)
Exceptions are not filed and the Appeals Council does not otherwise assume jurisdiction.
If no exceptions are filed and the Appeals Council does not assume jurisdiction of your case, the decision of the administrative law judge or administrative appeals judge becomes the final decision of the Commissioner after remand.
[85 FR 73185, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 404.985
Application of circuit court law.
The procedures which follow apply to administrative determinations or decisions on claims involving the application of circuit court law.
(a)
General.
We will apply a holding in a United States Court of Appeals decision that we determine conflicts with our interpretation of a provision of the Social Security Act or regulations unless the Government seeks further judicial review of that decision or we relitigate the issue presented in the decision in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. We will apply the holding to claims at all levels of the administrative review process within the applicable circuit unless the holding, by its nature, applies only at certain levels of adjudication.
(b)
Issuance of an Acquiescence Ruling.
When we determine that a United States Court of Appeals holding conflicts with our interpretation of a provision of the Social Security Act or regulations and the Government does not seek further judicial review or is unsuccessful on further review, we will issue a Social Security Acquiescence Ruling. The Acquiescence Ruling will describe the administrative case and the court decision, identify the issue(s) involved, and explain how we will apply the holding, including, as necessary, how the holding relates to other decisions within the applicable circuit. These Acquiescence Rulings will generally be effective on the date of their publication in the
Federal Register
and will apply to all determinations and decisions made on or after that date unless an Acquiescence Ruling is rescinded as stated in paragraph (e) of this section. The process we will use when issuing an Acquiescence Ruling follows:
(1) We will release an Acquiescence Ruling for publication in the
Federal Register
for any precedential circuit court decision that we determine contains a holding that conflicts with our interpretation of a provision of the Social Security Act or regulations no later than 120 days from the receipt of the court's decision. This timeframe will not apply when we decide to seek further judicial review of the circuit court decision or when coordination with the Department of Justice and/or other Federal agencies makes this timeframe no longer feasible.
(2) If we make a determination or decision on your claim between the date of a circuit court decision and the date we publish an Acquiescence Ruling, you may request application of the published Acquiescence Ruling to the prior determination or decision. You must demonstrate that application of the Acquiescence Ruling could change the prior determination or decision in your case. You may demonstrate this by submitting a statement that cites the Acquiescence Ruling or the holding or portion of a circuit court decision which could change the prior determination or decision in your case. If you can so demonstrate, we will readjudicate the claim in accordance with the Acquiescence Ruling at the level at which it was last adjudicated. Any readjudication will be limited to consideration of the issue(s) covered by the Acquiescence Ruling and any new determination or decision on readjudication will be subject to administrative and judicial review in accordance with this subpart. Our denial of a request for readjudication will not be subject to further administrative or judicial review. If you file a request for readjudication within the 60-day appeal period and we deny that request, we shall extend the time to file an appeal on the merits of the claim to 60 days after the date that we deny the request for readjudication.
(3) After we receive a precedential circuit court decision and determine that an Acquiescence Ruling may be required, we will begin to identify those claims that are pending before us within the circuit and that might be subject to readjudication if an Acquiescence Ruling is subsequently issued. When an Acquiescence Ruling is published, we will send a notice to those individuals whose cases we have identified which may be affected by the Acquiescence Ruling. The notice will provide information about the Acquiescence Ruling and the right to request readjudication under that Acquiescence Ruling, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. It is not necessary for an individual to receive a notice in order to request application of an Acquiescence Ruling to his or her claim, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Relitigation of court's holding after publication of an Acquiescence Ruling.
After we have published an Acquiescence Ruling to reflect a holding of a United States Court of Appeals on an issue, we may decide under certain conditions to relitigate that issue within the same circuit. We may relitigate only when the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section are met, and, in general, one of the events specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section occurs.
(1) Activating events:
(i) An action by both Houses of Congress indicates that a circuit court decision on which an Acquiescence Ruling was based was decided inconsistently with congressional intent, such as may be expressed in a joint resolution, an appropriations restriction, or enactment of legislation which affects a closely analogous body of law;
(ii) A statement in a majority opinion of the same circuit indicates that the court might no longer follow its previous decision if a particular issue were presented again;
(iii) Subsequent circuit court precedent in other circuits supports our interpretation of the Social Security Act or regulations on the issue(s) in question; or
(iv) A subsequent Supreme Court decision presents a reasonable legal basis for questioning a circuit court holding upon which we base an Acquiescence Ruling.
(2) The General Counsel of the Social Security Administration, after consulting with the Department of Justice, concurs that relitigation of an issue and application of our interpretation of the Social Security Act or regulations to selected claims in the administrative review process within the circuit would be appropriate.
(3) We publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that we intend to relitigate an Acquiescence Ruling issue and that we will apply our interpretation of the Social Security Act or regulations within the circuit to claims in the administrative review process selected for relitigation. The notice will explain why we made this decision.
(d)
Notice of relitigation.
When we decide to relitigate an issue, we will provide a notice explaining our action to
all affected claimants. In adjudicating claims subject to relitigation, decisionmakers throughout the SSA administrative review process will apply our interpretation of the Social Security Act and regulations, but will also state in written determinations or decisions how the claims would have been decided under the circuit standard. Claims not subject to relitigation will continue to be decided under the Acquiescence Ruling in accordance with the circuit standard. So that affected claimants can be readily identified and any subsequent decision of the circuit court or the Supreme Court can be implemented quickly and efficiently, we will maintain a listing of all claimants who receive this notice and will provide them with the relief ordered by the court.
(e)
Rescission of an Acquiescence Ruling.
We will rescind as obsolete an Acquiescence Ruling and apply our interpretation of the Social Security Act or regulations by publishing a notice in the
Federal Register
when any of the following events occurs:
(1) The Supreme Court overrules or limits a circuit court holding that was the basis of an Acquiescence Ruling;
(2) A circuit court overrules or limits itself on an issue that was the basis of an Acquiescence Ruling;
(3) A Federal law is enacted that removes the basis for the holding in a decision of a circuit court that was the subject of an Acquiescence Ruling; or
(4) We subsequently clarify, modify or revoke the regulation or ruling that was the subject of a circuit court holding that we determined conflicts with our interpretation of the Social Security Act or regulations, or we subsequently publish a new regulation(s) addressing an issue(s) not previously included in our regulations when that issue(s) was the subject of a circuit court holding that conflicted with our interpretation of the Social Security Act or regulations and that holding was not compelled by the statute or Constitution.
[63 FR 24932, May 6, 1998]

# Reopening and Revising Determinations and Decisions
§ 404.987
Reopening and revising determinations and decisions.
(a)
General.
Generally, if you are dissatisfied with a determination or decision made in the administrative review process, but do not request further review within the stated time period, you lose your right to further review and that determination or decision becomes final. However, a determination or a decision made in your case which is otherwise final and binding may be reopened and revised by us.
(b)
Procedure for reopening and revision.
We may reopen a final determination or decision on our own initiative, or you may ask that a final determination or a decision to which you were a party be reopened. In either instance, if we reopen the determination or decision, we may revise that determination or decision. The conditions under which we may reopen a previous determination or decision, either on our own initiative or at your request, are explained in § 404.988.
[59 FR 8535, Feb. 23, 1994]
§ 404.988
Conditions for reopening.
A determination, revised determination, decision, or revised decision may be reopened—
(a) Within 12 months of the date of the notice of the initial determination, for any reason;
(b) Within four years of the date of the notice of the initial determination if we find good cause, as defined in § 404.989, to reopen the case; or
(c) At any time if—
(1) It was obtained by fraud or similar fault (see § 416.1488(c) of this chapter for factors which we take into account in determining fraud or similar fault);
(2) Another person files a claim on the same earnings record and allowance of the claim adversely affects your claim;
(3) A person previously determined to be dead, and on whose earnings record your entitlement is based, is later found to be alive;
(4) Your claim was denied because you did not prove that a person died, and the death is later established—
(i) By a presumption of death under § 404.721(b); or
(ii) By location or identification of his or her body;
(5) The Railroad Retirement Board has awarded duplicate benefits on the same earnings record;
(6) It either—
(i) Denies the person on whose earnings record your claim is based gratuitous wage credits for military or naval service because another Federal agency (other than the Veterans Administration) has erroneously certified that it has awarded benefits based on the service; or
(ii) Credits the earnings record of the person on which your claim is based with gratuitous wage credits and another Federal agency (other than the Veterans Administration) certifies that it has awarded a benefit based on the period of service for which the wage credits were granted;
(7) It finds that the claimant did not have insured status, but earnings were later credited to his or her earnings record to correct errors apparent on the face of the earnings record (section 205(c)(5)(C) of the Act), to enter items transferred by the Railroad Retirement Board, which were credited under the Railroad Retirement Act when they should have been credited to the claimant's Social Security earnings record (section 205(c)(5)(D) of the Act), or to correct errors made in the allocation of wages or self-employment income to individuals or periods (section 205(c)(5)(G) of the Act), which would have given him or her insured status at the time of the determination or decision if the earnings had been credited to his or her earnings record at that time, and the evidence of these earnings was in our possession or the possession of the Railroad Retirement Board at the time of the determination or decision;
(8) It is fully or partially unfavorable to a party, but only to correct clerical error or an error that appears on the face of the evidence that was considered when the determination or decision was made;
(9) It finds that you are entitled to monthly benefits or to a lump sum death payment based on the earnings of a deceased person, and it is later established that:
(i) You were convicted of a felony or an act in the nature of a felony for intentionally causing that person's death; or
(ii) If you were subject to the juvenile justice system, you were found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have intentionally caused that person's death by committing an act which, if committed by an adult, would have been considered a felony or an act in the nature of a felony;
(10) It either—
(i) Denies the person on whose earnings record your claim is based deemed wages for internment during World War II because of an erroneous finding that a benefit based upon the internment has been determined by an agency of the United States to be payable under another Federal law or under a system established by that agency; or
(ii) Awards the person on whose earnings record your claim is based deemed wages for internment during World War II and a benefit based upon the internment is determined by an agency of the United States to be payable under another Federal law or under a system established by that agency; or
(11) It is incorrect because—
(i) You were convicted of a crime that affected your right to receive benefits or your entitlement to a period of disability; or
(ii) Your conviction of a crime that affected your right to receive benefits or your entitlement to a period of disability is overturned.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 46369, Nov. 26, 1984; 51 FR 18313, May 19, 1986; 59 FR 1635, Jan. 12, 1994; 60 FR 19165, Apr. 17, 1995; 75 FR 33168, June 11, 2010]
§ 404.989
Good cause for reopening.
(a) We will find that there is good cause to reopen a determination or decision if—
(1) New and material evidence is furnished;
(2) A clerical error in the computation or recomputation of benefits was made; or
(3) The evidence that was considered in making the determination or decision clearly shows on its face that an error was made.
(b) We will not find good cause to reopen your case if the only reason for reopening is a change of legal interpretation or administrative ruling upon which the determination or decision was made.
§ 404.990
Finality of determinations and decisions on revision of an earnings record.
A determination or a decision on a revision of an earnings record may be reopened only within the time period and under the conditions provided in section 205(c) (4) or (5) of the Act, or within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the determination or decision, whichever is later.
§ 404.991
Finality of determinations and decisions to suspend benefit payments for entire taxable year because of earnings.
A determination or decision to suspend benefit payments for an entire taxable year because of earnings may be reopened only within the time period and under the conditions provided in section 203(h)(1)(B) of the Act.
§ 404.991a
Late completion of timely investigation.
We may revise a determination or decision after the applicable time period in § 404.988(a) or § 404.988(b) expires if we begin an investigation into whether to revise the determination or decision before the applicable time period expires. We may begin the investigation either based on a request by you or by an action on our part. The investigation is a process of gathering facts after a determination or decision has been reopened to determine if a revision of the determination or decision is applicable.
(a) If we have diligently pursued the investigation to its conclusion, we may revise the determination or decision. The revision may be favorable or unfavorable to you. “Diligently pursued” means that in light of the facts and circumstances of a particular case, the necessary action was undertaken and carried out as promptly as the circumstances permitted. Diligent pursuit will be presumed to have been met if we conclude the investigation and if necessary, revise the determination or decision within 6 months from the date we began the investigation.
(b) If we have not diligently pursued the investigation to its conclusion, we will revise the determination or decision if a revision is applicable and if it will be favorable to you. We will not revise the determination or decision if it will be unfavorable to you.
[49 FR 46369, Nov. 26, 1984; 49 FR 48036, Dec. 10, 1984]
§ 404.992
Notice of revised determination or decision.
(a) When a determination or decision is revised, notice of the revision will be mailed to the parties at their last known address. The notice will state the basis for the revised determination or decision and the effect of the revision. The notice will also inform the parties of the right to further review.
(b) If a reconsidered determination that you are disabled, based on medical factors, is reopened for the purpose of being revised, you will be notified, in writing, of the proposed revision and of your right to request that a disability hearing be held before a revised reconsidered determination is issued. If a revised reconsidered determination is issued, you may request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(c) If an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council proposes to revise a decision, and the revision would be based on evidence not included in the record on which the prior decision was based, you and any other parties to the decision will be notified, in writing, of the proposed action and of your right to request that a hearing be held before any further action is taken. If a revised decision is issued by an administrative law judge, you and any other party may request that it be reviewed by the Appeals Council, or the Appeals Council may review the decision on its own initiative.
(d) If an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council proposes to revise a decision, and the revision would be based only on evidence included in the record on which the prior decision was based, you and any other parties to the decision will be notified, in writing, of the proposed action. If a revised decision is issued by an administrative law
judge, you and any other party may request that it be reviewed by the Appeals Council, or the Appeals Council may review the decision on its own initiative.
[51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.993
Effect of revised determination or decision.
A revised determination or decision is binding unless—
(a) You or another party to the revised determination file a written request for reconsideration or a hearing before an administrative law judge, as appropriate;
(b) You or another party to the revised decision file, as appropriate, a request for review by the Appeals Council or a hearing before an administrative law judge;
(c) The Appeals Council reviews the revised decision; or
(d) The revised determination or decision is further revised.
[51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.994
Time and place to request a hearing on revised determination or decision.
You or another party to a revised determination or decision may request, as appropriate, further review or a hearing on the revision by filing a request in writing at one of our offices within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the revision. Further review or a hearing will be held on the revision according to the rules of this subpart.
§ 404.995
Finality of findings when later claim is filed on same earnings record.
If two claims for benefits are filed on the same earnings records, findings of fact made in a determination on the first claim may be revised in determining or deciding the second claim, even though the time limit for revising the findings made in the first claim has passed. However, a finding in connection with a claim that a person was fully or currently insured at the time of filing an application, at the time of death, or any other pertinent time, may be revised only under the conditions stated in § 404.988.
§ 404.996
Increase in future benefits where time period for reopening expires.
If, after the time period for reopening under § 404.988(b) has ended, new evidence is furnished showing a different date of birth or additional earnings for you (or for the person on whose earnings record your claim was based) which would otherwise increase the amount of your benefits, we will make the increase (subject to the limitations provided in section 205(c) (4) and (5) of the Act) but only for benefits payable after the time we received the new evidence. (If the new evidence we receive would lead to a decrease in your benefits, we will take no action if we cannot reopen under § 404.988.)
[49 FR 46369, Nov. 26, 1984]

# Payment of Certain Travel Expenses
§ 404.999a
Payment of certain travel expenses—general.
When you file a claim for Social Security benefits, you may incur certain travel expenses in pursuing your claim. Sections 404.999b-404.999d explain who may be reimbursed for travel expenses, the types of travel expenses that are reimbursable, and when and how to claim reimbursement. Generally, the agency that requests you to travel will be the agency that reimburses you. No later than when it notifies you of the examination or hearing described in § 404.999b(a), that agency will give you information about the right to travel reimbursement, the right to advance payment and how to request it, the rules on means of travel and unusual travel costs, and the need to submit receipts.
[51 FR 8808, Mar. 14, 1986]
§ 404.999b
Who may be reimbursed.
(a) The following individuals may be reimbursed for certain travel expenses—
(1) You, when you attend medical examinations upon request in connection with disability determinations; these are medical examinations requested by the State agency or by us when additional medical evidence is necessary to make a disability determination (also
referred to as consultative examinations, see § 404.1517);
(2) You, your representative (see § 404.1705 (a) and (b)), and all unsubpoenaed witnesses we or the State agency determines to be reasonably necessary who attend disability hearings; and
(3) You, your representative, and all unsubpoenaed witnesses we determine to be reasonably necessary who attend hearings on any claim for benefits before an administrative law judge.
(b) Sections 404.999a through 404.999d do not apply to subpoenaed witnesses. They are reimbursed under §§ 404.950(d) and 404.916(b)(1).
[51 FR 8808, Mar. 14, 1986]
§ 404.999c
What travel expenses are reimbursable.
Reimbursable travel expenses include the ordinary expenses of public or private transportation as well as unusual costs due to special circumstances.
(a) Reimbursement for ordinary travel expenses is limited—
(1) To the cost of travel by the most economical and expeditious means of transportation available and appropriate to the individual's condition of health as determined by the State agency or by us, considering the available means in the following order—
(i) Common carrier (air, rail, or bus);
(ii) Privately owned vehicles;
(iii) Commercially rented vehicles and other special conveyances;
(2) If air travel is necessary, to the coach fare for air travel between the specified travel points involved unless first-class air travel is authorized in advance by the State agency or by the Secretary in instances when—
(i) Space is not available in less-than-first-class accommodations on any scheduled flights in time to accomplish the purpose of the travel;
(ii) First-class accommodations are necessary because you, your representative, or reasonably necessary witness is so handicapped or otherwise impaired that other accommodations are not practical and the impairment is substantiated by competent medical authority;
(iii) Less-than-first-class accommodations on foreign carriers do not provide adequate sanitation or health standards; or
(iv) The use of first-class accommodations would result in an overall savings to the government based on economic considerations, such as the avoidance of additional subsistence costs that would be incurred while awaiting availability of less-than-first-class accommodations.
(b) Unusual travel costs may be reimbursed but must be authorized in advance and in writing by us or the appropriate State official, as applicable, unless they are unexpected or unavoidable; we or the State agency must determine their reasonableness and necessity and must approve them before payment can be made. Unusual expenses that may be covered in connection with travel include, but are not limited to—
(1) Ambulance services;
(2) Attendant services;
(3) Meals;
(4) Lodging; and
(5) Taxicabs.
(c) If we reimburse you for travel, we apply the rules in §§ 404.999b through 404.999d and the same rates and conditions of payment that govern travel expenses for Federal employees as authorized under 41 CFR chapter 301. If a State agency reimburses you, the reimbursement rates shall be determined by the rules in §§ 404.999b through 404.999d and that agency's rules and regulations and may differ from one agency to another and also may differ from the Federal reimbursement rates.
(1) When public transportation is used, reimbursement will be made for the actual costs incurred, subject to the restrictions in paragraph (a)(2) of this section on reimbursement for first-class air travel.
(2) When travel is by a privately owned vehicle, reimbursement will be made at the current Federal or State mileage rate specified for that geographic location plus the actual costs of tolls and parking, if travel by a privately owned vehicle is determined appropriate under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Otherwise, the amount of reimbursement for travel by privately owned vehicle cannot exceed the total cost of the most economical public transportation available for travel between the same two points.
Total cost
includes the cost for all the authorized
travelers who travel in the same privately owned vehicle. Advance approval of travel by privately owned vehicle is not required (but could give you assurance of its approval).
(3) Sometimes your health condition dictates a mode of transportation different from the most economical and expeditious. In order for your health to require a mode of transportation other than common carrier or passenger car, you must be so handicapped or otherwise impaired as to require special transportation arrangements and the conditions must be substantiated by competent medical authority.
(d) For travel to a hearing—
(1) Reimbursement is limited to travel within the U.S. For this purpose, the U.S. includes the U.S. as defined in § 404.2(c)(6) and the Northern Mariana Islands.
(2) We or the State agency will reimburse you, your representative, or an unsubpoenaed witness only if the distance from the person's residence or office (whichever he or she travels from) to the hearing site exceeds 75 miles.
(3) For travel expenses incurred on or after April 1, 1991, the amount of reimbursement under this section for travel by your representative to attend a disability hearing or a hearing before an administrative law judge shall not exceed the maximum amount allowable under this section for travel to the hearing site from any point within the geographic area of the office having jurisdiction over the hearing.
(i) The geographic area of the office having jurisdiction over the hearing means, as appropriate—
(A) The designated geographic service area of the State agency adjudicatory unit having responsibility for providing the disability hearing;
(B) If a Federal disability hearing officer holds the disability hearing, the geographic area of the State (which includes a State as defined in § 404.2(c)(5) and also includes the Northern Mariana Islands) in which the claimant resides or, if the claimant is not a resident of a State, in which the hearing officer holds the disability hearing; or
(C) The designated geographic service area of the Office of Hearings Operations hearing office having responsibility for providing the hearing.
(ii) We or the State agency determine the maximum amount allowable for travel by a representative based on the distance to the hearing site from the farthest point within the appropriate geographic area. In determining the maximum amount allowable for travel between these two points, we or the State agency apply the rules in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section and the limitations in paragraph (d) (1) and (4) of this section. If the distance between these two points does not exceed 75 miles, we or the State agency will not reimburse any of your representative's travel expenses.
(4) If a change in the location of the hearing is made at your request from the location we or the State agency selected to one farther from your residence or office, neither your additional travel expenses nor the additional travel expenses of your representative and witnesses will be reimbursed.
[51 FR 8808, Mar. 14, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 8532, Feb. 23, 1994; 85 FR 73158, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 404.999d
When and how to claim reimbursement.
(a)(1) Generally, you will be reimbursed for your expenses after your trip. However, travel advances may be authorized if you request prepayment and show that the requested advance is reasonable and necessary.
(2) You must submit to us or the State agency, as appropriate, an itemized list of what you spent and supporting receipts to be reimbursed.
(3) Arrangements for special means of transportation and related unusual costs may be made only if we or the State agency authorizes the costs in writing in advance of travel, unless the costs are unexpected or unavoidable. If they are unexpected or unavoidable we or the State agency must determine their reasonableness and necessity and must approve them before payment may be made.
(4) If you receive prepayment, you must, within 20 days after your trip, provide to us or the State agency, as appropriate, an itemized list of your actual travel costs and submit supporting receipts. We or the State agency will require you to pay back any balance of the advanced amount that
exceeds any approved travel expenses within 20 days after you are notified of the amount of that balance. (State agencies may have their own time limits in place of the 20-day periods in the preceding two sentences.)
(b) You may claim reimbursable travel expenses incurred by your representative for which you have been billed by your representative, except that if your representative makes a claim for them to us or the State, he or she will be reimbursed directly.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0434)
[51 FR 8809, Mar. 14, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 44983, Dec. 16, 1986]

# Subpart K—Employment, Wages, Self-Employment, and Self-Employment Income

# Authority:
Secs. 202(v), 205(a), 209, 210, 211, 229(a), 230, 231, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402(v), 405(a), 409, 410, 411, 429(a), 430, 431, and 902(a)(5)) and 48 U.S.C.1801.

# Source:
45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.1001
Introduction.
(a)(1) In general, your social security benefits are based on your earnings that are on our records. (Subpart I of this part explains how we keep earnings records.) Basically, you receive credit only for earnings that are covered for social security purposes. The earnings are covered only if your work is covered. If you are an employee, your employer files a report of your covered earnings. If you are self-employed, you file a report of your covered earnings. Some work is covered by social security and some work is not. Also, some earnings are covered by social security and some are not. It is important that you are aware of what kinds of work and earnings are covered so that you will know whether your earnings should be on our records.
(2) If you are an employee, your covered work is called
employment.
This subpart explains our rules on the kinds of work that are covered as
employment
and the kinds that are not. We also explain who is an employee.
(3) If your work is
employment,
your covered earnings are called
wages.
This subpart explains our rules on the kinds of earnings that are covered as
wages
and the kinds that are not.
(4) If you work for yourself, you are self-employed. The subpart explains our rules on the kinds of self-employment that are covered and the kinds that are not.
(5) If you are self-employed, your covered earnings are called
self-employment income
which is based on your
net earnings from self-employment
during a taxable year. This subpart explains our rules on the kinds of earnings that are covered as
net earnings from self-employment
and the kinds that are not. We also explain how to figure your
net earnings from self-employment
and determine your
self-employment income
which is the amount that goes on our records.
(b) We include basically only the rules that apply to current work or that the law requires us to publish as regulations. We generally do not include rules that are seldom used or do not apply to current work because of changes in the law.
(c) The Social Security Act and the Internal Revenue Code (Code) have similar provisions on coverage of your earnings because the one law specifies the earnings for which you will receive credit for benefit purposes and the other the earnings on which you must pay social security taxes. Because the Code (title 26 U.S.C.) has some provisions that are not in the Act but which may affect you, you may need to refer to the Code or the Internal Revenue Service regulations (title 26 of the Code of Federal Regulations) to get complete information about your social security coverage.
(d) The rules are organized in the following manner:
(1) Sections 404.1003 through 404.1010 include the rules on employment. We discuss what we mean by employment, what work is covered as employment for social security purposes, and describe the kinds of workers who are considered employees.
(2) In §§ 404.1012 through 404.1038 we discuss various types of work that are not covered as employment for social security purposes.
(3) The rules on wages are found in §§ 404.1041 through 404.1059. We describe what is meant by the term
wages,
discuss the various types of pay that count as wages, and state when the pay counts for Social Security purposes. We include explanations of agriculture labor, domestic services, service not in the course of the employer's business, and home worker services under
wages
because special standards apply to these services.
(4) Our rules on self-employment and self-employment income are found in §§ 404.1065 through 404.1096. We discuss what we mean by self-employment, what we mean by a trade or business, what types of activities are considered self-employment, how to determine self-employment income, and how net earnings from self-employment are figured.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 7309, Mar. 1, 1990; 61 FR 38365, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1002
Definitions.
(a)
General definitions.
As used in this subpart—
The
Act
means the Social Security Act, as amended.
The
Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.
We, our,
or
us
means the Social Security Administration.
You
or
your
means any person whose earnings from employment or self-employment are included or excluded under social security.
(b)
Other definitions.
For ease of reference, we have placed other definitions in the sections of this subpart in which they are used.

# Employment
§ 404.1003
Employment.
Employment means, generally, any service covered by social security performed by an employee for his or her employer. The rules on who is an employee and who is an employer are contained in §§ 404.1005 through 404.1010. Section 404.1004 states the general rule on the kinds of work covered as employment. Exceptions to the general rule are contained in §§ 404.1012 through 404.1038 which explain the kinds of work excluded from employment. All of these rules apply to current work unless otherwise indicated.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 38365, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1004
What work is covered as employment?
(a)
General requirements of employment.
Unless otherwise excluded from coverage under §§ 404.1012 through 404.1038, the work you perform as an employee for your employer is covered as employment under social security if one of the following situations applies:
(1) You perform the work within the United States (whether or not you or your employer are a citizen or resident of the United States).
(2) You perform the work outside the United States and you are a citizen or resident of the United States working for—
(i) An American employer; or
(ii) A foreign affiliate of an American employer that has in effect an agreement covering your work under section 3121(l) of the Code.
(3) You perform the work on or in connection with an American vessel or American aircraft and the conditions in paragraphs (a)(3) (i) and (ii) are met. Your citizenship or residence does not matter. The citizenship or residence of your employer matters only if it affects whether the vessel is an American vessel.
(i) You enter into the contract of employment within the United States or the vessel or aircraft touches at a port or airport within the United States during the performance of your contract of employment on the vessel or aircraft.
(ii) You are employed on and in connection with the vessel or aircraft when outside the United States.
(4) Your work is designated as employment or recognized as equivalent to employment under a totalization agreement. (See § 404.1913. An agreement may exempt work from coverage as well as extend coverage to work.)
(5) Your work performed after December 31, 1994, is in the employ of an international organization pursuant to a transfer from a Federal agency under section 3582 of title 5 of the United States Code and both the following are met:
(i) Immediately before the transfer, your work for the Federal agency was covered employment; and
(ii) You would be entitled, upon separation from the international organization and proper application, to reemployment with the Federal agency under section 3582.
(b)
Explanation of terms used in this section
—(1)
American employer
means—
(i) The United States or any of its instrumentalities;
(ii) A State, a political subdivision of a State, or an instrumentality of any one or more States or political subdivisions of a State;
(iii) An individual who is a resident of the United States;
(iv) A partnership, if at least two-thirds of the partners are residents of the United States;
(v) A trust, if all of the trustees are residents of the United States; or
(vi) A corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(2)
American aircraft
means an aircraft registered under the laws of the United States.
(3)
American vessel
means a vessel documented or numbered under the laws of the United States. It also includes a vessel neither documented nor numbered under the laws of the United States, nor documented under the laws of any foreign country, if its crew is employed solely by one or more citizens or residents of the United States, or corporations organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(4)
Citizen of the United States
includes a citizen of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(5)
Foreign affiliate
refers to a foreign affiliate as defined in section 3121(l)(6) of the Code.
(6)
On and in connection with
refers to the performance of work on a vessel or aircraft which concerns the vessel or aircraft. Examples of this kind of work are the services performed on a vessel by employees as officers or crew members, or as employees of concessionaires, of the vessel.
(7)
On or in connection with
refers to work performed on the vessel or aircraft and to work which concerns the vessel or aircraft but not actually performed on it. For example, shore services in connection with repairing, loading, unloading, or provisioning a vessel performed by employees as officers or crew members, or as employees of concessionaires, of the vessel are included, since this work concerns the vessel though not performed on it.
(8)
State
refers to the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(9)
United States
when used in a geographical sense means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 36573, Sept. 9, 1985; 55 FR 51687, Dec. 17, 1990; 61 FR 38365, July 24, 1996; 69 FR 51555, Aug. 20, 2004]
§ 404.1005
Who is an employee.
You must be an employee for your work to be covered as employment for social security purposes. You are an employee if you are—
(a) A corporation officer as described in § 404.1006;
(b) A common-law employee as described in § 404.1007 (unless you are, after December 31, 1982, a qualified real estate agent or direct seller as described in § 404.1069); or
(c) An agent-driver or commission-driver, a full-time life insurance salesman, a home worker, or a traveling or city salesman as described in § 404.1008.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 40515, Sept. 8, 1983]
§ 404.1006
Corporation officer.
If you are an officer of a corporation, you are an employee of the corporation if you are paid or you are entitled to be paid for holding office or performing services. However, if you are a director of a corporation, we consider you to be self-employed when you work as a director.
§ 404.1007
Common-law employee.
(a)
General.
The common-law rules on employer-employee status are the basic test for determining whether you and the person or firm you work for have the relationship of employee and employer. Even though you are considered self-employed under the common-law rules, you may still be an employee for social security purposes under § 404.1006 (relating to corporation officers) or § 404.1008 (relating to workers in four specific jobs). In general, you are a common-law employee if the person you work for may tell you what to do and how, when, and where to do it. The person or firm you work for does not have to give these orders, but needs only the right to do so. Whether or not you are a common-law employee is not always clear. Several aspects of your job arrangement are considered in determining whether you are an employee or are self-employed under the common-law rules.
(b)
Factors that show employee status.
Some aspects of a job arrangement that may show you are an employee are as follows:
(1) The person you work for may fire you.
(2) The person you work for furnishes you with tools or equipment and a place to work.
(3) You receive training from the person you work for or are required to follow that person's instructions.
(4) You must do the work yourself.
(5) You do not hire, supervise, or pay assistants (unless you are employed as a foreman, manager, or supervisor).
(6) The person you work for sets your hours of work, requires you to work full-time, or restricts you from doing work for others.
(7) The person you work for pays your business or traveling expenses.
(8) You are paid by the hour, week or month.
(c)
Factors that show self-employed status.
Some aspects of a job arrangement or business venture that may show you are self-employed are as follows:
(1) You make a profit or suffer a loss.
(2) You are hired to complete a certain job and if you quit before the job is completed you may be liable for damages.
(3) You work for a number of persons or firms at the same time.
(4) You advertise to the general public that you are available to perform services.
(5) You pay your own expenses and have your own equipment and work place.
(d)
Questions about your status.
If there is a question about whether you are working as an employee or are self-employed, we or the Internal Revenue Service will make a determination after examining all of the facts of your case.
§ 404.1008
Agent-driver or commission-driver, full-time life insurance salesman, home worker, or traveling or city salesman.
(a)
General.
In addition to common-law employees and corporation officers, we consider workers in the four types of jobs described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section to be employees if their services are performed under the following conditions:
(1) Under the work arrangement the worker is expected to do substantially all of the work personally.
(2) The worker must not have a substantial investment in the facilities used to do the work. Facilities include such things as a place to work, storage space, equipment, machinery and office furniture. However, facilities do not include tools, equipment or clothing of the kind usually provided by employees nor transportation such as a car or truck.
(3) The work must be performed as part of a continuing work relationship between the worker and the person for whom the work is done. The work performed must not be a single transaction. Part-time and regular seasonal work may be performed as part of a continuing work relationship.
(b)
Agent-driver or commission-driver.
This is a driver hired by another person to distribute meat products, vegetable products, fruit products, bakery products, beverages (other than milk), or laundry or dry-cleaning services. We consider you an agent-driver or commission-driver if you are paid a commission based on your sales or the difference between the price you charge your customers and the amount you
pay for the goods or services. It makes no difference whether you drive your own truck or the company's truck or whether you solicit the customers you serve.
(c)
Full-time life insurance salesman.
A full-time life insurance salesman's main activity is selling life insurance or annuity contracts, or both, mostly for one life insurance company. If you are a full-time life insurance salesman, you are probably provided office space, stenographic help, telephone, forms, rate books and advertising materials by the company or general agent, without cost to you.
(d)
Home worker.
A home worker is a person who works away from the place of business of the person he or she works for, usually at home. If you are a home worker and you work according to the instructions of the person you work for, on material or goods furnished by that person, and are required to return the finished product to that person (or another person whom he or she designates), you are an employee.
(e)
Traveling or city salesman.
The main activity of a traveling or city salesman is taking orders for merchandise for another person or firm. The salesman gets orders from wholesalers, retailers, contractors, or operators of hotels, restaurants or other firms whose main business is furnishing food or lodging or both. The salesman sells merchandise to others for resale or for use in their own business. We consider you a traveling or city salesman if most of your work is done for a single person or firm even though you have incidental sideline sales activities. However, you are not an employee under this paragraph as to those sideline sales. If you take orders for a number of persons or firms as a
multiple line
salesman, you are not a traveling or city salesman.
§ 404.1009
Who is an employer.
A person is an employer if he or she employs at least one employee. Sometimes it is not clear who a worker's employer is, since the employer does not always pay the worker's wages. When there is a question about who the employer is, we use the common-law rules to identify the employer (see § 404.1007).
§ 404.1010
Farm crew leader as employer.
A farm crew leader furnishes workers to do agricultural labor for another person, usually a farm operator. If the crew leader pays the workers (the money can be the crew leader's or the farm operator's), the crew leader is deemed to be the employer of the workers and is self-employed. However, the crew leader is not deemed the employer of the workers if there is a written agreement between the crew leader and the farm operator naming the crew leader as an employee. If the crew leader does not have this agreement and does not pay the workers, we use the common-law rules to determine the crew leader's status.

# Work Excluded From Employment
§ 404.1012
Work excluded from employment.
Certain kinds of work performed by an employee are excluded from employment. They are described in §§ 404.1014 through 404.1038 and are exceptions to the general rule in § 404.1004 on the kinds of work that are covered as employment. In general, if the work performed by an employee is excluded from employment, the work is not covered under social security. However, certain kinds of work performed by an employee, even though excluded from employment, are covered as self-employment for social security purposes. In addition, if part of the work performed by an employee for the same employer is included as employment and part is excluded from employment, all the work may be included or all may be excluded as described in § 404.1013.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 38365, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1013
Included-excluded rule.
(a) If part of your work for an employer during a pay period is covered as employment and part excluded, all of your work during that period is considered covered if at least one-half of your time in the pay period is in covered work. If you spend most of your time in a pay period doing work that is excluded, all of your work in that period is excluded.
(b) A
pay period
is the period for which your employer ordinarily pays you. It cannot be more than 31 consecutive days. If the actual period is not always the same, your usual pay period will be used for applying the included-excluded rule.
(c) The included-excluded rule does not apply and your covered work will be counted if—
(1) Part of your work is covered by the Railroad Retirement Tax Act and part by the Social Security Act; or
(2) You have no usual
pay period
of 31 consecutive days or less, or you have separate pay periods for covered and excluded work.
§ 404.1014
Domestic service by a student for a local college club, fraternity or sorority.
(a)
General.
If you are a student and do work of a household nature in or about the club rooms or house of a local college club or local chapter of a college fraternity or sorority, and are enrolled and regularly attending classes at a school, college, or university, your work is not covered as employment.
(b)
Explanation of terms
—(1)
Work of a household nature
means the type of work done by cooks, waiters, butlers, maids, janitors, laundresses, furnacemen, handymen, gardeners, housekeepers and housemothers.
(2) A
local college club or local chapter of a college fraternity or sorority
does not include an alumni club or chapter. Also, if the club rooms or house are used mostly for supplying board or lodging to students or nonstudents as a business, the work done is not excluded by this section.
§ 404.1015
Family services.
(a)
General.
If you work as an employee of a relative, the work is excluded from employment if—
(1) You work while under age 18 in the employ of your parent;
(2) You do nonbusiness work (see § 404.1058(a)(3) for an explanation of nonbusiness work) or perform domestic service (as described in § 404.1057(b)) as an employee of your parent while under age 21;
(3) You do nonbusiness work as an employee of your son, daughter, or spouse; or
(4) You perform domestic service in the private home of your son, daughter or spouse as an employee of that son, daughter or spouse unless—
(i) The son or daughter has a child (either natural, adopted or stepchild) living in the home who is under age 18 or, if older, has a mental or physical condition that requires the personal care and supervision of an adult for at least four continuous weeks in the calendar quarter in which the work is done; and
(ii) The son or daughter is a widower or widow, or is divorced and has not remarried, or has a spouse living in the home who, because of a physical or mental condition, is incapable of taking care of the child and the condition is present for at least four continuous weeks in the calendar quarter in which the work is done.
(b)
Family work for other than sole proprietor.
Work for a corporation is not excluded under this section, and work for a partnership is not excluded unless the required family relationship exists between the employee and each of the partners.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59913, Dec. 17, 1992]
§ 404.1016
Foreign agricultural workers.
Farm work done by foreign workers lawfully admitted to the United States on a temporary basis to do farm work is not covered as employment. The excluded work includes any services connected with farm operations.
§ 404.1017
Sharefarmers.
(a) If you are a sharefarmer, your services are not covered as employment, but as self-employment.
(b) You are a sharefarmer if you have an arrangement with the owner or tenant of the land and the arrangement provides for all of the following:
(1) You will produce agricultural or horticultural commodities on the land.
(2) The commodities you produce or the income from their sale will be divided between you and the person with whom you have the agreement.
(3) The amount of your share depends on the amount of commodities you produce.
(c) If under your agreement you are to receive a specific rate of pay, a fixed sum of money or a specific amount of the commodities not based on your production, you are not a sharefarmer for social security purposes.
§ 404.1018
Work by civilians for the United States Government or its instrumentalities—wages paid after 1983.
(a)
General.
If you are a civilian employee of the United States Government or an instrumentality of the United States, your employer will determine the amount of remuneration paid for your work and the periods in or for which such remuneration was paid. We will determine whether your employment is covered under Social Security, the periods of such covered employment, and whether remuneration paid for your work constitutes wages for purposes of Social Security. To make these determinations we will consider the date of your appointment to Federal service, your previous Federal employing agencies and positions (if any), whether you were covered under Social Security or a Federal civilian retirement system, and whether you made a timely election to join a retirement system established by the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 or the Foreign Service Pension System Act of 1986. Using this information and the following rules, we will determine that your service is covered unless—
(1) The service would have been excluded if the rules in effect in January 1983 had remained in effect; and
(i) You have been continuously performing such service since December 31, 1983; or
(ii) You are receiving an annuity from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or benefits for service as an employee under another retirement system established by a law of the United States and in effect on December 31, 1983, for employees of the Federal Government other than a system for members of the uniformed services.
(2) The service is under the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 294, relating to the assignment of retired Federal justices and judges to active duty.
(b)
Covered services
—(1)
Federal officials.
Any service for which you received remuneration after 1983 is covered if performed—
(i) As the President or the Vice President of the United States;
(ii) In a position placed in the Executive Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 5312 through 5317;
(iii) As a noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive Service or a noncareer member of the Senior Foreign Service;
(iv) In a position to which you are appointed by the President, or his designee, or the Vice President under 3 U.S.C. 105(a)(1), 106(a)(1), or 107(a)(1) or (b)(1) if the maximum rate of basic pay for such position is at or above the rate for level V of the Executive Schedule;
(v) As the Chief Justice of the United States, an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, a judge of a United States court of appeals, a judge of a United States district court, including the district court of a territory, a judge of the United States Claims Court, a judge of the United States Court of International Trade, a judge of the United States Tax Court, a United States magistrate, or a referee in bankruptcy or United States bankruptcy judge; or
(vi) As a Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of or to the Congress.
(2)
Legislative Branch Employees.
Service you perform for the legislative branch of the Federal Government for which you are paid remuneration after 1983 is generally covered by Social Security if such service is not covered by the Civil Service Retirement System or by another retirement system established by a law of the United States and in effect on December 31, 1983, for employees of the Federal Government other than a system for members of the uniformed services.
(3)
Election to become subject to the Federal Employees' Retirement System or the Foreign Service Pension System.
Your service is covered if:
(i) You timely elect after June 30, 1987, under either the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act or the
Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act, to become subject to the Federal Employees Retirement System provided in 5 U.S.C. 8401 through 8479; or
(ii) You timely elect after June 30, 1987, to become subject to the Foreign Service Pension System provided in 22 U.S.C. 4071 through 4071(k).
(4)
Subsequent Federal civilian service.
If you perform Federal civilian service on or after November 10, 1988, which is described in paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section you will continue to be covered for any subsequent Federal Civilian Service not excluded under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Excluded Service.
Notwithstanding § 404.1018a and this section, your service is not covered if performed—
(1) In a penal institution of the United States as an inmate thereof;
(2) As an employee included under 5 U.S.C. 5351(2) relating to certain interns, student nurses, and other student employees of hospitals of the Federal Government, other than as a medical or dental intern or a medical or dental resident in training;
(3) As an employee serving on a temporary basis in case of fire, storm, earthquake, flood, or other similar emergency; or
(4) Under any other statutory provisions that would require exclusion for reasons other than being in the employ of the Federal Government or an instrumentality of such.
(d)
Work as a Peace Corps Volunteer.
Work performed as a volunteer or volunteer leader within the meaning of the Peace Corps Act, 22 U.S.C. 2501 through 2523, is covered as employment.
(e)
Work as Job Corps Enrollee.
Work performed as an enrollee in the Job Corps is considered to be performed in the employ of the United States.
(f)
Work by Volunteer in Service to America.
Work performed and training received as a Volunteer in Service to America is considered to be performed in the employ of the United States if the volunteer is enrolled for a period of service of at least 1 year. If the enrollment is for less than 1 year, we use the common-law rules in § 404.1007 to determine the volunteer's status.
(g)
Work for international organizations.
Work performed for an international organization by an employee who was transferred from a Federal agency is generally covered as employment if, immediately before the transfer, the employee's services for the Federal agency were covered. (See §§ 404.1004(a)(5) and 404.1034(c).)
(h)
Meaning of “continuously performing”
—(1)
Absence of less than 366 days.
You are considered to be continuously performing service described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section if you return to the performance of such service after being separated from such service for a period of less than 366 consecutive days, regardless of whether the period began before, on, or after December 31, 1983.
(2)
Other absences.
You are considered to be continuously performing service described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section regardless of the length of separation or whether the period of separation began before, on, or after December 31, 1983, if you—
(i) Return to the performance of such service after being detailed or transferred from such service to an international organization as described under 5 U.S.C. 3343 or under 5 U.S.C. 3581;
(ii) Are reemployed or reinstated after being separated from such service for the purpose of accepting employment with the American Institute of Taiwan as provided under 22 U.S.C. 3310;
(iii) Return to the performance of such service after performing service as a member of a uniformed service including service in the National Guard and temporary service in the Coast Guard Reserve and after exercising restoration or reemployment rights as provided under 38 U.S.C. chapter 43; or
(iv) Return to the performance of such service after employment by a tribal organization to which section 105(e)(2) of the Indian Self-Determination Act applies.
[53 FR 38944, Oct. 4, 1988; 53 FR 44551, Nov. 3, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 24891, June 19, 1990; 61 FR 38365, July 24, 1996; 79 FR 33684, June 12, 2014]
§ 404.1018a
Work by civilians for the United States Government or its instrumentalities—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
(a)
General—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
If you worked as a civilian employee of the United States Government or an instrumentality of the United States, your work was excluded from employment if that work was covered by a retirement system established by law. Your work for an instrumentality that was exempt from Social Security tax was also excluded. Certain other work for the United States or an instrumentality of the United States was specifically excluded and is described in this section.
(b)
Work covered by a retirement system—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
Work you did as an employee of the United States or an instrumentality of the United States was excluded from employment if the work was covered by a retirement system established by a law of the United States. If you had a choice as to whether your work was covered by the retirement system, the work was not covered by that system until you chose that coverage. In order for the exclusion to apply, the work you did, rather than the position you held, must have been covered by the retirement system.
(c)
Work that was specifically excluded—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
Work performed by an employee of the United States or an instrumentality of the United States was excluded if it was done—
(1) As the President or Vice President of the United States;
(2) As a Member of the United States Congress, a Delegate to Congress, or a Resident Commissioner;
(3) In the legislative branch of the United States Government;
(4) By a student nurse, student dietitian, student physical therapist or student occupational therapist who was assigned or attached to a Federal hospital, clinic, or medical or dental laboratory;
(5) By a person designated as a student employee with the approval of the Office of Personnel Management who was assigned or attached primarily for training purposes to a Federal hospital, clinic, or medical or dental laboratory, other than a medical or dental intern or resident in training;
(6) By an employee who served on a temporary basis in case of fire, storm, earthquake, flood, or other similar emergency;
(7) By a person to whom the Civil Service Retirement Act did not apply because the person's services were subject to another retirement system established by a law of the United States or by the instrumentality of the United States for which the work was done, other than the retirement system established by the Tennessee Valley Authority under the plan approved by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare on December 28, 1956; or
(8) By an inmate of a penal institution of the United States, if the work was done in the penal institution.
(d)
Work for instrumentalities of the United States exempt from employer tax—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
(1) Work performed by an employee of an instrumentality of the United States was excluded if—
(i) The instrumentality was exempt from the employer tax imposed by section 3111 of the Code or by section 1410 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939; and
(ii) The exemption was authorized by another law specifically referring to these sections.
(2) Work performed by an employee of an instrumentality of the United States was excluded if the instrumentality was not on December 31, 1950, subject to the employer tax imposed by section 1410 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 and the work was covered by a retirement system established by the instrumentality, unless—
(i) The work was for a corporation wholly owned by the United States;
(ii) The work was for a Federal land bank association, a production credit association, a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal Credit Union, a Federal land bank, a Federal intermediate credit bank, a bank for cooperatives, or a Federal Home Loan Bank;
(iii) The work was for a State, county, or community committee under the Agriculture Marketing Service and the Commodity Stabilization Service, formerly the Production and Marketing Administration; or
(iv) The work was by a civilian, who was not paid from funds appropriated by the Congress, in activities conducted by an instrumentality of the United States subject to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense or Secretary of Transportation at installations intended for the comfort, pleasure, contentment, and mental and physical improvement of personnel of the Defense Department or the Coast Guard, such as—
(A) Army and Air Force Exchange Service;
(B) Army and Air Force Motion Picture Service;
(C) Coast Guard Exchanges;
(D) Navy Ship's Service Stores; and
(E) Marine Corps Post Exchanges.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, if an employee has a choice as to whether his or her work was covered by a retirement system, the work was not covered by that system until he or she chose that coverage. The work done, rather than the position held, must have been covered by the retirement system.
(e)
Work as a Peace Corps Volunteer—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
Work performed as a volunteer or volunteer leader within the meaning of the Peace Corps Act, 22 U.S.C. 2501 through 2523, was covered as employment.
(f)
Work as Job Corps Enrollee—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
Work performed as an enrollee in the Job Corps was considered to be performed in the employ of the United States.
(g)
Work by Volunteer in Service to America—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
Work performed and training received as a Volunteer in Service to America was considered to be performed in the employ of the United States if the volunteer was enrolled for a period of service of at least one year. If the enrollment was for less than one year, we used the common-law rules in § 404.1007 to determine the volunteer's status.
[53 FR 38945, Oct. 4, 1988]
§ 404.1018b
Medicare qualified government employment.
(a)
General.
The work of a Federal, State, or local government employee not otherwise subject to Social Security coverage may constitute Medicare qualified government employment. Medicare qualified government employment means any service which in all ways meets the definition of “employment” for title II purposes of the Social Security Act, except for the fact that the service was performed by a Federal, State or local government employee. This employment is used solely in determining eligibility for protection under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Hospital Insurance) and for coverage under the Medicare program for end-stage renal disease.
(b)
Federal employment.
If, beginning with remuneration paid after 1982, your service as a Federal employee is not otherwise covered employment under the Social Security Act, it is Medicare qualified government employment unless excluded under § 404.1018(c).
(c)
State and local government employment.
If, beginning with service performed after March 31, 1986, your service as an employee of a State or political subdivision (as defined in § 404.1202(b)), Guam, American Samoa, the District of Columbia, or the Northern Mariana Islands is excluded from covered employment solely because of section 210(a)(7) of the Social Security Act which pertains to employees of State and local governments (note §§ 404.1020 through 404.1022), it is Medicare qualified government employment except as provided in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section.
(1) An individual's service shall not be treated as employment if performed—
(i) By an individual employed by a State or political subdivision for the purpose of relieving that individual from unemployment;
(ii) In a hospital, home, or other institution by a patient or inmate thereof as an employee of a State, political subdivision, or of the District of Columbia;
(iii) By an individual, as an employee of a State, political subdivision or the District of Columbia serving on a temporary basis in case of fire, storm, snow, earthquake, flood, or other similar emergency;
(iv) By an individual as an employee included under 5 U.S.C. 5351(2) (relating to certain interns, student nurses, and other student employees of hospitals of
the District of Columbia government), other than as a medical or dental intern or a medical or dental resident in training; or
(v) By an election official or election worker paid less than $100 in a calendar year for such service prior to 1995, or less than $1,000 for service performed in any calendar year after 1994 and before 2000, or, for service performed in any calendar year after 1999, less than the $1,000 base amount, as adjusted pursuant to section 218(c)(8)(B) of the Social Security Act to reflect changes in wages in the economy. We will publish this adjustment of the $1,000 base amount in the
Federal Register
on or before November 1 preceding the year for which the adjustment is made.
(2) An individual's service performed for an employer shall not be treated as employment if—
(i) The service would be excluded from coverage under section 210(a)(7) of the Social Security Act which pertains to employees of State and local governments;
(ii) The service is performed by an individual who—
(A) Was performing substantial and regular service for remuneration for that employer before April 1, 1986;
(B) Was a bona fide employee of that employer on March 31, 1986; and
(C) Did not enter into the employment relationship with that employer for purposes of meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section; and
(iii) After March 31, 1986, but prior to the service being performed, the employment relationship with that employer had not been terminated.
[57 FR 59913, Dec. 17, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 38366, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1019
Work as a member of a uniformed service of the United States.
(a) Your work as a member of a uniformed service of the United States is covered under Social Security (unless creditable under the Railroad Retirement Act), if—
(1) On or after January 1, 1957, the work is service on active duty or active duty for training but not including service performed while on leave without pay; or
(2) On or after January 1, 1988, the work is service on inactive duty training.
(b) You are a
member of a uniformed service
if—
(1) You are appointed, enlisted, or inducted into (or a retired member of)—
(i) One of the armed services (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard); or
(ii) A component of one of the armed services, including any reserve component as defined in Veterans' Benefits, 38 U.S.C. 101 (except the Coast Guard Reserve as a temporary member);
(2) You are a commissioned officer (including a retired commissioned officer) of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service;
(3) You are a member of the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve;
(4) You are a cadet at the United States Military, Coast Guard, or Air Force Academy, or a midshipman at the United States Naval Academy;
(5) You are a member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps, the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps, or the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps, when ordered to annual training duty for 14 days or more including periods of authorized travel to and from that duty; or
(6) You are selected for active military or naval training under the Military Selective Service Act or are provisionally accepted for active duty in the military or naval service and you are ordered or directed to a place for final acceptance or entry upon active duty and are on the way to or from, or at, that place.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59913, Dec. 17, 1992]
§ 404.1020
Work for States and their political subdivisions and instrumentalities.
(a)
General.
If you work as an employee of a State, a political subdivision of a State, or any wholly owned instrumentality of one or more of these, your work is excluded from employment unless—
(1) The work is covered under an agreement under section 218 of the Act (see subpart M of this part); or
(2) The work is
covered transportation service
as defined in section 210(k) of the Act (see paragraph (c) of this section).
(3) You perform services after July 1, 1991, as an employee of a State (other than the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa), a political subdivision of a State, or any wholly owned instrumentality of one or more of the foregoing and you are not a member of a retirement system of such State, political subdivision, or instrumentality. Retirement system has the meaning given that term in section 218(b)(4) of the Act, except as provided in regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. This paragraph does not apply to services performed—
(i) As an employee employed to relieve you from unemployment;
(ii) In a hospital, home, or other institution where you are a patient or inmate thereof;
(iii) As an employee serving on a temporary basis in case of fire, storm, snow, earthquake, flood, or other similar emergency;
(iv) As an election official or election worker if the remuneration paid in a calendar year for such service prior to 1995 is less than $100, or less than $1000 for service performed in any calendar year after 1994 and before 2000, or, for service performed in any calendar year after 1999, less than the $1000 base amount, as adjusted pursuant to section 218(c)(8)(B) of the Social Security Act to reflect changes in wages in the economy. We will publish this adjustment of the $1000 base amount in the
Federal Register
on or before November 1 preceding the year for which the adjustment is made.
(v) As an employee in a position compensated solely on a fee basis which is treated, pursuant to section 211(c)(2)(E) of the Act, as a trade or business for purposes of inclusion of the fees in net earnings from self-employment; or
(4) The work is covered under § 404.1021 or § 404.1022.
(b)
Medicare qualified government employment.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, your work may be covered as Medicare qualified government employment (see § 404.1018b(c) of this subpart).
(c)
Covered transportation service
—(1)
Work for a public transportation system.
If you work for a public transportation system of a State or political subdivision of a State, your work may be covered transportation service if all or part of the system was acquired from private ownership. You must work as an employee of the State or political subdivision in connection with its operation of a public transportation system for your work to be covered transportation service. This paragraph sets out additional conditions that must be met for your work to be covered transportation service. If you work for a public transportation system but your work is not covered transportation service, your work may be covered for social security purposes under an agreement under section 218 of the Act (see subpart M of this part).
(2)
Transportation system acquired in whole or in part after 1936 and before 1951.
All work after 1950 for a public transportation system is covered transportation service if—
(i) Any part of the transportation system was acquired from private ownership after 1936 and before 1951; and
(ii) No general retirement system covering substantially all work in connection with the operation of the transportation system and guaranteed by the State constitution was in effect on December 31, 1950.
(3)
Transportation system operated on December 31, 1950, no part of which was acquired after 1936 and before 1951.
If no part of a transportation system operated by a State or political subdivision on December 31, 1950, was acquired from private ownership after 1936 and before 1951, work for that public transportation system is not covered transportation service unless performed under conditions described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(4)
Addition after 1950 to existing transportation system.
Work for a public transportation system part of which was acquired from private ownership after 1950 as an addition to an existing transportation system is covered transportation service beginning with the first day of the third calendar quarter
following the calendar quarter in which the addition was acquired if—
(i) The work is performed by an employee who—
(A) Worked in employment in connection with the operation of the addition before the addition was acquired by the State or political subdivision; and
(B) Became an employee of the State or political subdivision in connection with and at the time of its acquisition of the addition;
(ii) On that first day, work performed by that employee is—
(A) Not covered by a general retirement system; or
(B) Covered by a general retirement system which contains special provisions that apply only to employees described in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section;
(iii) The existing transportation system was operated by the State or political subdivision on December 31, 1950; and
(iv) Work for the existing transportation system was not covered transportation service because—
(A) No part of the system was acquired from private ownership after 1936 and before 1951; or
(B) The general retirement system described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section was in effect on December 31, 1950.
(5)
Transportation system acquired after 1950.
All work for a public transportation system is covered transportation service if—
(i) The transportation system was not operated by the State or political subdivision before 1951;
(ii) All or part of the transportation system was first acquired from private ownership after 1950; and
(iii) At the time the State or political subdivision first acquired any part of its transportation system from private ownership, it did not have a general retirement system covering substantially all work performed in connection with the operation of the transportation system.
(6)
Definitions.
(i) The term
general retirement system
means any pension, annuity, retirement, or similar fund or system established by a State or by a political subdivision of a State for employees of the State, the political subdivision, or both. The term does not include a fund or system which covers only work performed in positions connected with the operation of the public transportation system.
(ii) A transportation system (or part of a system) is considered to have been acquired from private ownership by a State or political subdivision if—
(A) Before the acquisition, work performed by employees in connection with the operation of the system (or an acquired part) constituted employment under the Act; and
(B) Some of these employees became employees of the State or political subdivision in connection with and at the time of the acquisition.
(iii) The term
political subdivision
includes an instrumentality of a State, of one or more political subdivisions of a State, or of a State and one or more of its political subdivisions.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59910, 59914, Dec. 17, 1992; 61 FR 38366, July 24, 1996; 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004]
§ 404.1021
Work for the District of Columbia.
If you work as an employee of the District of Columbia or a wholly owned instrumentality of the District of Columbia, your work is covered as employment unless—
(a) Your work is covered by a retirement system established by a law of the United States; or
(b) You are—
(1) A patient or inmate of a hospital or penal institution and your work is for that hospital or institution;
(2) A student employee (a student nurse, dietitian, or physical or occupational therapist, but not a medical or dental intern or resident in training) of a District of Columbia hospital, clinic, or medical or dental laboratory;
(3) An employee serving temporarily in case of fire, storm, snow, earthquake, flood, or other similar emergency; or
(4) A member of a board, committee, or council of the District of Columbia paid on a per diem, meeting, or other fee basis.
(c)
Medicare qualified government employment.
If your work is not covered
under Social Security, it may be covered as Medicare qualified government employment (see § 404.1018b(c) of this subpart).
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59914, Dec. 17, 1992]
§ 404.1022
American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(a)
Work in American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Work in American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for a private employer is covered as employment the same as in the 50 States. Work done by a resident of the Republic of the Philippines working in Guam on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant alien admitted to Guam under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act is excluded from coverage regardless of the employer.
(b)
Work for American Samoa or a political subdivision or wholly owned instrumentality of American Samoa.
Work as an officer or employee (including a member of the legislature) of the government of American Samoa, its political subdivisions, or any wholly owned instrumentality of any one or more of these, is covered as employment (unless the work is covered by a retirement system established by a law of the United States). The officer or employee is not considered as an employee of the United States, an agency of the United States, or an instrumentality of the United States, for purposes of title II of the Act. We consider any pay for this work to have been paid by the government of American Samoa, or the political subdivision or the wholly owned instrumentality of American Samoa.
(c)
Work for Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), or a political subdivision or wholly owned instrumentality of Guam or the CNMI.
Work as an officer or employee (including a member of the legislature) of the government of the CNMI, its political subdivisions, or any wholly owned instrumentality of any one or more of these, is covered as employment beginning October 1, 2012. Work as an officer or employee (including a member of the legislature) of the government of Guam, its political subdivisions, or any wholly owned instrumentality of any one or more of these, is excluded from coverage as employment. However, the exclusion does not apply to employees classified as temporary or intermittent unless the work is—
(1) Covered by a retirement system established by a law of Guam or the CNMI;
(2) Done by an elected official;
(3) Done by a member of the legislature; or
(4) Done in a hospital or penal institution by a patient or inmate of the hospital or penal institution.
(d)
Medicare qualified government employment.
If your work is not covered under Social Security, it may be covered as Medicare qualified government employment (see § 404.1018b(c) of this subpart).
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59914, Dec. 17, 1992; 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004; 79 FR 33684, June 12, 2014]
§ 404.1023
Ministers of churches and members of religious orders.
(a)
General.
If you are a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister of a church, the work you do in the exercise of your ministry is excluded from employment. However, it is treated as self-employment for social security purposes. If you are a member of a religious order who has not taken a vow of poverty, the same rule applies to the work you do in the exercise of your duties required by that order. If you are a member of a religious order who has taken a vow of poverty, the work you do in the exercise of duties required by the order (the work may be done for the order or for another employer) is covered as employment only if the order or autonomous subdivision of the order to which you belong has filed an effective election of coverage. The election is made under section 3121(r) of the Code. For the rules on self-employment coverage of ministers and members of religious orders who have not taken vows of poverty, see § 404.1071.
(b)
What is an ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister.
The terms
ordained, commissioned, or licensed
describe the procedures followed by recognized churches or church denominations to
vest ministerial status upon qualified individuals. If a church or church denomination has an ordination procedure, the commissioning or licensing of a person as a minister may not make him or her a commissioned or licensed minister for purposes of this subpart. Where there is an ordination procedure, the commissioning or licensing must be recognized as having the same effect as ordination and the person must be fully qualified to exercise all of the ecclesiastical duties of the church or church denomination.
(c)
When is work by a minister in the exercise of the ministry.
(1) A minister is working in the exercise of the ministry when he or she is—
(i) Ministering sacerdotal functions or conducting religious worship (other than as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section); or
(ii) Working in the control, conduct, and maintenance of a religious organization (including an integral agency of a religious organization) under the authority of a religious body constituting a church or church denomination.
(2) The following rules are used to decide whether a minister's work is in the exercise of the ministry:
(i) Whether the work is the conduct of religious worship or the ministration of sacerdotal functions depends on the tenets and practices of the religious body which is his or her church or church denomination.
(ii) Work in the control, conduct, and maintenance relates to directing, managing, or promoting the activities of the religious organization. Any religious organization is considered to be under the authority of a religious body constituting a church or church denomination if it is organized and dedicated to carrying out the tenets and principles of a faith according to either the requirements or sanctions governing the creation of institutions of the faith.
The term
religious organization
has the same meaning and application as is given to the term for income tax purposes under the Code.
(iii) If a minister is working in the conduct of religious worship or the ministration of sacerdotal functions, the work is in the exercise of the ministry whether or not it is performed for a religious organization. (See paragraph (d)(2) of this section for an exception to this rule.)

# Example:
M, a duly ordained minister, is engaged to work as chaplain at a privately owned university. M spends his entire time working as chaplain. This includes the conduct of religious worship, offering spiritual counsel to the university students, and teaching a class in religion. M is working in the exercise of the ministry.
(iv) If a minister is working for an organization which is operated as an integral agency of a religious organization under the authority of a religious body constituting a church or church denomination, all work by the minister in the conduct of religious worship, in the ministration of sacerdotal functions, or in the control, conduct, and maintenance of the organization is in the exercise of the ministry.

# Example:
M, a duly ordained minister, is engaged by the N Religious Board as director of one of its departments. M performs no other service. The N Religious Board is an integral agency of O, a religious organization operating under the authority of a religious body constituting a church denomination. M is working in the exercise of the ministry.
(v) If a minister, under an assignment or designation by a religious body constituting a church, works for an organization which is neither a religious organization nor operated as an integral agency of a religious organization, all service performed by him or her, even though the service may not involve the conduct of religious worship or the ministration of sacerdotal functions, is in the exercise of the ministry.

# Example:
M, a duly ordained minister, is assigned by X, the religious body constituting M's church, to perform advisory service to Y company in connection with the publication of a book dealing with the history of M's church denomination. Y is neither a religious organization nor operated as an integral agency of a religious organization. M performs no other service for X or Y. M is working in the exercise of the ministry.
(vi) If a minister is working for an organization which is neither a religious organization nor operated as an integral agency of a religious organization and the work is not performed under an assignment or designation by ecclesiastical superiors, then only the work
done by the minister in the conduct of religious worship or the ministration of sacerdotal functions is in the exercise of the ministry. (See paragraph (d)(2) of this section for an exception to this rule.)

# Example:
M, a duly ordained minister, is engaged by N University to teach history and mathematics. M does no other work for N although from time to time M performs marriages and conducts funerals for relatives and friends. N University is neither a religious organization nor operated as an integral agency of a religious organization. M is not working for N under an assignment by his ecclesiastical superiors. The work performed by M for N University is not in the exercise of the ministry. However, service performed by M in performing marriages and conducting funerals is in the exercise of the ministry.
(d)
When is work by a minister not in the exercise of the ministry.
(1) Work performed by a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister of a church which is not in the exercise of the ministry is not excluded from employment.
(2) Work performed by a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister of a church as an employee of the United States, or a State, territory, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or a foreign government, or a political subdivision of any of these, is not in the exercise of the ministry, even though the work may involve the ministration of sacerdotal functions or the conduct of religious worship. For example, we consider service performed as a chaplain in the Armed Forces of the United States to be work performed by a commissioned officer and not by a minister in the exercise of the ministry. Also, service performed by an employee of a State as a chaplain in a State prison is considered to be performed by a civil servant of the State and not by a minister in the exercise of the ministry.
(e)
Work in the exercise of duties required by a religious order.
Work performed by a member of a religious order in the exercise of duties required by the order includes all duties required of the member of the order. The nature or extent of the work is immaterial so long as it is service which the member is directed or required to perform by the member's ecclesiastical superiors.
§ 404.1024
Election of coverage by religious orders.
A religious order whose members are required to take a vow of poverty, or any autonomous subdivision of that religious order, may elect to have social security coverage extended to the work performed by its members in the exercise of duties required by that order or subdivision. The rules on the election of coverage by these religious orders are described in 26 CFR 31.3121(r). The rules on determining the wages of members of religious orders for which an election of coverage has been made are described in § 404.1046.
§ 404.1025
Work for religious, charitable, educational, or certain other organizations exempt from income tax.
(a)
After 1983.
Work done after 1983 by an employee in the employ of a religious, charitable, educational, or other organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Code which is exempt from income tax under section 501(a) of the Code is covered as employment unless the work is for a church or church-controlled organization that has elected to have services performed by its employees excluded (see § 404.1026). (See § 404.1059(b) for special wage rule.)
(b)
Before 1984.
Work described in paragraph (a) of this section which was done before 1984 is excluded from employment. However, the exclusion does not apply to work done during the period for which a form SS-15, Certificate Waiving Exemption From Taxes Under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, was filed (or was deemed to have been filed) with the Internal Revenue Service.
[50 FR 36573, Sept. 9, 1985]
§ 404.1026
Work for a church or qualified church-controlled organization.
(a)
General.
If you work for a church or qualified church-controlled organization, as described in this section, your employer may elect to have your services excluded from employment. You would then be considered to be self-employed and special conditions would apply to you. See § 404.1068(f) for those special conditions. The employer's election of the exclusion must be
made with the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with Internal Revenue Service procedures and must state that the church or church-controlled organization is opposed for religious reasons to the payment of Social Security employment taxes. The exclusion applies to current and future employees. If you work in an unrelated trade or business (within the meaning of section 513(a) of the Code) of the church or church-controlled organization, the exclusion does not apply to your services.
(b)
What is a church.
For purposes of this section the term
church
means a church, a convention or association of churches, or an elementary or secondary school which is controlled, operated, or principally supported by a church or by a convention or association of churches.
(c)
What is a qualified church-controlled organization.
For purposes of this section the term
qualified church-controlled organization
means any church-controlled organization exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Code but does
not
include an organization which:
(1) Offers goods, services, or facilities for sale to the general public, other than on an incidental basis, or for other than a nominal charge which is substantially less than the cost of providing such goods, services, or facilities; and
(2) Normally receives more than 25 percent of its support from either governmental sources or receipts from admissions, sales of merchandise, performance of services or furnishing of facilities other than in an unrelated trade or business, or both.
[50 FR 36573, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 7309, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1027
Railroad work.
We exclude from employment any work you do as an employee or employee representative as described in the Railroad Retirement Tax Act. However, railroad compensation can be counted for social security purposes under the conditions described in subpart O of this part.
§ 404.1028
Student working for a school, college, or university.
(a) For purposes of this section, a
school, college, or university
has its usual accepted meaning. It does not, however, include any school, college, or university that is an instrumentality or integral part of a State or a political subdivision of a State for which work can only be covered by an agreement under section 218 of the Act. (See subpart M of this part.)
(b) If you are a student, any work you do as an employee of a school, college or university is excluded from employment, if you are enrolled in and regularly attending classes at that school, college, or university. The exclusion also applies to work you do for a private nonprofit auxiliary organization of the school, college, or university if it is organized and operated exclusively for the benefit of, to perform functions of, or to carry out the purposes of the school, college, or university. The organization must be operated, supervised, or controlled by, or in connection with, the school, college, or university.
(c) Whether you are a student for purposes of this section depends on your relationship with your employer. If your main purpose is pursuing a course of study rather than earning a livelihood, we consider you to be a student and your work is not considered employment.
§ 404.1029
Student nurses.
If you are a student nurse, your work for a hospital or nurses training school is excluded from employment if you are enrolled and regularly attending classes in a nurses training school which is chartered or approved under State law.
§ 404.1030
Delivery and distribution or sale of newspapers, shopping news, and magazines.
(a)
If you are under age 18.
Work you do before you reach age 18 delivering or distributing newspapers or shopping news is excluded from employment. This does not include delivery or distribution to some point for further delivery or distribution by someone else. If you make house-to-house delivery or sale of newspapers or shopping news
(including handbills and similar kinds of advertising material), your work is not covered while you are under age 18. Related work such as assembling newspapers is also excluded.
(b)
If you are any age.
No matter how old you are, work you do in connection with and at the time of the sale of newspapers or magazines to consumers is excluded from employment if there is an arrangement under which—
(1) You are to sell the newspapers or magazines at a fixed price; and
(2) Your pay is the difference between the fixed selling price and the amount you are charged for the newspapers or magazines (whether or not you are guaranteed a minimum amount of compensation or receive credit for unsold newspapers or magazines).
(c)
If you are age 18 or older.
If you have attained age 18, you are self-employed if you work under the arrangement described in paragraph (b) of this section. See § 404.1068(b).
§ 404.1031
Fishing.
(a) If you work on a boat engaged in catching fish or other forms of aquatic animal life, your work is not employment if you have an arrangement with the owner or operator of the boat which provides for all of the following:
(1) You do not receive any cash pay (other than as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section).
(2) You receive a share of the catch or a share of the proceeds from the sale of the catch.
(3) The amount of your share depends on the size of the catch.
(4) The operating crew of the boat (or each boat from which you receive a share if the fishing operation involves more than one boat) is normally made up of fewer than 10 individuals.
(b) Work excluded from employment under this section is considered to be self-employment (§ 404.1068(e)).
§ 404.1032
Work for a foreign government.
If you work as an employee of a foreign government in any capacity, your work is excluded from employment. If you are a citizen of the United States and work in the United States as an employee of a foreign government, you are considered to be self-employed (§ 404.1068(d)).
§ 404.1033
Work for a wholly owned instrumentality of a foreign government.
(a) If you work as an employee of an instrumentality of a foreign government, your work is excluded from employment if—
(1) The instrumentality is wholly owned by the foreign government;
(2) Your work is similar to work performed in foreign countries by employees of the United States Government or its instrumentalities; and
(3) The Secretary of State certifies to the Secretary of the Treasury that the foreign government grants an equivalent exemption for services performed in the foreign country by employees of the United States Government or its instrumentalities.
(b) Your work will not be excluded under this section if any of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are not met.
(c) If you are a citizen of the United States and work in the United States as an employee of an instrumentality of a foreign government and the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are met, you are considered to be self-employed (§ 404.1068(d)).
§ 404.1034
Work for an international organization.
(a) If you work as an employee of an international organization entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act (59 Stat. 669), your work is excluded from employment except as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The organization must meet the following conditions:
(1) It must be a public international organization in which the United States participates under a treaty or authority of an act of Congress authorizing, or making an appropriation for, participation.
(2) It must be designated by executive order to be entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities provided in the International Organizations Immunities Act.
(3) The designation must be in effect, and all conditions and limitations in the designation must be met.
(b) Your work will not be excluded under this section if any of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are not met.
(c) Your work performed after December 31, 1994 will not be excluded under this section if you perform service in the employ of an international organization pursuant to a transfer from a Federal agency under section 3582 of title 5 of the United States Code and
(1) Immediately before such transfer you performed service with a Federal agency which was covered as employment; and
(2) You would be entitled, upon separation from the international organization and proper application, to reemployment with the Federal agency under section 3582.
(d) If you are a citizen of the United States and work in the United States as an employee of an international organization that meets the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section and you are not subject to coverage based on paragraph (c) of this section, you are considered to be self-employed (§ 404.1068(d)).
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 38366, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1035
Work for a communist organization.
If you work as an employee of an organization which is registered, or which is required by a final order of the Subversive Activities Control Board to register under the Internal Security Act of 1950 as a communist action, communist-front, or communist-infiltrated organization, your work is excluded from employment. The exclusion is effective with the calendar year in which the organization is registered or the final order is in effect.
§ 404.1036
Certain nonresident aliens.
(a)
Foreign students.
(1) Foreign students (nonimmigrant aliens) may be temporarily in the United States under subparagraph (F) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to attend a school or other recognized place of study approved by the Attorney General. On-campus work or work under permission granted by the Immigration and Naturalization Service which is done by these students is excluded from employment. Other work done by these foreign students is not excluded from employment under this section.
(2) Foreign students (nonimmigrant aliens) may be temporarily in the United States under subparagraph (M) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to pursue a vocational or nonacademic technical education approved by the Attorney General. Work done by these students to carry out the purpose for which they were admitted is excluded from employment. Other work done by these foreign students is not excluded from employment under this section.
(b)
Exchange visitors.
(1) Exchange visitors (nonimmigrant aliens) may be temporarily in the United States under subparagraph (J) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to participate in exchange visitor programs designated by the Director of the United States Information Agency. Work done by these exchange visitors to carry out the purpose for which they were admitted and for which permission has been granted by the sponsor, is excluded from employment. Other work done by these exchange visitors is not excluded from employment under this section.
(2) Exchange visitors (nonimmigrant aliens) may be temporarily in the United States under subparagraph (Q) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to participate in an international cultural exchange program approved by the Attorney General. Effective October 1, 1994, work done by these exchange visitors to carry out the purpose for which they were admitted is excluded from employment. Other work done by these exchange visitors is not excluded from employment under this section.
(c)
Spouse and children.
Work done by a foreign student's or exchange visitor's alien spouse or minor child who is also temporarily in the United States under subparagraph (F), (J), (M), or (Q) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act is not excluded from employment under this section
unless that spouse or child and the work that is done meets the conditions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
[61 FR 38366, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1037
Work on or in connection with a non-American vessel or aircraft.
If you work as an employee within the United States on or in connection with (as explained in § 404.1004(b)(8)) a vessel or aircraft that is not an American vessel (as defined in § 404.1004(b)(3)) or American aircraft (as defined in § 404.1004(b)(2)), your work is excluded from employment if—
(a) You are not a citizen of the United States or your employer is not an American employer (as defined in § 404.1004(b)(1)); and
(b) You are employed on and in connection with (as explained in § 404.1004(b)(7)) the vessel or aircraft when outside the United States.
§ 404.1038
Domestic employees under age 18.
Domestic services you perform in a private home of your employer are excluded from employment, regardless of the amount earned, in any year in which you are under age 18 if domestic service is not your principal occupation. The exclusion applies to the entire year if you are under age 18 in any part of the year. See § 404.1057.
[61 FR 38366, July 24, 1996]

# Exemption From Social Security by Reason of Religious Belief
§ 404.1039
Employers (including partnerships) and employees who are both members of certain religious groups opposed to insurance.
(a) You and your employer (or, if the employer is a partnership, each of its partners) may file applications with the Internal Revenue Service for exemption from your respective shares of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes on your wages paid by that employer if you and your employer (or, if the employer is a partnership, each of its partners)—
(1) Are members of a recognized religious sect or division of the sect; and
(2) Adhere to the tenets or teachings of the sect or division of the sect and for that reason are conscientiously opposed to receiving benefits from any private or public insurance that—
(i) Makes payment in the event of death, disability, old-age, or retirement; or
(ii) Makes payment for the cost of, or provides services for, medical care including the benefits of any insurance system established by the Act.
(b) Both your application and your employer's application (or, if your employer is a partnership, each partner's application) must be filed with and approved by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to section 3127 of the Internal Revenue Code. An application must contain or be accompanied by the applicant's waiver of all benefits and payments under title II and part A of title XVIII of the Act. See § 404.305 for the effect of the filing of the waiver and the granting of the exemption.
(c) Regardless of whether the applicant meets all these conditions, the application will not be approved unless we find that—
(1) The sect or division of the sect has established tenets or teachings which cause the applicant to be conscientiously opposed to the types of insurance benefits described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(2) For a substantial period of time it has been the practice for members of the sect or division of the sect to make provision for their dependent members that is reasonable in view of their general level of living; and
(3) The sect or division of the sect has been in existence continuously since December 31, 1950.
(d) An application for exemption will be approved by the Internal Revenue Service only if no benefit or payment under title II or part A of title XVIII of the Act became payable (or, but for section 203 or section 222(b) of the Act, would have become payable) to the applicant at or before the time of the filing of the application for exemption.
(e) The tax exemption ceases to be effective with respect to wages paid beginning with the calendar quarter in which either the employer (or if the employer is a partnership, any of its partners) or the employee involved does not meet the requirements of
paragraph (a) of this section or the religious sect or division of the sect is found by us to no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. If the tax exemption ceases to be effective, the waiver of the right to receive Social Security and Medicare Part A benefits will also no longer be effective. Benefits may be payable based upon the wages of the individual, whose exempt status was terminated, for and after the calendar year following the calendar year in which the event occurred upon which the cessation of the exemption is based. Benefits may be payable based upon the self-employment income of the individual whose exempt status was terminated for and after the taxable year in which the event occurred upon which the cessation of the exemption is based.
[58 FR 64889, Dec. 10, 1993]

# Wages
§ 404.1041
Wages.
(a) The term
wages
means remuneration paid to you as an employee for employment unless specifically excluded. Wages are counted in determining your entitlement to retirement, survivors', and disability insurance benefits.
(b) If you are paid wages, it is not important what they are called. Salaries, fees, bonuses and commissions on sales or on insurance premiums are wages if they are remuneration paid for employment.
(c) The way in which you are paid is unimportant. Wages may be paid on the basis of piecework or a percentage of the profits. Wages may be paid on an hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis. (See § 404.1056 for special rules for agricultural labor.)
(d) Your wages can be in any form. You can be paid in cash or something other than cash, for example, in goods or clothing. (See paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section for kinds of employment where cash payments alone are considered wages and § 404.1043(b) concerning the value of meals and lodging as wages.) If your employer pays you cash for your meals and lodging on a regular basis as part of your employment, these payments may be considered wages. Payments other than cash may be counted as wages on the basis of the fair value of the items when paid.
(e) In certain kinds of employment, cash payments alone count as wages. These types of employment are agricultural labor, domestic services, and services not in the course of the employer's trade or business.
(f) To count as wages, payments for services performed by home workers who are employees as described in § 404.1008(d) must be in cash and must amount to $100 or more in a calendar year. Once this cash pay test is met, all remuneration paid, whether in cash or kind, is also wages.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 7309, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1042
Wages when paid and received.
(a)
In general.
Wages are received by an employee at the time they are paid by the employer to the employee. Wages are paid by an employer at the time that they are actually or constructively paid unless they are deemed to be paid later (as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section).
(b)
Constructive payment.
Wages are constructively paid when they are credited to the account of, or set aside for, an employee so that they may be drawn upon by the employee at any time although not then actually received. To be a payment—
(1) The wages must be credited to or set aside for the employee and must be made available without restriction so that they may be drawn upon at any time; or
(2) The employer must intend to pay or to set aside or credit, and have the ability to pay wages when due to the employee, and failure of the employer to credit or set aside the wages is due to clerical error or mistake in the mechanics of payment, and because of the clerical error or mistake the wages are not actually available at that time.
(c)
Deemed payment.
(1) The first $100 of cash paid, either actually or constructively, by an employer to an employee in a calendar year is considered paid at the time that the amount of the cash payment totals $100 for the year in the case of pay for—
(i) Work not in the course of the employer's trade or business (non-business work);
(ii) Work by certain home workers; and
(iii) Work for an organization exempt from income tax under section 501 of the Code.
(2) We also apply this rule to domestic work in a private home of the employer, except see § 404.1057(a)(1) for the applicable dollar amount.
(3) Cash of less than $150 that an employer pays to an employee in a calendar year, either actually or constructively, for agricultural labor is considered paid at the earliest of—
(i) The time in the calendar year that the employee's pay totals $150; or
(ii) The 20th day of the calendar year on which the employee works for cash pay computed on a time basis.
(4) If an employer pays cash to an employee for two or more of the kinds of work referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, we apply the provisions of this paragraph to the pay for each kind of work.
(d)
Employee tax deductions.
We consider employee tax deductions under section 3101 of the Code to be part of the employee's wages and consider them to be paid at the time of the deduction. We consider other deductions from wages to be wages paid at the time of the deduction. It is immaterial that the deductions are required or permitted by an act of Congress or the law of any State.
(e)
Tips.
(1) Tips received by an employee in the course of employment, that are considered to be
wages,
are deemed to be paid at the time the employee reports the tips to the employer in a written statement as provided under section 6053(a) of the Code. Tips that are not reported are deemed to be paid to the employee at the time they are received by the employee.
(2) We consider tips to be received in the course of employment whether they are received by the employee from the employer or from another person. Only tips employees receive and keep for themselves are considered to be the employees' pay. If employees split tips, each employee who receives part of the tip receives tips in the course of employment.
(f)
Payments under nonqualified deferred compensation plans.
Amounts that an employee is entitled to receive under nonqualified deferred compensation plans (plans that do not qualify for special tax treatment under the Code) are creditable as wages for Social Security purposes at the later of the following times:
(1) When the services are performed; or
(2) When there is no longer a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined in section 83 of the Code) of the employee's rights to the deferred compensation.
Any amounts taken into account as wages by this paragraph (and the income attributable thereto) will not thereafter be treated as wages for Social Security purposes.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 7309, Mar. 1, 1990; 61 FR 38366, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1043
Facilities or privileges—meals and lodging.
(a)
Excluding the value of employer provided facilities or privileges from employee gross income prior to January 1, 1985.
(1) Generally, the facilities or privileges that an employer furnished an employee prior to January 1, 1985 are not wages if the facilities or privileges—
(i) Were of relatively small value; and
(ii) Were offered or furnished by the employer merely as a means of promoting the health, good will, contentment, or efficiency of the employees.
(2) The term
facilities or privileges
for the period prior to January 1, 1985 is intended to include such items as entertainment, medical services, and so-called
courtesy
discounts on purchases.
(b)
Meals and lodging.
The value of the meals and lodging furnished to an employee by an employer for reasons of the employer's convenience is not wages if—
(1) The meals are provided at the employer's place of business; and
(2) The employee, in the case of lodging, is required to accept lodging on the employer's business premises as a condition of employment.
[52 FR 29662, Aug. 11, 1987]
§ 404.1044
Vacation pay.
We consider your salary while on vacation, or a
vacation allowance
paid by your employer, to be wages.
§ 404.1045
Employee expenses.
Amounts that your employer pays you specifically—either as advances or reimbursements—for traveling or for other ordinary and necessary expenses incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, in your employer's business are not wages. The employer must identify these travel and other expenses either by making a separate payment or by specifically stating the separate amounts if both wages and expense allowances are combined in a single payment.
§ 404.1046
Pay for work by certain members of religious orders.
(a) If you are a member of a religious order who has taken a vow of poverty (§ 404.1023), and the order has elected Social Security coverage under section 3121(r) of the Code, your wages are figured in a special way. Your wages, for Social Security purposes, are the fair market value of any board, lodging, clothing, and other items of value furnished to you by the order, or furnished to the order on your behalf by another organization or person under an agreement with the order. See paragraph (b) of this section if you perform services for a third party. The order must report at least $100 a month for each active member. If the fair market value of items furnished to all members of a religious order does not vary significantly, the order may consider all members to have a uniform wage.
(b) If you perform services for a third party, the following rules apply:
(1) If you perform services for another agency of the supervising church or an associated institution, any amounts paid based on such services, whether paid directly to you or to the order, do not count on wages. Only wages figured under (a) above, are counted.
(2) If you perform services in a secular setting as an employee of a third party not affiliated or associated with the supervising church or an associated institution, any amounts paid based on such services, whether paid directly to you or to the order, count as wages paid to you by the third party. These wages are in addition to any wages counted under paragraph (a) of this section.
[55 FR 7309, Mar. 1, 1990; 55 FR 17530, Apr. 25, 1990]
§ 404.1047
Annual wage limitation.
Payments made by an employer to you as an employee in a calendar year that are more than the annual wage limitation are not wages. The annual wage limitation is:
Calendar year
Wage limitation
1951-54
$3,600
1955-58
4,200
1959-65
4,800
1966-67
6,600
1968-71
7,800
1972
9,000
1973
10,800
1974
13,200
1975
14,100
1976
15,300
1977
16,500
1978
17,700
1979
22,900
1980
25,900
1981
29,700
1982
32,400
1983
35,700
1984
37,800
1985
39,600
1986
42,000
1987
43,800
1988
45,000
1989
48,000
1990
51,300
1991
53,400
1992
55,500
[52 FR 8249, Mar. 17, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 44098, Sept. 24, 1992]
§ 404.1048
Contribution and benefit base after 1992.
(a)
General.
The contribution and benefit base after 1992 is figured under the formula described in paragraph (b) of this section in any calendar year in which there is an automatic cost-of-living increase in old-age, survivors, and disability insurance benefits. For purposes of this section, the calendar year in which the contribution and benefit base is figured is called the determination year. The base figured in the determination year applies to wages paid after (and taxable years beginning after) the determination year.
(b)
Formula for figuring the contribution and benefit base.
For wages paid
after (and taxable years beginning after) the determination year, the contribution and benefit base is the larger of—
(1) The contribution and benefit base in effect for the determination year; or
(2) The amount determined by—
(i) Multiplying the contribution and benefit base in effect for the determination year by the ratio of—
(A) The average of the total wages (as described in paragraph (c) of this section) reported to the Secretary of the Treasury for the calendar year before the determination year to
(B) The average of the total wages reported to the Secretary of the Treasury for the calendar year before the most recent calendar year in which an increase in the contribution and benefit base was enacted or a determination under this section resulting in an increase of the base was made; and
(ii) Rounding the result of the multiplication, if not a multiple of $300, to—
(A) The nearest multiple of $300; or
(B) The next higher multiple of $300 if the result is a multiple of $150.
(c)
Average of the total wages.
The average of the total wages means the amount equal to all remuneration reported as wages on Form W-2 to the Internal Revenue Service for all employees for income tax purposes plus contributions to certain deferred compensation plans described in section 209(k) of the Social Security Act (also reported on Form W-2), divided by the number of wage earners. If both distributions from and contributions to any such deferred compensation plan are reported on Form W-2, we will include only the contributions in the calculation of the average of the total wages. The reported remuneration and deferred compensation contributions include earnings from work not covered under social security and earnings from work covered under social security that are more than the annual wage limitation described in § 404.1047.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 7309, Mar. 1, 1990; 57 FR 1382, Jan. 14, 1992]
§ 404.1049
Payments under an employer plan or system.
(a) Payments to, or on behalf of, you or any of your dependents under your employer's plan or system are excluded from wages if made because of your or your dependents'—
(1) Medical or hospitalization expenses connected with sickness or accident disability; or
(2) Death, except that the exclusion does not apply to payments for group-term life insurance to the extent that the payments are includible in the gross income of the employee under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, effective with respect to group-term life insurance coverage in effect after 1987 for employees whose employment, for the employer (or successor of that employer) providing the insurance coverage, does not end prior to 1989. Such payments are wages, however, if they are for coverage for an employee who was separated from employment prior to January 1, 1989, if the payments are for any period for which the employee is reemployed by the employer (or successor of that employer) after the date of separation.
(b) Payments to you or your dependents under your employer's plan at or after the termination of your employment relationship because of your death or retirement for disability are excluded from wages.
(c) Payments made after 1983 to you or your dependents under your employer's plan at or after the termination of your employment relationship because of retirement after reaching an age specified in the plan or in a pension plan of the employer are not excluded from wages unless—
(1) The payments are to or from a trust or annuity plan of your employer as described in § 404.1052; or
(2) An agreement to retire was in effect on March 24, 1983, between you and your employer and the payments made after 1983 under a nonqualified deferred compensation plan (see § 404.1042(f)) are based on services performed for your employer before 1984.
(d) The plan or system established by the employer must provide for the employees generally or for a class or classes of employees. The plan or system may also provide for these employees' dependents. Payments under a plan or system established only for your dependents are not excluded from wages. The plan or system established
by the employer can provide for payments on account of one or more of the items in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(e) For purposes of this section, your dependents include your husband or wife, children, and any other members of your immediate family.
(f) It does not make any difference that the benefit payments are considered in arriving at the amount of your pay or are required by the employment agreement.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 1832, Jan. 14, 1985; 55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990; 55 FR 17530, Apr. 25, 1990]
§ 404.1050
Retirement payments.
Payments made after 1983 to you (including any amount paid by an employer for insurance or annuities) on account of your retirement for age are not excluded from wages unless—
(a) The payments are to or from a trust or annuity plan of your employer as described in § 404.1052; or
(b) The payments satisfy the requirements described in § 404.1049(c)(2).
[55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1051
Payments on account of sickness or accident disability, or related medical or hospitalization expenses.
(a) We do not include as wages any payment that an employer makes to you, or on your behalf, on account of your sickness or accident disability, or related medical or hospitalization expenses, if the payment is made more than 6 consecutive calendar months following the last calendar month in which you worked for that employer. Payments made during the 6 consecutive months are included as wages.
(b) The exclusion in paragraph (a) of this section also applies to any such payment made by a third party (such as an insurance company). However, if you contributed to your employer's sick pay plan, that portion of the third party payments attributable to your contribution is not wages.
(c) Payments of medical or hospitalization expenses connected with sickness or accident disability are excluded from wages beginning with the first payment only if made under a plan or system of your employer as explained in § 404.1049(a)(1).
(d) Payments under a worker's compensation law are not wages.
[55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1052
Payments from or to certain tax-exempt trusts or payments under or into certain annuity plans.
(a) We do not include as wages any payment made—
(1) Into a tax-exempt trust or annuity plan by your employer on behalf of you or your beneficiary; or
(2) From a tax-exempt trust or under an annuity plan to, or on behalf of, you or your beneficiary.
(b) The trust must be exempt from tax under sections 401 and 501(a) of the Code, and the annuity plan must be a plan described in section 403(a) of the Code when payment is made.
(c) The exclusion does not apply to payments to an employee of the trust for work done as an employee of the trust.
[55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1053
“Qualified benefits” under a cafeteria plan.
We do not include as wages any
qualified benefits
under a cafeteria plan as described in section 125 of the Code if such payment would not be treated as wages without regard to such plan and it is reasonable to believe that (if section 125 applied for purposes of this section) section 125 would not treat any wages as constructively received. This includes any
qualified benefit
made to you, or on your behalf, pursuant to a salary reduction agreement between you and your employer. The Internal Revenue Service decides whether any plan is a cafeteria plan under section 125 of the Code and whether any benefit under the plan is a
qualified benefit.
[55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1054
Payments by an employer of employee's tax or employee's contribution under State law.
(a) We exclude as wages any payment by an employer (described in paragraph (b) of this section) that is not deducted from the employee's salary (or for which reimbursement is not made by the employee) of either—
(1) The tax imposed by section 3101 of the Code (employee's share of
Social Security tax
); or
(2) Any payment required from an employee under a State unemployment compensation law.
(b) The payments described in paragraph (a) of this section are not included as wages only if they are made by an employer on behalf of an employee employed in—
(1) Domestic service in the private home of the employer; or
(2) Agricultural labor.
[55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1055
Payments for agricultural labor.
(a)
When cash payments are not wages.
We do not include as wages your cash payments in a calendar year after 1987 from an employer for agricultural labor (see § 404.1056) if your employer's total expenditures for agricultural labor are less than $2500 in that year and your employer paid you less than $150 cash remuneration in that year for your agricultural labor.
(b)
Exclusions for noncash payments and payments for seasonal agricultural labor.
(1) Noncash payments for agricultural labor are not wages.
(2) Your cash payments in a calendar year from an employer for agricultural labor are not wages, irrespective of your employer's total annual expenditures for agricultural labor, if you are a hand harvest laborer (
i.e.
, seasonal agricultural labor), and—
(i) Your employer paid you less than $150 in that year;
(ii) You are paid on a piece rate basis in an operation which has been, and is customarily and generally recognized in the region of employment as paying on a piece rate basis;
(iii) You commute daily from your permanent residence to the farm on which you are so employed; and,
(iv) You were employed in agriculture less than 13 weeks during the previous calendar year.

# Example:
In 1988, A (not a hand harvest laborer) performs agricultural labor for X for cash pay of $144 in the year. X's total agricultural labor expenditures for 1988 are $2,450. Neither the $150 cash-pay test nor the $2,500 expenditures test is met. Therefore, X's payments to A are not wages.
(c)
When cash-pay is creditable as wages.
(1) If you receive cash pay from an employer for services which are agricultural labor and for services which are not agricultural labor, we count only the amounts paid for agricultural labor in determining whether cash payments equal or exceed $150. If the amounts paid are less than $150, we count only those amounts paid for agricultural labor in determining if the $2500 expenditure test is met.

# Example:
Employer X operates a store and also operates a farm. Employee A, who regularly works in the store, works on X's farm when additional help is required for the farm activities. In calendar year 1988, X pays A $140 cash for agricultural labor performed in that year, and $2,260 for work in connection with the operation of the store. Additionally, X's total expenditures for agricultural labor in 1988 were $2,010. Since the cash payments by X to A in the calendar year 1988 for agricultural labor are less than $150, and total agricultural labor expenditures were under $2,500, the $140 paid by X to A for agricultural labor is not wages. The $2,260 paid for work in the store is wages.
(2) The amount of cash pay for agricultural labor that is creditable to an individual is based on cash paid in a calendar year rather than on amounts earned during a calendar year.
(3) If you receive cash pay for agricultural labor in any one calendar year from more than one employer, we apply the $150 cash-pay test and $2,500 total expenditures test to each employer.
(d)
Application of the $150 cash-pay and 20-day tests prior to 1988.
(1) For the time period prior to 1988, we apply either the $150 a year cash-pay test or the 20-day test. Cash payments are wages if you receive $150 or more from an employer for agricultural labor or under the 20-day test if you perform agricultural labor for which cash pay is computed on a time basis on 20 or more days during a calendar year. For purposes of the 20-day test, the amount of the cash pay is immaterial, and it is immaterial whether you also receive payments other than cash or payments that are not computed on a time basis. If cash paid to you for agricultural labor is computed on a time basis, the payments are not wages unless they
are paid in a calendar year in which either the 20-day test or the $150 cash-pay test is met.
(2) [Reserved]
[57 FR 59914, Dec. 17, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 38367, July 24, 1996; 70 FR 41955, July 21, 2005]
§ 404.1056
Explanation of agricultural labor.
(a)
What is agricultural labor.
(1) If you work on a farm as an employee of any person, you are doing agricultural labor if your work has to do with—
(i) Cultivating the soil;
(ii) Raising, shearing, feeding, caring for, training or managing livestock, bees, poultry, fur-bearing animals or wildlife; or
(iii) Raising or harvesting any other agricultural or horticultural commodity.
(2) If you work on a farm as an employee of any person in connection with the production or harvesting of maple sap, the raising or harvesting of mushrooms, or the hatching of poultry, you are doing agricultural labor. If you work in the processing of maple sap into maple syrup or maple sugar you are not doing agricultural labor even though you work on a farm. Work in a mushroom cave or poultry hatchery is agricultural labor only if the cave or hatchery is operated as part of a farm.
(3) If you work as an employee of the owner, tenant, or other operator of a farm, you are doing agricultural labor if most of your work is done on a farm and is involved with—
(i) The operation, management, conservation, improvement, or maintenance of the farm or its tools or equipment (this may include work by carpenters, painters, mechanics, farm supervisors, irrigation engineers, bookkeepers, and other skilled or semiskilled workers); or
(ii) Salvaging timber or clearing the land of brush and other debris left by a hurricane.
(4) You are doing agricultural labor no matter for whom or where you work, if your work involves—
(i) Cotton ginning;
(ii) Operating or maintaining ditches, canals, reservoirs, or waterways, if they are used only for supplying and storing water for farm purposes and are not owned or operated for profit; or
(iii) Producing or harvesting crude gum (oleoresin) from living trees or processing the crude gum into gum spirits of turpentine and gum resin (if the processing is done by the original producer).
(5) Your work as an employee in the handling, planting, drying, packing, packaging, processing, freezing, grading, storing, or delivering to storage, to a market or to a carrier for transportation to market, of any agricultural or horticultural commodity is agricultural labor if—
(i) You work for a farm operator or a group of farm operators (other than a cooperative organization);
(ii) Your work involves the commodity in its raw or unmanufactured state; and
(iii) The operator produced most of the commodity you work with during the period for which you are paid, or if you work for a group of operators, all of the commodity you work with during the pay period is produced by that group.
(6) If you do nonbusiness work, it is agricultural labor if you do the work on a farm operated for a profit. A farm is not operated for profit if the employer primarily uses it as a residence or for personal or family recreation or pleasure. (See § 404.1058(a) for an explanation of nonbusiness work.)
(7) The term
farm operator
means an owner, tenant, or other person, in possession of and operating a farm.
(8) Work is not
agricultural labor
if it is done in the employ of a cooperative organization, which includes corporations, joint-stock companies, and associations treated as corporations under the Code. Any unincorporated group of operators is considered to be a cooperative organization if more than 20 operators are in the group at any time during the calendar year in which the work is done.
(9) Processing work which changes the commodity from its raw or natural state is not agricultural labor. An example of this is the extraction of juices from fruits or vegetables. However, work in the cutting and drying of fruits or vegetables does not change
the commodity from its raw or natural state and can be agricultural labor.
(10) The term
commodity
means a single agricultural or horticultural product. For example, all apples are a commodity, while apples and oranges are two commodities.
(11) Work connected with the commercial canning or freezing of a commodity is not agricultural labor nor is work done after the delivery of the commodity to a terminal market for distribution for consumption.
(b)
What is a farm.
For purposes of social security coverage,
farm
includes a stock, dairy, poultry, fruit, fur-bearing animal, or truck farm, plantation, ranch, nursery, range or orchard. A farm also includes a greenhouse or other similar structure used mostly for raising agricultural or horticultural products. A greenhouse or other similar structure used mostly for other purposes such as display, storage, making wreaths and bouquets is not a farm.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980. Redesignated at 55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 38367, July 24, 1996; 70 FR 41955, July 21, 2005]
§ 404.1057
Domestic service in the employer's home.
(a)
Payments for domestic service
—(1)
The applicable dollar threshold.
We do not include as wages cash payments that an employer makes to you in any calendar year for domestic service in the employer's private home if the cash pay in that calendar year is less than the applicable dollar threshold. The threshold per employer is $1000 in calendar year 1995. In calendar years after 1995, this amount will be subject to adjustment in $100 increments based on the formula in section 215(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act to reflect changes in wages in the economy. Non-cash payments for domestic service are not counted as wages.
(2)
How evaluation is made.
We apply the applicable dollar threshold described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section based on when the payments are made to you rather than when the pay is earned. To count toward the applicable dollar threshold, payment must be made to you in cash (including checks or other forms of money). We apply the applicable dollar threshold only to services performed as a domestic employee. If an employer pays you for performing other work, the cash pay for the nondomestic work does not count toward the applicable dollar threshold domestic service pay required for the remuneration to count as wages.
(3)
More than one domestic employer.
The applicable dollar threshold as explained in paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies to each employer when you perform domestic services for more than one employer in a calendar year. The wages paid by more than one employer for domestic services may not be combined to decide whether you have been paid the applicable dollar threshold or more in a calendar year. The standard applies to each employee when an employer has two or more domestic employees during a calendar year.
(4)
Rounding dollar amounts for reporting.
For social security purposes, an employer has an option in the way he or she reports cash wages paid for domestic service in his or her private home. The employer may report the actual wages paid or may round the wages to the nearest dollar. For purposes of rounding to the nearest dollar the cents are disregarded unless it amounts to one-half dollar or more, in which case it will be raised to $1. If an employer uses this method to report a cash payment to you for domestic services in his or her private home in a calendar year, he or she must use the same method to report payments to other employees in that year for similar services.
(b)
What is domestic service.
Domestic service is work of a household nature done by you in or about a private home of the employer. A private home is a fixed place of residence of a person or family. A separate dwelling unit maintained by a person in an apartment house, hotel, or other similar establishment may be a private home. If a house is used primarily for supplying board or lodging to the public as a business enterprise, it is not a private home. In general, services of a household nature in or about a private home include services performed by cooks, waiters, butlers, housekeepers, governesses, maids, valets, baby sitters, janitors, laundresses, furnacemen, caretakers,
handymen, gardeners, footmen, grooms, and chauffeurs of automobiles for family use. Pay for these services does not come under this provision unless the services are performed in or about a private home of the employer. Pay for services not of a household nature, such as services performed as a private secretary, tutor, or librarian, even though performed in the employer's home, does not come under this provision.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980; 45 FR 25060, Apr. 14, 1980. Redesignated at 55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 38367, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1058
Special situations.
(a)
Payments for service not in course of employer's trade or business (nonbusiness work) and payments to certain home workers
—(1)
The $100 standard.
We do not include as wages cash pay of less than $100 paid to you in a calendar year by an employer for services not in the course of the employer's trade or business (nonbusiness work) and for services as a home worker as described in § 404.1008(d).
(2)
How evaluation is made.
(i) We apply the $100 standard for a calendar year based on when the payments are made to you rather than when the pay is earned. To count toward the $100 amount, payment must be in cash (including checks or other forms of money). The $100 standard applies to each employer when you perform services not in the course of the employer's trade or business or as a homeworker for two or more employers.
(ii) If the employer has two or more employees, the standard applies to each employee. In applying the $100 standard, we disregard cash payments for any other type of services you perform for the employer.
(iii) The noncash payments an employer pays you for services not in the course of the employer's trade or business are not wages even if the employer has paid you cash wages of $100 or more in the calendar year for services of that type.
(iv) Amounts paid to you as a home worker as described in § 404.1008(d) are not wages unless you are paid $100 or more in cash in a calendar year. If you meet this test, any noncash payments you receive for your services also count as wages.
(v) Amounts paid to you as a home worker in a common-law employment relationship (see § 404.1007) count as wages regardless of amount or whether paid in cash or kind.
(3)
Definitions.
The term
services not in the course of the employer's trade or business
(also called nonbusiness work) means services that do not promote or advance the trade or business of the employer. Services performed for a corporation do not come within this definition. A homeworker is described in § 404.1008(c).
(b)
Nonprofit, income-tax exempt organizations
—(1)
The $100 standard.
We do not include as wages payments of less than $100 in a calendar year made by an employer that is an organization exempt from income tax under section 501 of the Code.
(2)
How evaluation is made.
We apply the $100 standard for a calendar year based on when the payments are made to you rather than when the pay is earned. To figure the $100 amount, both cash and noncash payments are counted. The $100 standard applies to each employer where you render services for two or more nonprofit, income-tax exempt organizations during a calendar year. The $100 standard also applies to each of you where a nonprofit, income-tax exempt organization has two or more employees. In applying the standard, the tax-exempt status of the employer and not the nature or place of your services is controlling.
(c)
Payments to members of the uniformed services
—(1)
The standard.
We include as the wages of a member of the uniformed services—
(i) Basic pay, as explained in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, for performing the services described in paragraph (a)(1) of § 404.1019 of this subpart; or
(ii) Compensation, as explained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, for performing the services described in paragraph (a)(2) of § 404.1019 of this subpart.
(2)
Wages deemed paid.
These following provisions apply to members of the uniformed services who perform services as described in paragraph (a)(1) of § 404.1019 of this subpart.
(i) After 1977, a member of the uniformed services is considered to have been paid additional wages of $100 for each $300 of basic pay paid to the individual in a calendar year. The amount of additional wages deemed paid cannot be more than $1,200 for any calendar year. No wages may be deemed paid for units of basic pay which are less than $300.
(ii) Before 1978, a member of the uniformed services is considered to have been paid additional wages of $300 for each calendar quarter after 1956 in which the individual is paid any amount of basic pay.
(3)
Basic pay. Basic pay
means the monthly pay prescribed by 37 U.S.C. 203 (Pay and Allowances for the Uniformed Services) for a member of the uniformed services on active duty or on active duty for training.
(4)
Compensation.
“Compensation” refers to the remuneration received for services as a member of a uniformed service, based on regulations issued by the Secretary concerned (as defined in 37 U.S.C. 101(5) under 37 U.S.C. 206(a), where such member is not entitled to the basic pay (as defined by paragraph (3) of this section).
(d)
Payments to volunteers and volunteer leaders in the Peace Corps.
If you are a
volunteer
or
volunteer leader
under the provisions of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501ff), payments for your services are wages with the exception of amounts in excess of the amounts certified as payable under section 5(
c
) or 6(
1
) of the Peace Corps Act. Amounts certified under those sections are considered to have been paid to the individual at the time the service is performed. See § 404.1018(
e
) on coverage of these services.
(e)
Moving expenses.
We do not include as wages amounts paid to, or on behalf of, an employee for moving expenses if it is reasonable to believe that a similar deduction is allowable under section 217 of the Code.
(f)
Payments by employer to survivor or estate of former employee.
We do not include as wages any payment by an employer to a survivor or the estate of a former employee after the calendar year in which the employee died.
(g)
Payments to an employee who is entitled to disability insurance benefits.
We do not include as wages any payments made by an employer to an employee if at the time such payment is made—
(1) The employee is entitled to disability insurance benefits under the Act;
(2) The employee's entitlement to such benefits began before the calendar year in which the employer's payment is made; and
(3) The employee performed no work for the employer in the period in which the payments were paid by such employer (regardless of whether the employee worked in the period the payments were earned).
(h)
Tips.
(1) We include as wages tips received by an employee if—
(i) The tips are paid in cash; and
(ii) The tips amount to $20 or more and are received in the course of employment by an employee in a calendar month.
(2) Cash tips include checks and other forms of money. Tips received in a form other than cash, such as passes, tickets, or other goods are not wages. If an employee works for more than one employer in a calendar month, we apply the $20 tip test to work done for each employer.
(i)
Payments by employer under group legal services plan.
We do not include as wages any contribution, payment, or service, provided by an employer under a qualified group legal services plan which is excludable from the gross income of an employee, or the employee's spouse or dependents, under section 120 of the Code.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 29662, Aug. 11, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990; 57 FR 59914, Dec. 17, 1992]
§ 404.1059
Deemed wages for certain individuals interned during World War II.
(a)
In general.
Persons who were interned during any period of time from December 7, 1941, through December 31, 1946, by the United States Government at a place operated by the Government within the United States for the internment of United States citizens of Japanese ancestry are deemed to have been paid wages (in addition to wages actually paid) as provided in paragraph (c) of this section during any period
after attaining age 18 while interned. This provision is effective for determining entitlement to, and the amount of, any monthly benefit for months after December 1972, for determining entitlement to, and the amount of, any lump-sum death payment in the case of a death after December 1972, and for establishing a period of disability.
(b)
Information needed to process deemed wages.
Unless we have already made a determination on deemed wages for a period of internment of an individual, any person applying for a monthly benefit, a recalculation of benefits by reason of this section, or a lump-sum death payment, must submit certain information before the benefit or payment may be computed on the basis of deemed wages. This information is—
(1) The place where the individual worked before internment;
(2) The highest hourly wage before internment;
(3) The place and date of internment;
(4) Date of birth (if not previously furnished);
(5) Whether or not another Federal benefit is being received based wholly or in part upon the period of internment; and
(6) In the case of a woman, her maiden name.
(c)
Amount of deemed wages.
The amount of wages which may be deemed is determined as follows:
(1)
Employed prior to internment.
If the individual was employed before being interned, the deemed wages are the greater of—
(i) The highest actual hourly rate of pay received for any employment before internment, multiplied by 40 for each full week during the period of internment; or
(ii) The Federal minimum hourly rate in effect for the period of internment, multiplied by 40 for each full week during that period.
(2)
Self-employed or not employed prior to internment.
If the individual was self-employed or was not employed before the period of internment, the deemed wages are the Federal minimum hourly rate in effect for that period, multiplied by 40 for each full week during the period.
(d)
When wages are not deemed.
Wages are not deemed under this section—
(1) For any period before the quarter in which the individual attained age 18; or
(2) If a larger benefit is payable without the deemed wages; or
(3) If a benefit based in whole or in part upon internment is determined by any agency of the United States to be payable under any other law of the United States or under a system set up by that agency. However, this exception does not apply in cases where the failure to receive deemed wages reduces the primary insurance amount by 50 cents or less.
(e)
Certification of internment.
The certification concerning the internment is made by the Archivist of the United States or his or her representative. After the internment has been verified, wages are deemed to have been paid to the internee.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 29662, Aug. 11, 1987. Redesignated at 55 FR 7310, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1060
[Reserved]

# Self-Employment
§ 404.1065
Self-employment coverage.
For an individual to have self-employment coverage under social security, the individual must be engaged in a trade or business and have net earnings from self-employment that can be counted as self-employment income for social security purposes. The rules explaining whether you are engaged in a trade or business are in §§ 404.1066 through 404.1077. What are net earnings from self-employment is discussed in §§ 404.1080 through 404.1095. Section 404.1096 describes the net earnings from self-employment that are counted as self-employment income for social security purposes. See § 404.1913 for the effect of a totalization agreement on self-employment coverage. An agreement may exempt an activity from coverage as well as extend coverage to an activity.
[50 FR 36574, Sept. 9, 1985]
§ 404.1066
Trade or business in general.
For you to be covered as a self-employed person for social security purposes, you must be engaged in a trade or business. You can carry on a trade or business as an individual or as a member of a partnership. With some exceptions, the term
trade or business
has the same meaning as it does when used in section 162 of the Code.
§ 404.1068
Employees who are considered self-employed.
(a)
General.
Although we generally exclude services performed by employees from the definition of trade or business, certain types of services are considered a trade or business even though performed by employees. If you perform any of the services described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, you are self-employed for social security purposes. Certain other services described in § 404.1071 (relating to ministers and members of religious orders) and § 404.1073 (relating to certain public officers) may be considered a trade or business even though performed by employees.
(b)
Newspaper vendors.
If you have attained age 18 and perform services as a newspaper vendor that are described in § 404.1030(b), you are engaged in a trade or business.
(c)
Sharefarmers.
If you perform services as a sharefarmer that are described in § 404.1017, you are engaged in a trade or business.
(d)
Employees of a foreign government, an instrumentality wholly owned by a foreign government, or an international organization.
If you are a United States citizen and perform the services that are described in § 404.1032, § 404.1033(a), or § 404.1034(a), you are engaged in a trade or business if the services are performed in the United States and are not covered as employment based upon § 404.1034(c).
(e)
Certain fishermen.
If you perform services as a fisherman that are described in § 404.1031, you are engaged in a trade or business.
(f)
Employees of a church or church-controlled organization that has elected to exclude employees from coverage as employment.
If you perform services that are excluded from employment as described in § 404.1026, you are engaged in a trade or business. Special rules apply to your earnings from those services which are known as church employee income. If you are paid $100 or more in a taxable year by an employer who has elected to have its employees excluded, those earnings are self-employment income (see § 404.1096(c)(1)). In figuring your church employee income you may not reduce that income by any deductions attributable to your work. Your church employee income and deductions may not be taken into account in determining the amount of other net earnings from self-employment. Effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1990, your church employee income is exempt from self-employment tax under the conditions set forth for members of certain religious groups (see § 404.1075).
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 36574, Sept. 9, 1985; 58 FR 64889, Dec. 10, 1993; 61 FR 38367, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1069
Real estate agents and direct sellers.
(a)
Trade or business.
If you perform services after 1982 as a qualified real estate agent or as a direct seller, as defined in section 3508 of the Code, you are considered to be engaging in a trade or business.
(b)
Who is a qualified real estate agent.
You are a qualified real estate agent as defined in section 3508 of the Code if you are a salesperson and—
(1) You are a licensed real estate agent;
(2) Substantially all of the earnings (whether or not paid in cash) for the services you perform as a real estate agent are directly related to sales or other output (including the performance of services) rather than to the number of hours worked; and
(3) Your services are performed under a written contract between yourself and the person for whom the services are performed which provides you will not be treated as an employee with respect to these services for Federal tax purposes.
(c)
Who is a direct seller.
You are a direct seller as defined in section 3508 of the Code if—
(1) You are engaged in the trade or business of selling (or soliciting the sale of) consumer products—
(i) To any buyer on a buy-sell basis, a deposit-commission basis, or any similar basis which the Secretary of the Treasury prescribes by regulations, for resale (by the buyer or any other person) in the home or in other than a permanent retail establishment; or
(ii) In the home or in other than a permanent retail establishment; and
(2) Substantially all of your earnings (whether or not paid in cash) for the performance of these services are directly related to sales or other output (including the performance of services) rather than to the number of hours worked; and
(3) Your services are performed under a written contract between yourself and the person for whom the services are performed which provides you will not be treated as an employee with respect to these services for Federal tax purposes.
[48 FR 40515, Sept. 8, 1983]
§ 404.1070
Christian Science practitioners.
If you are a Christian Science practitioner, the services you perform in the exercise of your profession are a trade or business unless you were granted an exemption from coverage under section 1402(e) of the Code, and you did not revoke such exemption in accordance with section 1704(b) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986. An exemption cannot be granted if you filed a valid waiver certificate under the provisions that apply to taxable years ending before 1968.
[55 FR 7311, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.1071
Ministers and members of religious orders.
(a) If you are a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister of a church, or a member of a religious order who has not taken a vow of poverty, the services you perform in the exercise of your ministry or in the exercise of duties required by the order (§ 404.1023(c) and (e)) are a trade or business unless you filed for and were granted an exemption from coverage under section 1402(e) of the Code, and you did not revoke such exemption in accordance with the Social Security Amendments of 1977, section 1704(b) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, or section 403 of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999. An exemption cannot be granted if you filed a valid waiver certificate under the provisions of section 1402(e) that apply to taxable years ending before 1968.
(b) If you are a member of a religious order and have taken a vow of poverty, the services you perform in the exercise of your duties required by the order may be covered as employment. (See § 404.1023 (a) and (e)).
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 7311, Mar. 1, 1990; 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004]
§ 404.1073
Public office.
(a)
General.
The performance of the functions of a public office is not a trade or business except under the circumstances explained in paragraph (b) of this section. If you are an officer of a State or political subdivision, you are considered as employee of the State or political subdivision.
(b)
State and local governmental employees paid by fees
—(1)
Voluntary coverage under section 218 of the Act.
The services of employees of States and political subdivisions, including those in positions paid solely on a fee-basis, may be covered as employment by a Federal-State agreement under section 218 of the Act (see subpart M of this part). States, when entering into these agreements, have the option of excluding under the agreement coverage of services in positions paid solely by fees. If you occupy a position paid solely on a fee-basis and the State has not covered your services under section 218 of the Act, you are considered to be engaged in a trade or business.
(2)
Mandatory old-age, survivors, disability, and hospital insurance coverage.
Beginning with services performed after July 1, 1991, Social Security coverage (old-age, survivors, disability, and hospital insurance) is mandatory, with certain exceptions, for services performed by employees of a State, a political subdivision of a State, or of a wholly owned instrumentality of one or more of the foregoing, if the employees are not members of a retirement
system of the State, political subdivision, or instrumentality. Among the exclusions from such mandatory coverage is service performed by an employee in a position compensated solely on a fee-basis which is treated pursuant to section 211(c)(2)(E) of the Act as a trade or business for purposes of inclusion of such fees in the net earnings from self-employment.
(3) If you are a notary public, you are not a public officer even though you perform a public function. Your services as a notary public are not covered for social security purposes.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59910, Dec. 17, 1992]
§ 404.1074
Farm crew leader who is self-employed.
If you are a farm crew leader and are deemed the employer of the workers as described in § 404.1010, we consider you to be engaged in a trade or business. This includes services performed in furnishing workers to perform agricultural labor for others, as well as services performed as a member of the crew.
§ 404.1075
Members of certain religious groups opposed to insurance.
(a) You may file an application with the Internal Revenue Service for exemption from social security self-employment tax if—
(1) You are a member of a recognized religious sect or division of the sect; and
(2) You adhere to the tenets or teachings of the sect or division of the sect and for this reason are conscientiously opposed to receiving benefits from any private or public insurance that—
(i) Makes payments in the event of death, disability, old age, or retirement; or
(ii) Makes payments toward the cost of, or provides services for, medical care (including the benefits of any insurance system established by the Act).
(b) Your application must be filed under the rules described in 26 CFR 1.1402(h). An application must contain or be accompanied by the applicant's waiver of all benefits and payments under title II and part A of title XVIII of the Act. See § 404.305 for the effect of the filing of the waiver and the granting of the exemption.
(c) Regardless of whether you meet all these conditions, your application for exemption will not be approved unless we find that—
(1) The sect or division of the sect has established tenets or teachings which cause you to be conscientiously opposed to the types of insurance benefits described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(2) For a substantial period of time it has been the practice for members of the sect or division of the sect to make provision for their dependent members which is reasonable in view of their general level of living; and
(3) The sect or division of the sect has been in existence continuously since December 31, 1950.
(d) Your application for exemption will be approved by the Internal Revenue Service only if no benefit or other payment under title II or part A of title XVIII of the Act became payable or, but for section 203 or section 222(b) of the Act, would have become payable, to you or on your behalf at or before the time of the filing of your application for exemption.
(e) The tax exemption ceases to be effective for any taxable year ending after the time you do not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or after the time we find the religious sect or division of the sect of which you are a member no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. If your tax exemption ceases to be effective, your waiver of the right to receive Social Security and Medicare part A benefits will also no longer be effective. Benefits may be payable based upon your wages for and after the calendar year following the calendar year in which the event occurred upon which the cessation of the exemption is based. Benefits may be payable based upon your self-employment income for and after the taxable year in which the event occurred upon which the cessation of the exemption is based.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 58 FR 64890, Dec. 10, 1993]
§ 404.1077
Individuals under railroad retirement system.
If you are an employee or employee representative as defined in section 3231 (b) and (c) of the Code, your work is not a trade or business. Your services are covered under the railroad retirement system.

# Self-Employment Income
§ 404.1080
Net earnings from self-employment.
(a)
Definition of net earnings from self-employment.
If you are self-employed, you must first determine the amount of your net earnings from self-employment before figuring the amount of your earnings that count for social security purposes. Some of your earnings may not be included as net earnings from self-employment even though they are taxable for income tax purposes. If you are an employee but we consider you to be self-employed for social security purposes, you must figure your earnings as though you were actually self-employed unless you work for a church or church-controlled organization that has exempted its employees (see § 404.1068(f)). Subject to the special rules in §§ 404.1081 through 404.1095, the term
net earnings from self-employment
means—
(1) Your gross income, as figured under subtitle A of the Code, from any trade or business you carried on, less deductions attributed to your trade or business that are allowed by that subtitle; plus
(2) Your distributive share of income (or loss) from a trade or business carried on by a partnership of which you are a member, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Income or loss from a partnership.
(1) Your distributive share (whether or not actually distributed) of the income or loss from any trade or business carried on by a partnership of which you are a member, other than as a limited partner, is determined under section 704 of the Code.
(2) If you are a limited partner, your distributive share is included in your net earnings from self-employment if—
(i) The amount is payable to you for services you render to or on behalf of the partnerships; and
(ii) It is a guaranteed payment described in section 707(c) of the Code.
(3) You are a
limited partner
if your financial liability for the obligations of the partnership is limited to the amount of your financial investment in the partnership. Generally, you will not have to perform services in the operation of, or participate in the control of, the business carried on by the partnership for the taxable year involved.
(c)
Reporting methods.
Your gross income from a trade or business includes the gross income you received (under the cash method) or that accrued to you (under the accrual method) from the trade or business in the taxable year. It is immaterial that the income may be attributable in whole or in part to services you rendered or other acts you performed in a prior taxable year.
(d)
What is a taxable year.
(1) The term
taxable year
means—
(i) Your annual accounting period on which you regularly figure your income in keeping your books; or
(ii) A short period resulting from your death before the end of your annual accounting period or from a change of your annual accounting period.
(2) The term
annual accounting period
means—
(i) A calendar year, consisting of 12 months ending on December 31; or
(ii) A fiscal year, consisting of—
(A) 12 months ending on the last day of any month other than December; or
(B) A period, if elected under section 441 of the Code, that varies from 52 to 53 weeks and always ends on the same day of the week that occurs last in a calendar month or nearest to the last day of the calendar month.
(3) Your taxable year for figuring self-employment income is the same as your taxable year for the purposes of subtitle A of the Code. Your taxable year is a calendar year if—
(i) You keep no books;
(ii) You have no annual accounting period; or
(iii) You have an annual accounting period that differs from the definition of fiscal year as described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 36574, Sept. 9, 1985]
§ 404.1081
General rules for figuring net earnings from self-employment.
(a)
Determining net earnings.
(1) In determining your gross income and the deductions attributable to your trade or business for the purpose of determining your net earnings from self-employment, the provisions that apply to the taxes imposed by sections 1 and 3 of the Code are used.
(2) If you use the accrual method of accounting to figure your taxable income from a trade or business, you must use the same method in determining your net earnings from self-employment.
(3) If you are engaged in a trade or business of selling property on the installment plan and elect, under the provisions of section 453 of the Code, to use the installment method of accounting in figuring your income, you must use the installment method in determining your net earnings from self-employment.
(4) Any income which can be excluded from gross income under any provision of subtitle A of the Code cannot be counted in determining your net earnings from self-employment, unless—
(i) You are a resident of Puerto Rico (see § 404.1089);
(ii) You are a minister or member of a religious order (see § 404.1091);
(iii) You are a United States citizen or resident engaged in a trade or business outside the United States (see § 404.1092); or
(iv) You are a citizen of, or have income from sources within, certain possessions of the United States (see § 404.1093).
(b)
Trade or business carried on.
You must carry on the trade or business either personally or through agents or employees. Income from a trade or business carried on by an estate or trust is not included in determining the net earnings from self-employment of the individual beneficiaries of the estate or trust.
(c)
Aggregate net earnings.
If you are engaged in more than one trade or business, your net earnings from self-employment consist of the total of the net income and losses of all the trades or businesses you carry on. A loss in one trade or business you carry on offsets the income from another trade or business.
(d)
Partnerships.
When you have net earnings from self-employment from a partnership as described in § 404.1080 (a) and (b), those net earnings are combined with your other net earnings from self-employment in determining your total net earnings from self-employment for the taxable year.
(e)
Different taxable years.
If you are a partner and your taxable year is different from that of the partnership, you must include, in figuring your net earnings from self-employment, your distributive share of the income or loss of the partnership for its taxable year ending with or within your taxable year. For the special rule in case of the termination of a partner's taxable year as a result of death, see § 404.1087.
(f)
Meaning of partnerships.
A partnership for social security purposes is one that is recognized as a partnership for income tax purposes. For income tax purposes, the term
partnership
includes not only a partnership as known under common law, but also a syndicate, group, pool, joint venture, or other unincorporated organization that carries on any trade or business, financial operation, or venture, and which is not a trust, estate, or a corporation.
(g)
Proprietorship taxed as domestic corporation.
If you are a proprietor of an unincorporated business enterprise and have elected to be taxed as a domestic corporation, you must figure your net earnings from self-employment without regard to the election you have made.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 36574, Sept. 9, 1985]
§ 404.1082
Rentals from real estate; material participation.
(a)
In general.
Your rentals from real estate and from personal property leased with the real estate (including rentals paid in crop shares) and the deductions attributable to the rentals are excluded in figuring your net earnings from self-employment, unless you receive the rentals in the course of a trade or business as a real estate dealer. If you are an owner or lessee of
land, rentals paid in crop shares include income you get under an agreement with another person if the arrangement provides for the following:
(1) The other person will produce agricultural or horticultural commodities on the land.
(2) The commodities produced, or the income from their sale, will be divided between you and the other person.
(3) The amount of your share depends on the amount of the commodities produced.
(b)
Real estate dealers.
(1) You are a real estate dealer if you are engaged in the business of selling real estate to customers for profit.
(2) If you merely hold real estate for investment or speculation and receive rental income from it, you are not considered a real estate dealer.
(3) If you are a real estate dealer, but also hold real estate for investment or speculation in addition to real estate you hold for sale to customers, only the rental income from the real estate held for sale to customers and the deductions attributable to it are included in determining your net earnings from self-employment. The rental income from real estate you hold for investment or speculation and the deductions attributable to it are not counted in figuring your net earnings from self-employment.
(c)
Special rule for farm rental income
—(1)
In general.
If you own or lease land, any income you derive from it is included in figuring your net earnings from self-employment if—
(i) The income results from an arrangement between you and another person which provides for the other person to produce agricultural or horticultural commodities on the land that you own or lease and for you to materially participate in the production or the management of the production of the agricultural or horticultural commodities; and
(ii) You actually do materially participate.
(2)
Nature of arrangement.
(i) The arrangement between you and the other person may be either oral or written. It must provide that the other person will produce one or more agricultural or horticultural commodities and that you will materially participate in the production or the management of the production of the commodities.
(ii) The term
production,
refers to the physical work performed and the expenses incurred in producing a commodity. It includes activities like the actual work of planting, cultivating, and harvesting crops, and the furnishing of machinery, implements, seed, and livestock.
(iii) The term
management of the production,
refers to services performed in making managerial decisions about the production of the crop, such as when to plant, cultivate, dust, spray, or harvest, and includes advising and consulting, making inspections, and making decisions on matters, such as rotation of crops, the type of crops to be grown, the type of livestock to be raised, and the type of machinery and implements to be furnished.
(3)
Material participation.
(i) If you show that you periodically advise or consult with the other person, who under the rental arrangement produces the agricultural or horticultural commodities, and also show that you periodically inspect the production activities on the land, you will have presented strong evidence that you are materially participating.
(ii) If you also show that you furnish a large portion of the machinery, tools, and livestock used in the production of the commodities, or that you furnish or advance monies, or assume financial responsibility, for a substantial part of the expense involved in the production of the commodities, you will have established that you are materially participating.
(4)
Employees or agents.
We consider any farm rental arrangement entered into by your employee or agent and another person to be an arrangement entered into by you. However, we do not consider the services of an employee or agent as your services in determining the extent to which you have participated in the production or management of production of a commodity.
(5)
Examples.

# Example 1.
After the death of her husband, Ms. A rents her farm, together with its machinery and equipment, to B for one-half of the proceeds from the commodities produced on the farm by B. It is agreed that B will live
in the tenant house on the farm and be responsible for the overall operation of the farm, such as planting, cultivating, and harvesting the field crops, caring for the orchard and harvesting the fruit and caring for the livestock and poultry. It also is agreed that Ms. A will continue to live in the farm residence and help B operate the farm. Under the agreement it is expected that Ms. A will regularly operate and clean the cream separator and feed the poultry flock and collect the eggs. When possible she will assist B in such work as spraying the fruit trees, penning livestock, culling the poultry, and controlling weeds. She will also assist in preparing the meals when B engages seasonal workers. The agreement between Ms. A and B clearly provides that she will materially participate in the overall production operations to be conducted on her farm by B. In actual practice, Ms. A regularly performs those services. The regularly performed services are material to the production of an agricultural commodity, and the services performed are material to the production operations to which they relate. The furnishing of a substantial portion of the farm machinery and equipment also supports the conclusion that Ms. A has materially participated. Accordingly, the rental income Ms. A receives from her farm should be included in her net earnings from self-employment.

# Example 2.
G owns a fully-equipped farm which he rents to H under an arrangement which provides that G will materially participate in the management of the production of crops raised on the farm under the arrangement. G lives in town about 5 miles from the farm. About twice a month he visits the farm and looks over the buildings and equipment. G may occasionally, in an emergency, discuss with H some phase of a crop production activity. In effect, H has complete charge of the management of farming operations regardless of the understanding between him and G. Although G pays one-half of the cost of the seed and fertilizer and is charged for the cost of materials purchased by H to make all necessary repairs, G's activities are not material in the crop production activities. Accordingly, G's income from the crops is not included in net earnings from self-employment.
(d)
Rental income from living quarters
—(1)
No services provided for occupants.
Payments you receive for renting living quarters in a private residence, duplex, or multiple-housing unit are generally rental income from real estate. Except in the case of real estate dealers, these payments are excluded in determining net earnings from self-employment, even if the payments are in part attributable to personal property furnished under the lease.
(2)
Services provided for occupants.
(i) Payments you receive for renting living quarters where services are also provided to the occupant, as in hotels, boarding houses, or apartment houses furnishing hotel services, or in tourist camps or tourist homes, are included in determining your net earnings from self-employment. Any payments you receive for the use of space in parking lots, warehouses, or storage garages are also included in determining your net earnings from self-employment.
(ii) Generally, we consider services to be provided to the occupant if they are primarily for the occupant's convenience and are other than those usually provided in connection with the rental of rooms or other space for occupancy only. We consider the supplying of maid service to be a service provided to the occupant. However, we do not consider the furnishing of heat and light, the cleaning of public entrances, exits, stairways, and lobbies and the collection of trash, as services provided to the occupant.

# Example:
A owns a building containing four apartments. During the taxable year, A received $1,400 from apartments numbered 1 and 2, which are rented without services provided to the occupants, and $3,600 from apartments numbered 3 and 4, which are rented with services provided. A's fixed expenses for the four apartments are $1,200 during the taxable year. In addition, A has $500 of expenses attributable to the services provided to the occupants of apartments 3 and 4. In determining his net earnings from self-employment, A includes the $3,600 received from apartments 3 and 4, and the expenses of $1,100 ($500 plus one-half of $1,200) attributable to them. The rentals and expenses attributable to apartments 1 and 2 are excluded. Therefore, A has $2,500 of net earnings from self-employment from the building for the taxable year.
(e)
Treatment of business income which includes rentals from real estate.
If an individual or a partnership is engaged in a trade or business other than real estate, and part of the income is rentals from real estate, only that part of the income which is not rentals and the expenses attributable to that portion are included in determining net earnings from self-employment.
§ 404.1083
Dividends and interest.
(a) The dividends you receive on shares of stock are excluded in determining your net earnings from self-employment, unless you are a dealer in stocks and securities and receive the dividends in the course of your trade or business.
(b) The interest you receive on a bond, debenture, note, certificate, or other evidence of indebtedness issued with interest coupons or in registered form by any corporation (including one issued by a government or political subdivision) is excluded in determining your net earnings from self-employment, unless you are a dealer in stocks and securities and receive the interest in the course of your trade or business.
(c) If you hold stocks or securities for investment or speculation purposes, any dividends and interest you receive that are excludable under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are excluded in determining your net earnings from self-employment, whether or not you are a dealer in stocks and securities.
(d) A dealer in stocks or securities is a merchant with an established place of business who is regularly engaged in the business of purchasing stocks or securities and reselling them to customers. The dealer, as a merchant, buys stocks or securities and sells them to customers with a view to making a profit. Persons who buy and sell or hold stocks or securities for investment or speculation, regardless of whether the buying or selling constitutes a trade or business, are not dealers in stocks or securities.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 25, 1980; 45 FR 25060, Apr. 14, 1980]
§ 404.1084
Gain or loss from disposition of property; capital assets; timber, coal, and iron ore; involuntary conversion.
(a) If you are engaged in a trade or business, you must, in determining your net earnings from self-employment, exclude any gain or loss—
(1) That is considered a gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset;
(2) From the cutting of timber or from the disposal of timber or coal, even if held primarily for sale to customers, if section 631 of the Code applies to the gain or loss;
(3) From the disposal of iron ore mined in the United States, even if held primarily for sale to customers, if section 631 of the Code applies to the gain or loss; and
(4) From the sale, exchange, involuntary conversion, or other disposition of property that is not—
(i) Stock in trade or other property of a kind which would properly be included in inventory if on hand at the close of the taxable year; or
(ii) Property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business;
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(4) of this section, it is immaterial whether a gain or loss is treated as a capital gain or as an ordinary gain or loss for purposes other than determining earnings from self-employment.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a)(4) of this section—
(1) The term
involuntary conversion
means a compulsory or unintended change of property into other property or money as a result of such things as destruction, theft or seizure; and
(2) The term
other disposition
includes destruction or loss by fire, theft, storm, shipwreck, or other casualty, even though there is no change of the property into other property or money.

# Example:
During the taxable year 1976, A, who owns a grocery store, had a net profit of $1,500 from the sale of groceries and a gain of $350 from the sale of a refrigerator case. During the same year, he had a loss of $2,000 as a result of damage by fire to the store building. In figuring taxable income for income tax purposes, all of these items are considered. In determining net earnings from self-employment, however, only the $1,500 of profit derived from the sale of groceries is included. The $350 gain and the $2,000 loss are excluded.
§ 404.1085
Net operating loss deduction.
When determining your net earnings from self-employment, you disregard the deduction provided by section 172 of the Code that relates to net operating losses sustained in years other than the taxable year.
§ 404.1086
Community income.
If community property laws apply to income that an individual derives from a trade or business (other than a trade or business carried on by a partnership), the gross income and deductions attributable to such trade or business shall be treated as the gross income and deductions of the spouse carrying on such trade or business or, if such trade or business is jointly operated, treated as the gross income and deductions of each spouse on the basis of his or her respective distributive share of the gross income and deductions.
[70 FR 41955, July 21, 2005]
§ 404.1087
Figuring partner's net earnings from self-employment for taxable year which ends as a result of death.
(a)
General.
In the case of a deceased partner whose taxable year ends because of death, the deceased partner's net earnings from self-employment includes the amount of his or her distributive share of partnership ordinary income or loss for the partnership's taxable year that is attributable to an interest in the partnership through the month of death.
(b)
Computation.
(1) The deceased partner's distributive share of partnership ordinary income or loss for the partnership taxable year in which death occurred is determined by applying the rules contained in paragraphs (d) and (f) of § 404.1081.
(2) The portion of the distributive share to be included in the deceased partner's net earnings from self-employment for his or her last taxable year is determined by treating the ordinary income or loss constituting the distributive share as having been realized or sustained ratably over the partnership taxable year during which the deceased partner had an interest in the partnership and during which the deceased partner's estate, or any other person succeeding by reason of the death to rights to his partnership interest, held an interest in the partnership.
(c)
Deceased partner's distributive share.
A deceased partner's distributive share includes the distributive share of the estate or of any other person succeeding to the interest of a deceased partner. It does not include any share attributable to a partnership interest that was not held by the deceased partner at the time of death. If a deceased partner's estate should acquire an interest in a partnership in addition to the interest to which it succeeded upon the death of the deceased partner, the amount of the distributive share attributable to the additional interest acquired by the estate is not included in computing the deceased partner's distributive share of the partnership's ordinary income or loss for the partnership taxable year.
(d)
Options available to farmers.
In determining the applicability of the optional method of figuring net earnings from self-employment to a member of a farm partnership it is necessary to determine the partner's distributive share of partnership gross income or distributive share of income described in section 702(a)(8) of the Code.
§ 404.1088
Retirement payment to retired partners.
(a)
In general.
If you are a retired partner, in figuring your net earnings from self-employment you must exclude payments made to you on a periodic basis by a partnership on account of your retirement and which are to continue until your death. This exclusion applies only if the payments are made under a written plan which meets the requirements set out in 26 CFR 1.1402(a)-(17) and the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section are met. The necessary requirements and conditions must be met throughout the entire partnership's taxable year for the payments to be excluded so that either all or none of the payments are excluded.
(b)
Other conditions.
You must have been paid your full share of the partnership's capital before the close of the partnership's taxable year in which retirement payments are made. Also, no member of the partnership can have any financial obligations to you (in his or her capacity as a partner) except to make the retirement payments. Lastly, you cannot perform any services for the partnership in the partnership's taxable year which falls wholly or partially in your taxable year in which you receive the retirement payments.

# Example:
D, a partner in the DEF partnership, retired from the partnership as of December 31, 1976. The taxable year of both D and the partnership is the calendar year. During the partnership's taxable year ending December 31, 1977, D rendered no service to any trade or business carried on by the partnership. On or before December 31, 1977, all obligations (other than retirement payments under the plan) from the other partners to D were liquidated, and D's share of the capital of the partnership was paid to him. Retirement payments received by D under the partnership's plan in his taxable year ending December 31, 1977, are excluded in determining net earnings from self-employment (if any) for that taxable year.
§ 404.1089
Figuring net earnings for residents and nonresidents of Puerto Rico.
(a)
Residents.
If you are a resident of Puerto Rico, whether or not you are an alien, a citizen of the United States, or a citizen of Puerto Rico, you must figure your net earnings from self-employment in the same manner as would a citizen of the United States residing in the United States. In figuring your net earnings from self-employment you must include your income from sources in Puerto Rico even though you are a resident of Puerto Rico during the entire taxable year.
(b)
Nonresidents.
A citizen of Puerto Rico, who is also a citizen of the United States and who is not a resident of Puerto Rico must figure net earnings from self-employment in the same manner as other citizens of the United States.
§ 404.1090
Personal exemption deduction.
The deduction provided by section 151 of the Code, relating to personal exemptions, is excluded in determining net earnings from self-employment.
§ 404.1091
Figuring net earnings for ministers and members of religious orders.
(a)
General.
If you are a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister of a church or a member of a religious order who has not taken a vow of poverty, we consider you to be engaged in a trade or business under the conditions described in § 404.1071 with regard to services described in § 404.1023 (c) and (e). In figuring your net earnings from self-employment from performing these services, you must include certain income (described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) that may be excluded from your gross income for income tax purposes.
(b)
Housing and meals.
You must include in figuring your net earnings from self-employment the rental value of a home furnished to you and any rental allowance paid to you as payment for services performed in the exercise of your ministry or in the exercise of duties required by your order even though the rental value or rental allowance may be excluded from gross income by section 107 of the Code. Also, the value of any meals or lodging furnished to you in connection with the performance of these services is included in figuring your net earnings from self-employment even though their value is excluded from gross income by section 119 of the Code.
(c)
Housing allowance when included in retirement pay.
You must exclude any parsonage or housing allowance included in your retirement pay or any other retirement benefit received after retirement pursuant to a church plan as defined in section 414(e) of the Internal Revenue Code when computing your net earnings from self-employment. For example, if a minister retires from Church A and the rental value of a parsonage or any other allowance is included in his/her retirement pay, the parsonage allowance must be excluded when determining net earnings from self-employment. However, if this same retired minister goes to work for Church B and is paid a parsonage allowance by Church B, this new income must be included when computing net earnings from self-employment.
(d)
Services outside the United States.
If you are a citizen or resident of the United States performing services outside the United States which are in the exercise of your ministry or in the exercise of duties required by your order, your net earnings from self-employment from the performance of these services are figured as described in paragraph (b) of this section. However, they are figured without regard to the exclusions from gross income provided
in sections 911 and 931 of the Code relating to earned income from services performed outside the United States and from sources within possessions of the United States.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 36574, Sept. 9, 1985; 70 FR 41955, July 21, 2005]
§ 404.1092
Figuring net earnings for U.S. citizens or residents living outside the United States.
(a)
Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1983.
If you are a citizen or resident of the United States and are engaged in a trade or business outside the United States, your net earnings from self-employment are figured without regard to the exclusion from gross income provided by section 911 (a)(1) of the Code.
(b)
Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1981, and before January 1, 1984.
If you are a citizen of the United States and were engaged in a trade or business outside the United States, your net earnings from self-employment are figured without regard to the exclusion from gross income provided by section 911(a)(1) of the Code unless you are a resident of a foreign country or countries for an uninterrupted period which includes an entire taxable year.
[50 FR 36574, Sept. 9, 1985]
§ 404.1093
Possession of the United States.
In using the exclusions from gross income provided under section 931 of the Code (relating to income from sources within possessions of the United States) and section 932 of the Code (relating to citizens of possessions of the United States) for purposes of figuring your net earnings from self-employment, the term
possession of the United States
shall be deemed not to include the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004]
§ 404.1094
Options available for figuring net earnings from self-employment.
(a)
General.
If you have income from a trade or business in certain situations, you have options for figuring your net earnings from self-employment. The options available to you depend on whether you have income from an agricultural trade or business or a non-agricultural trade or business. For a definition of agricultural trade or business see § 404.1095.
(b)
Agricultural trade or business.
The net earnings from self-employment you derive from an agricultural trade or business may, at your option, be figured as follows:
(1)
Gross income of $2,400 or less.
If your gross income is $2,400 or less you may, at your option, report 66
2/3
percent of the gross income as net earnings from self-employment instead of your actual net earnings from your business.
(2)
Gross income of more than $2,400.
If your gross income is more than $2,400 and your actual net earnings from your business are less than $1,600 you may, at your option, report $1,600 as net earnings from self-employment instead of your actual net earnings. If your actual net earnings are $1,600 or more you cannot use the optional method.
(3)
Two or more agricultural trades or businesses.
If you carry on more than one agricultural trade or business as a sole proprietor or as a partner, you must combine your gross income and net income from each trade or business to find out whether you may use the optional method of figuring net earnings.
(c)
Non-agricultural trade or business.
(1) The net earnings from self-employment you derive from a non-agricultural trade or business may be reported under an optional method if you are self-employed on a regular basis (as defined in paragraph (c)(4) of this section). You cannot use the optional method of reporting for more than 5 taxable years, and you cannot report less than your actual net earnings from self-employment.
(2)
Computation.
If your actual net earnings from self-employment are less than $1,600 and less than 66
2/3
percent of your gross income, you may, at your
option, report 66
2/3
percent of your gross income (but not more than $1,600) as your net earnings from self-employment.

# Example:
A operates a grocery store and files income tax returns on a calendar year basis. A meets the
self-employed on a regular basis
requirement because actual net earnings from self-employment were $400 or more in 1976 and in 1977. Gross income and net profit from operating the grocery store in 1978 through 1980 are as follows:
1978
1979
1980
Gross income
$2,800
$1,200
$1,000
Net profit
300
400
800
For the year 1978, A may report as annual net earnings from self-employment either—
(i) None. (Actual net earnings from self-employment are less than $400); or
(ii) $1,600. (Non-agricultural option, 66
2/3
percent of $2,800, but not to exceed the $1,600 maximum.)
For the year 1979, A may report as annual net earnings from self-employment either—
(i) $400. (Actual net earnings from self-employment); or
(ii) $800. (Non-agricultural option, 66
2/3
percent of $1,200.)
For the year 1980, A must report $800, the actual net earnings from self-employment. The non-agricultural option is not available because A's actual net earnings are not less than 66
2/3
percent of the gross income.
(3)
Figuring net earnings from both non-agricultural and agricultural self-employment.
If you are self-employed on a regular basis, you may use the non-agricultural optional method of reporting when you have both non-agricultural and agricultural trades or businesses. However, in order to use this method, your actual net earnings from non-agricultural self-employment combined with your actual net earnings from agricultural self-employment, or your optional net earnings from agricultural self-employment, must be less than $1,600, and the net non-agricultural earnings must be less than 66
2/3
percent of your gross non-agricultural income. If you qualify for using both the non-agricultural and agricultural option, you may report less than your actual total net earnings, but not less than your actual net earnings from non-agricultural self-employment alone. If you elect to use both options in a given taxable year, the combined maximum reportable net earnings from self-employment may not exceed $1,600.

# Example:
C was regularly self-employed. She derived actual net earnings from self-employment of $400 or more in 1975 and in 1976. Her gross income and net profit from operating both a grocery store and a farm in 1978 are:
Grocery Store
Gross income
$1,000
Net profit
800
Farm
Gross income
$2,600
Net profit
400
For the year 1978, C may report $1,200 (actual net earnings from self-employment from both businesses), or $2,400 ($1,600 agricultural option (66
2/3
percent of $2,600 farm gross income not to exceed $1,600) and $800 grocery store profit). C cannot use the non-agricultural option for 1978 because her actual grocery store net exceeds 66
2/3
percent of her grocery store gross income.
(4)
Self-employed on a regular basis.
For any taxable year beginning after 1972, we consider you to be self-employed on a regular basis, or to be a member of a partnership on a regular basis, if, in at least 2 of the 3 taxable years immediately before that taxable year, you had actual net earnings from self-employment of not less than $400 from agricultural and non-agricultural trades or businesses (including your distributive share of the net income or loss from any partnership of which you are a member).
(d)
Members of partnerships.
If you are a member of a partnership you may use the optional method of reporting. Your gross income is your distributive share of the partnership's gross income (after all guaranteed payments to which section 707(c) of the Code applies have been deducted), plus your own guaranteed payment.
(e)
Computing gross income.
For purposes of this section gross income means—
(1) Under the cash method of computing, the gross receipts from the trade or business reduced by the cost or other basis of property that was purchased and sold, minus any income that is excluded in computing net earnings from self-employment; or
(2) Under the accrual method of computing, the gross income minus any income that is excluded in figuring net earnings from self-employment.
(f)
Exercise of option.
For each taxable year for which you are eligible to use the optional method and elect to use that method, you must figure your net earnings from self-employment in that manner on your tax return for that year. If you wish to change your method of reporting after your tax return is filed, you may change it by filing an amended tax return with the Internal Revenue Service or by filing with us Form 2190, Change in Method of Computing Net Earnings from Self-Employment.
§ 404.1095
Agricultural trade or business.
(a) An agricultural trade or business is one in which, if the trade or business were carried on entirely by employees, the major portion of the services would be agricultural labor (§ 404.1057).
(b)(1) If the services are partly agricultural and partly non-agricultural, the time devoted to the performance of each type of service is the test used to determine whether the major portion of the services is agricultural labor.
(2) If more than half of the time spent in performing all the services is spent in performing services that are agricultural labor, the trade or business is agricultural.
(3) If half or less of the time spent in performing all the services is spent in performing services that are agricultural labor, the trade or business is not agricultural. The time spent in performing the services is figured by adding the time spent in the trade or business during the taxable year by every individual (including the individual carrying on the trade or business and the members of that individual's family).
(c) We do not apply the rules in this section if the non-agricultural services are performed in connection with a trade or business separate and distinct from the agricultural trade or business. A roadside automobile service station on a farm is a trade or business separate and distinct from the agricultural trade or business, and the gross income from the service station, less the deductions attributable to it, is to be considered in determining net earnings from self-employment.
(d) We consider a sharefarmer (see § 404.1068(c)) or a materially participating owner or tenant (see § 404.1082(c)) to be engaged in an agricultural trade or business. We use the rules in this section to determine whether a farm crew leader who is self-employed (see § 404.1074) is engaged in an agricultural trade or business.
§ 404.1096
Self-employment income.
(a)
General.
Self-employment income is the amount of your net earnings from self-employment that is subject to social security tax and counted for social security benefit purposes. The term
self-employment income
means the net earnings from self-employment you derive in a taxable year, except as described in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section.
(b)
Maximum self-employment income.
(1) The term
self-employment income
does not include that part of your net earnings from self-employment that exceeds (or that part of your net earnings from self-employment which, when added to the wages you received in that taxable year, exceeds)—
Taxable year
Amount
Ending before 1955
$3,600
Ending in 1955 through 1958
4,200
Ending in 1959 through 1965
4,800
Ending in 1966 and 1967
6,600
Ending after 1967 and beginning before 1972
7,800
Beginning in 1972
9,000
Beginning in 1973
10,800
Beginning in 1974
13,200
Beginning in 1975
14,100
Beginning in 1976
15,300
Beginning in 1977
16,500
Beginning in 1978
17,700
Beginning in 1979
22,900
Beginning in 1980
25,900
Beginning in 1981
29,700
Beginning in 1982
32,400
Beginning in 1983
35,700
Beginning in 1984
37,800
Beginning in 1985
39,600
Beginning in 1986
42,000
Beginning in 1987
43,800
Beginning in 1988
45,000
Beginning in 1989
48,000
Beginning in 1990
51,300
Beginning in 1991
53,400
Beginning in 1992
55,500
(2) For the purpose of this paragraph the term
wages
includes remuneration paid to an employee for services covered by an agreement entered into under section 218 of the Act, or an agreement entered into under section 3121(l) of the Code, which would be
wages under section 209 of Act if the services were considered employment under section 210(a) of the Act.
(c)
Minimum net earnings from self employment.
(1) Self-employment income does not include your net earnings from self-employment when the amount of those earnings for the taxable year is less than $400. If you have only $300 of net earnings from self-employment for the taxable year you would not have any self-employment income. (Special rules apply if you are paid $100 or more and work for a church or church-controlled organization that has exempted its employees (see § 404.1068(f)).)
(2) If you have net earnings from self-employment of $400 or more for the taxable year you may have less than $400 of creditable self-employment income. This occurs where your net earnings from self-employment is $400 or more for a taxable year and the amount of your net earnings from self-employment plus the amount of the wages paid to you during that taxable year exceed the maximum creditable earnings for a year. For example, if you had net earnings from self-employment of $1,000 for 1978, and were also paid wages of $17,500 during 1978, your creditable self-employment income for 1978 would be $200.
(d)
Nonresident aliens.
A nonresident alien has self-employment income only if coverage is provided under a totalization agreement [see § 404.1913]. We do not consider an individual who is a resident of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa to be a nonresident alien.
[45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 36575, Sept. 9, 1985; 52 FR 8250, Mar. 17, 1987; 57 FR 44098, Sept. 24, 1992; 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004]
Subpart L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Coverage of Employees of State and Local Governments

# Authority:
Secs. 205, 210, 218, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405, 410, 418, and 902(a)(5)); sec. 12110, Pub. L. 99-272, 100 Stat. 287 (42 U.S.C. 418 note); sec. 9002, Pub. L. 99-509, 100 Stat. 1970.

# Source:
53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 404.1200
General.
(a)
Coverage under section 218 of the Act.
Under section 218 of the Social Security Act (the Act) a State may ask the Commissioner of Social Security to enter into an agreement to extend Federal old-age, survivors, disability and hospital insurance coverage to groups of employees of the State and its political subdivisions. The Commissioner shall enter into such an agreement. State and local government employees, after being covered under an agreement, have the same benefit rights and responsibilities as other employees who are mandatorily covered under the programs. For payments due on wages paid before 1987, the State assumes full financial and reporting responsibility for all groups covered under its agreement. The agreement may not be terminated in its entirety or with respect to any coverage group under that agreement. For payments due on wages paid in the year 1987 and years later, section 9002 of Pub. L. 99-509 amends section 218 of the Act by transferring responsibility for collecting contributions due and receiving wage reports from the Social Security Administration (SSA) to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Sections of the regulations wholly or partly affected by this amendment to the Act are appended with the phrase “—for wages paid prior to 1987.”
(b)
Mandatory old-age, survivors, disability, and hospital insurance coverage.
Under section 210(a)(7)(F) of the Act, mandatory old-age, survivors, disability, and hospital insurance coverage is extended to certain services performed after July 1, 1991, by individuals who are employees of a State (other than the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa), a political subdivision of the State, or any wholly owned instrumentality of one or more of the foregoing, and who are not members of the employer's retirement system. Certain
services are excluded from such mandatory coverage (see § 404.1020(a)(3).
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 59911, Dec. 17, 1992; 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997; 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004]
§ 404.1201
Scope of this subpart regarding coverage and wage reports and adjustments.
This subpart contains the rules of SSA about:
(a) Coverage under section 218 of the Act—
(1) How a State enters into and modifies an agreement; and
(2) What groups of employees a State can cover by agreement.
(b) Contributions, wage reports, and adjustments—for wages paid prior to 1987—
(1) How a State must identify covered employees and what records it must keep on those employees;
(2) Periodic reviews of the source records kept on covered employees;
(3) How and when a State must report wages and pay contributions;
(4) What the State's liability for contributions is and how SSA figures the amount of those contributions;
(5) What happens if a State fails to pay its contributions timely;
(6) How errors in reports and contribution payments are corrected;
(7) How overpayments of contributions are credited or refunded;
(8) How assessments are made if contributions are underpaid; and
(9) How a State can obtain administrative or judicial review of a decision on a credit, refund, or assessment.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 59911, Dec. 17, 1992; 65 FR 16813, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.1202
Definitions.
(a) Terms which have special meaning in this subpart are described in this section. Where necessary, further explanation is included in the section where the term is used.
(b)
Coverage terms:
Agreement—
The agreement between the Commissioner of Social Security and the State containing the conditions under which retirement, survivors, disability and hospital insurance coverage is provided for State and local government employees.
Coverage—
The extension of Social Security protection (retirement, survivors, disability, and hospital insurance) by agreement between the Commissioner of Social Security and a State to employees of the State and its political subdivisions or by agreement between the Commissioner of Social Security and an interstate instrumentality to employees of the interstate instrumentality.
Coverage group—
The grouping by which employees are covered under an agreement.
Employee—
An employee as defined in section 210(j) of the Act. Usually, the common-law control test is used in determining whether an employer-employee relationship exists. The term also includes an officer of a State or political subdivision.
Governmental function—
The traditional functions of government: legislative, executive, and judicial.
Interstate instrumentality—
An independent legal entity organized by two or more States to carry out one or more functions. For Social Security coverage purposes under section 218 of the Act, an interstate instrumentality is treated, to the extent practicable, as a “State.”
Modification—
A change to the agreement between the Commissioner of Social Security and a State which provides coverage of the services of employees not previously covered or which alters the agreement in some other respect.
Political subdivision—
A separate legal entity of a State which usually has specific governmental functions. The term ordinarily includes a county, city, town, village, or school district, and in many States, a sanitation, utility, reclamation, drainage, flood control, or similar district. A political subdivision includes an instrumentality of a State, one or more political subdivisions of a State, or a State and one or more of its political subdivisions.
Proprietary function—
A business engaged in by a State or political subdivision such as a public amusement park or public parking lot.
Retirement system—
A pension, annuity, retirement, or similar fund or system established by a State or political subdivision.
SSA—
The Social Security Administration.
State—
Includes the fifty States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. It does not include the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa. “State” also refers to an interstate instrumentality where applicable.
We—
The Social Security Administration.
(c)
Contributions, wage reporting, and adjustment terms—for wages paid prior to 1987:
Allowance of a credit or refund—
The written notice to a State of the determination by SSA of the amount owed to the State by SSA, the period involved, and the basis for the determination.
Assessment—
The written notice to a State of the determination by SSA of the amount (contributions or accrued interest) owed to SSA by the State, the period involved, and the basis for the determination.
Contributions—
Payments made under an agreement which the State deposits in a Federal Reserve bank. The amounts are based on the wages paid to employees whose services are covered under an agreement. These amounts are equal to the taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code on emp1oyers and employees in private employment.
Contribution return—
Form used to identify and account for all contributions actions.
Disallowance of a State's claim for credit or refund—
The written notice to a State of the determination by SSA that the State's claim for credit or refund is denied, the period involved, and the basis for the determination.
Overpayment—
A payment of more than the correct amount of contributions or interest.
Underpayment—
A payment of less than the correct amount of contributions or interest.
Wage reports—
Forms used to identify employees who were paid wages for covered employment and the amounts of those wages paid. This includes corrective reports.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997; 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004]
§ 404.1203
Evidence—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
State's responsibility for submitting evidence.
The State, under the provisions of the agreement, is responsible for accurately reporting the wages paid employees for services covered by the agreement and for paying the correct amount of contributions due on those wages. This responsibility includes submitting evidence to verify the accuracy of the reports and payments.
(b)
Failure to submit requested evidence.
The State is required to submit information timely to SSA. If we request additional evidence to verify the accuracy of reports and payments, we specify when that evidence must be submitted. If we do not receive the evidence timely, and the State provides no satisfactory explanation for its failure to submit the evidence timely, we may proceed, if appropriate, on the basis of the information we have. Proceeding on the basis of the information we have permits us to credit the wage records of employees properly, where possible, while continuing to work with the State to resolve remaining discrepancies.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1204
Designating officials to act on behalf of the State.
(a) Each State which enters into an agreement shall designate the official or officials authorized to act on the State's behalf in administering the agreement. Each State shall inform SSA of the name, title, and address of the designated official(s) and the extent of each official's authority. For example, a State may indicate that the State official is authorized:
(1) To enter into an agreement and execute modifications to the agreement; and
(2) To carry out the ministerial duties necessary to administer the agreement.
For wages paid prior to 1987:
(3) To enter into agreements to extend or re-extend the time limit for assessment or credit;
(4) To make arrangements in connection with onsite reviews; and
(5) To request administrative review of an assessment, an allowance of a credit or refund, or a disallowance of a credit or refund.
(b) Each State shall inform SSA timely of changes in designated officials or changes in their authority.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]

# What Groups of Employees May Be Covered
§ 404.1205
Absolute coverage groups.
(a)
General.
An absolute coverage group is a permanent grouping of employees, e.g., all the employees of a city or town. It is a coverage group for coverage and reporting purposes. When used for coverage purposes, the term refers to groups of employees whose positions are not under a retirement system. An absolute coverage group may include positions which were formerly under a retirement system and, at the State's option, employees who are in positions under a retirement system but who are ineligible (see § 404.1208) to become members of that system.
(b)
What an absolute coverage group consists of.
An absolute coverage group consists of one of the following employee groups:
(1) State employees performing services in connection with the State's governmental functions;
(2) State employees performing services in connection with a single proprietary function of the State;
(3) Employees of a State's political subdivision performing services in connection with that subdivision's governmental functions;
(4) Employees of a State's political subdivision performing services in connection with a single proprietary function of the subdivision;
(5) Civilian employees of a State's National Guard units; and
(6) Individuals employed under an agreement between a State and the U.S. Department of Agriculture as agricultural products inspectors.
(c)
Designated coverage groups.
A State may provide coverage for designated (
i.e.
, selected) absolute coverage groups of the State or a political subdivision. When coverage is extended to these designated groups, the State must specifically identify each group as a designated absolute coverage group and furnish the effective date of coverage and any optional exclusion(s) for each group. Where a State has provided coverage to designated absolute coverage groups, the State may, by modifying its agreement, extend that coverage to any absolute coverage group in the State.
§ 404.1206
Retirement system coverage groups.
(a)
General.
Section 218(d) of the Act authorizes coverage of services of employees in positions under a retirement system. For purposes of obtaining coverage, a system may be considered a separate retirement system authorized by sections 218(d)(6) (A) or (B) or 218(l) of the Act. Under these sections of the Act a State may designate the positions of any one of the following groupings of employees as a separate retirement system:
(1) The entire system;
(2) The employees of the State under the system;
(3) The employees of each political subdivision in the State under the system;
(4) The employees of the State and the employees of any one or more of the State's political subdivisions;
(5) The employees of any combination of the State's political subdivisions;
(6) The employees of each institution of higher learning, including junior colleges and teachers colleges;
(7) The employees of a hospital which is an integral part of a political subdivision; or
(8) The employees in police officers' positions or firefighters' positions, or both.
If State law requires a State or political subdivision to have a retirement system, it is considered established even though no action has been taken to establish the system.
(b)
Retirement system coverage groups.
A retirement system coverage group is a grouping of employees in positions under a retirement system. Employees in positions under the system have voted for coverage for the system by referendum and a State has provided coverage by agreement or modification of its agreement. It is not a permanent grouping. It exists only for referendum and coverage purposes and is not a separate group for reporting purposes. Once coverage has been obtained, the retirement system coverage group becomes part of one of the absolute coverage groups described in § 404.1205(b).
(c)
What a retirement system coverage group consists of.
A retirement system coverage group consists of:
(1) Current employees—all employees whose services are not already covered by the agreement, who are in positions covered by the same retirement system on the date an agreement or modification of the agreement is made applicable to the system;
(2) Future employees—all employees in positions brought under the system after an agreement or modification of the agreement is signed; and
(3) Other employees—all employees in positions which had been under the retirement system but which were not under the retirement system when the group was covered (including ineligibles who had been optionally excluded from coverage under section 218(c)(3)(B) of the Act).
(d)
Referendum procedures.
Prior to signing the agreement or modification, the governor or an official of the State named by the governor (for an interstate instrumentality, its chief executive officer) must certify to the Commissioner that:
(1) All eligible employees were given at least 90 days' notice of the referendum;
(2) All eligible employees were given an opportunity to vote in the referendum;
(3) Only eligible employees were permitted to vote in the referendum;
(4) Voting was by secret written ballot on the question of whether service in positions covered by the retirement system should be included under an agreement;
(5) The referendum was conducted under the supervision of the governor or agency or individual named by him; and
(6) A majority of the retirement system's eligible employees voted for coverage under an agreement.
The State has two years from the date of a favorable referendum to enter into an agreement or modification extending coverage to the retirement system coverage group. If the referendum is unfavorable, another referendum cannot be held until at least one year after that unfavorable referendum.
(e)
Who is covered.
If a majority of the eligible employees in a retirement system vote for coverage, all employees in positions in that retirement system become covered.
(f)
Coverage of employees in positions under more than one retirement system.
(1) If an employee occupies two or more positions each of which is under a different retirement system, the employee's coverage in each position depends upon the coverage extended to each position under each system.
(2) If an employee is in a single position which is under more than one retirement system (because the employee's occupancy of that position permits her or him to become a member of more than one retirement system), the employee is covered when the retirement system coverage group including her or his position is covered under an agreement unless (A) he or she is not a member of the retirement system being covered and (B) he or she is a member of a retirement system which has not been covered. This rule also applies to the coverage of services in police officers' and firefighters' positions in States and interstate instrumentalities as discussed in § 404.1212(c).
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 38367, July 24, 1996; 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1207
Divided retirement system coverage groups.
(a)
General.
Under section 218(d)(6)(C) of the Act certain States and under
section 218(g)(2) of the Act all interstate instrumentalities may divide a retirement system based on whether the employees in positions under that system want coverage. The States having this authority are Alaska, California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin.
(b)
Divided retirement system coverage group.
A divided retirement system coverage group is a grouping under a retirement system of positions of members of the system who voted for coverage and positions of individuals who become members of the system (the “yes” group), and positions of members of the system who did not elect coverage (the “no” group) and ineligible employees (see § 404.1208). For purposes of this section for groups covered after 1959, the term “member” also includes individuals who have an option to become members of the retirement system but have not done so. The position of a member in the “no” group can be covered if, within two years after the agreement or modification extending coverage to the “yes” group is executed, the State provides an opportunity to transfer the position to the covered “yes” group and the individual occupying the position makes a written request for the transfer. The members of the “no” group can also be covered if, by referendum, a majority of them vote for coverage. If the majority votes for coverage, all positions of the members of the “no” group become covered. There is no further subdivision of the “no” group into those who voted for and those who voted against coverage. If the State requests, the ineligibles in the “no” group may become part of the “yes” group and have their services covered.
(c)
Referendum procedures.
To divide a retirement system, the State must conduct a referendum among the system's employees. If the system is to be divided, the governor or an individual named by him must certify to the Secretary that:
(1) The referendum was held by written ballot on the question of whether members of a retirement system wish coverage under an agreement;
(2) All members of the retirement system at the time the vote was held had the opportunity to vote;
(3) All members of the system on the date the notice of the referendum was issued were given at least 90 days' notice regarding the referendum;
(4) The referendum was conducted under the supervision of the governor or agency or person designated by him; and
(5) The retirement system was divided into two parts, one composed of positions of members of the system who voted for coverage and the other composed of the remaining positions under the retirement system.
After the referendum the State may include those members who chose coverage under its agreement as a retirement system coverage group. The State has two years from the date of the referendum to enter into an agreement or modification extending coverage to that group.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 70 FR 41956, July 21, 2005]
§ 404.1208
Ineligible employees.
(a)
Definition.
An ineligible is an employee who, on first occupying a position under a retirement system, is not eligible for membership in that system because of a personal disqualification like age, physical condition, or length of service.
(b)
Coverage of ineligible employees.
A State may, in its agreement or any modification to the agreement, provide coverage for the services of ineligible employees in one of three ways:
(1) As part of or as an addition to an absolute coverage group;
(2) As part of a retirement system coverage group covering all positions under the retirement system; or
(3) As part of or as an addition to a retirement system coverage group composed of those members in positions in a retirement system who chose coverage.
§ 404.1209
Mandatorily excluded services.
Some services are mandatorily excluded from coverage under a State's agreement. They are:
(a) Services of employees who are hired to relieve them from unemployment;
(b) Services performed in an institution by a patient or inmate of the institution;
(c) Transportation service subject to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act;
(d) Certain emergency services in case of fire, storm, snow, volcano, earthquake, flood or other similar emergency; and
(e) Services other than agricultural labor or student services which would be excluded from coverage if performed for a private employer.
(f) Services covered under section 210(a)(7)(F) of the Act. (See § 404.1200(b).)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 59911, Dec. 17, 1992]
§ 404.1210
Optionally excluded services.
Certain services and positions may, if the State requests it, be excluded from coverage. These exclusions may be applied on a statewide basis or selectively by coverage groups. They are:
(a) Services in any class or classes of elective positions;
(b) Services in any class or classes of part-time positions;
(c) Services in any class or classes of positions where the pay is on a fee basis;
(d) Any agricultural labor or student services which would also be excluded if performed for a private employer; and
(e) For modifications executed after 1994, services performed by election officials or election workers if the payments for those services in a calendar year are less than $1000 for calendar years after 1994 and before 2000, or, for calendar years after 1999, are less than the $1000 base amount as adjusted pursuant to section 218(c)(8)(B) of the Act to reflect changes in wages in the economy. We will publish this adjustment of the $1000 base amount in the
Federal Register
on or before November 1 preceding the year for which the adjustment is made.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 38367, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.1211
Interstate instrumentalities.
For Social Security coverage purposes under section 218 of the Act, interstate instrumentalities are treated, to the extent practicable, as States, that is:
(a) They must be legally authorized to enter into an agreement with the Commissioner;
(b) They are subject to the same rules that are applied to the States;
(c) They may divide retirement systems and cover only the positions of members who want coverage; and
(d) They may provide coverage for firefighters and police officers in positions under a retirement system.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 38368, July 24, 1996; 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1212
Police officers and firefighters.
(a)
General.
For Social Security coverage purposes under section 218 of the Act, a police officer's or firefighter's position is any position so classified under State statutes or court decisions. Generally, these positions are in the organized police and fire departments of incorporated cities, towns, and villages. In most States, a police officer is a member of the “police” which is an organized civil force for maintaining order, preventing and detecting crimes, and enforcing laws. The terms “police officer” and “firefighter” do not include services in positions which, although connected with police and firefighting functions, are not police officer or firefighter positions.
(b)
Providing coverage.
A State may provide coverage of:
(1) Police officers' and firefighters' positions not under a retirement system as part of an absolute coverage group; or
(2) Police officers' or firefighters' positions, or both, as part of a retirement system coverage group.
(c)
Police officers and firefighters in positions under a retirement system.
All States and interstate instrumentalities may provide coverage for employees in police officers' or firefighters' positions, or both, which are under a retirement system by following the majority vote referendum procedures in
§ 404.1206(d). In addition, all interstate instrumentalities and the States listed in § 404.1207 may use the desire for coverage procedures described in § 404.1207.
[61 FR 38368, July 24, 1996]

# How Coverage Under Agreements Is Obtained and Continues
§ 404.1214
Agreement for coverage.
(a)
General.
A State may enter into a written agreement with the Commissioner to provide for Social Security coverage for its employees or the employees of one or more of its political subdivisions. An interstate instrumentality may enter into a similar agreement for its employees. These agreements cover employees in groups of positions or by types of services rather than the individual employees.
(b)
Procedures.
A State or interstate instrumentality may request coverage by submitting to SSA a proposed written agreement for the desired coverage.
(c)
Authority to enter into an agreement for coverage
—(1)
Federal law.
Section 218(a) of the Act requires the Commissioner to enter into an agreement, at the request of the State, to extend Social Security coverage to the State's employees or those of its political subdivisions. Section 218(g) authorizes the Commissioner to enter into an agreement, at the request of an interstate instrumentality, to extend Social Security coverage to the employees of the interstate instrumentality.
(2)
State law.
State law must authorize a State or an interstate instrumentality to enter into an agreement with the Commissioner for Social Security coverage.
(d)
Provisions of the agreement.
The agreement must include:
(1) A description of the specific services to be covered and excluded;
(2) The State's promise to pay, to the Secretary of the Treasury, contributions equal to the sum of the taxes which would be required under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act from employers and employees if the employment were in the private sector;
(3) The State's promise to comply with the regulations the Commissioner prescribes for carrying out the provisions of section 218 of the Act; and
(4) Identification of the political subdivisions, coverage groups, or services being covered and the services that are excluded.
The agreement must be signed by the authorized State or interstate instrumentality official and the Commissioner or his or her designee.
(e)
Effective date.
The agreement must specify an effective date of coverage. However, the effective date cannot be earlier than the last day of the sixth calendar year preceding the year in which the agreement is mailed or delivered by other means to the Commissioner. The agreement is effective after the effective date.
(f)
Applicability of agreement.
The agreement establishes the continuing relationship between the Commissioner and the State or interstate instrumentality except as it is modified (see §§ 404.1215-404.1217).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1215
Modification of agreement.
(a)
General.
A State or interstate instrumentality may modify in writing its agreement, for example, to:
(1) Exclude, in limited situations, employee services or positions previously covered;
(2) Include additional coverage groups; or
(3) Include as covered services:
(i) Services of covered employees for additional retroactive periods of time; and
(ii) Services previously excluded from coverage.
(b)
Controlling date for retroactive coverage.
A State may specify in the modification a date to make all individuals in the coverage group who were in an employment relationship on that date eligible for retroactive coverage. This date is known as the controlling date for retroactive coverage. It can be no earlier than the date the modification is mailed or otherwise delivered to the Commissioner nor can it be later than the date the modification is signed by the Commissioner. If the State does not designate a controlling date, the
date the modification is signed by the Commissioner is the controlling date.
(c)
Conditions for modification.
The provisions of section 218 of the Act which apply to the original agreement also apply to a modification to the agreement.
(d)
Effective date.
Generally, a modification must specify an effective date of coverage. However, the effective date cannot be earlier than the last day of the sixth calendar year preceding the year in which the modification is mailed or delivered by other means to the Commissioner. The modification is effective after the effective date.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1216
Modification of agreement to correct an error.
(a)
General.
If an agreement or modification contains an error, the State may correct the error by a subsequent modification to the agreement. For example, the agreement or modification incorrectly lists a covered service as an optionally excluded service or shows an improper effective date of coverage. In correcting this type of error, which affects the extent of coverage, the State must submit a modification along with evidence to establish that the error occurred. However, a modification is not needed to correct minor typographical or clerical errors. For example, an agreement or modification incorrectly lists School District No. 12 as School District No. 13. This type of error can be corrected based on a written request from the appropriate official of the State or interstate instrumentality.
(b)
Correction of errors involving erroneous reporting to the IRS—for wages paid prior to 1987.
Where a State or political subdivision makes reports and payments to the Internal Revenue Service under the provisions of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act which apply to employees in private employment in the mistaken belief that this action would provide coverage for its employees, the State may provide the desired coverage for those same periods of time by a subsequent modification to its agreement. If State law permits, the State may make that coverage effective with the first day of the first period for which the erroneous reports and payments were made. (In this instance, the limitation on retroactive coverage described in § 404.1215(d) is not applicable.) Where the State does not want to provide such retroactive coverage or is not permitted to do so by State law, the State may provide the coverage for the affected coverage group as of a specified date (§ 404.1215(b)). The coverage would then apply to the services performed by individuals as members of the coverage group
(1) Who were employees on that date, and
(2) Whose wages were erroneously reported to IRS, and
(3) For whom a refund of FICA taxes has not been obtained at the time the Commissioner.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1217
Continuation of coverage.
The coverage of State and local government employees continues as follows:
(a)
Absolute coverage group.
Generally, the services of an employee covered as a part of an absolute coverage group (see § 404.1205) continue to be covered indefinitely. A position covered as a part of an absolute coverage group continues to be covered even if the position later comes under a retirement system. This includes policemen's and firemen's positions which are covered with an absolute coverage group.
(b)
Retirement system coverage group.
Generally, the services of employees in positions covered as a part of a retirement system coverage group continue to be covered indefinitely. For a retirement system coverage group made up of members who chose coverage, a position continues to be covered until it is removed from the retirement system and is no longer occupied by a member who chose coverage or by a new member of the system. Coverage is not terminated because the positions are later covered under additional retirement
systems or removed from coverage under a retirement system, or because the retirement system is abolished with respect to the positions. However, if the retirement system has been abolished, newly created or reclassified positions or positions in a newly created political subdivision cannot be covered as a part of the retirement system coverage group. If the retirement system is not abolished, a newly created or reclassified position is a part of the coverage group if the position would have been a part of the group had it existed earlier. If the retirement system coverage group is made up of members who chose coverage, the newly created or reclassified position is a part of the coverage group if it is occupied by a member who chose coverage or by a new member.
§ 404.1218
Resumption of coverage.
Before April 20, 1983, an agreement could be terminated in its entirety or with respect to one or more coverage groups designated by the State. Coverage of any coverage group which has been previously terminated may be resumed by a modification to the agreement.
§ 404.1219
Dissolution of political subdivision.
If a political subdivision whose employees are covered under the agreement is legally dissolved, the State shall give us satisfactory evidence of its dissolution or nonexistence. The evidence must establish that the entity is not merely inactive or dormant, but that it no longer legally exists. We will notify the State whether the evidence is satisfactory.

# How To Identify Covered Employees
§ 404.1220
Identification numbers.
(a)
State and local governments.
When a State submits a modification to its agreement under section 218 of the Act, which extends coverage to periods prior to 1987, SSA will assign a special identification number to each political subdivision included in that modification. SSA will send the State a Form SSA-214-CD, “Notice of Identifying Number,” to inform the State of the special identification number(s). The special number will be used for reporting the pre-1987 wages to SSA. The special number will also be assigned to an interstate instrumentality if pre-1987 coverage is obtained and SSA will send a Form SSA-214-CD to the interstate instrumentality to notify it of the number assigned.
(b)
Coverage group number for coverage groups.
If a State's agreement provides coverage for a State or a political subdivision based on designated proprietary or governmental functions, the State shall furnish a list of those groups. The list shall identify each designated function and the title and business address of the official responsible for filing each designated group's wage report. SSA assigns a coverage group number to each designated group based on the information furnished in the list.
(c)
Unit numbers for payroll record units.
SSA assigns, at a State's request, unit numbers to payroll record units within a State or political subdivision. When a State requests separate payroll record unit numbers, it must furnish the following:
(1) The name of each payroll record unit for the coverage group; and
(2) The title and business address of the official responsible for each payroll unit.
(d)
Unit numbers where contribution amounts are limited—for wages paid prior to 1987.
An agreement, or modification of an agreement, may provide for the computation of contributions as prescribed in § 404.1256 for some employees of a political subdivision. In this situation, SSA assigns special unit numbers to the political subdivision to identify those employees. SSA does not assign a special unit number to a political subdivision in which the contributions for all employees are computed as prescribed in § 404.1256.
(e)
Use.
For wages paid prior to 1987, the employer shall show the appropriate SSA-issued identifying number,
including any coverage group or payroll record unit number, on records, reports, returns, and claims to report wages, adjustments, and contributions.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 42433, Aug. 16, 1995; 64 FR 33016, June 21, 1999; 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]

# What Records of Coverage Must Be Kept
§ 404.1225
Records—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Who keeps the records.
Every State which enters into an agreement shall keep, or require the political subdivisions whose employees are included under its agreement to keep, accurate records of all remuneration (whether in cash or in a medium other than cash) paid to employees performing services covered by that agreement. These records shall show for each employee:
(1) The employee's name, address, and Social Security number;
(2) The total amount of remuneration (including any amount withheld as contributions or for any other reason) and the date the remuneration was paid and the period of services covered by the payment;
(3) The amount of remuneration which constitutes wages (see § 404.1041 for wages and §§ 404.1047-404.1059 for exclusions from wages); and
(4) The amount of the employee's contribution, if any, withheld or collected, and if collected at a time other than the time such payment was made, the date collected. If the total remuneration (paragraph (a)(2) of this section) and the amount which is subject to contribution (paragraph (a)(3) of this section) are not equal, the reason shall be stated.
The State shall keep copies of all returns, reports, schedules, and statements required by this subpart, copies of claims for refund or credit, and copies of documents about each adjustment made under § 404.1265 or § 404.1271 as part of its records. These records may be maintained by the State or, for employees of a political subdivision, by the political subdivision. Each State shall use forms and systems of accounting as will enable the Commissioner to determine whether the contributions for which the State is liable are correctly figured and paid.
(b)
Place and period of time for keeping records.
All records required by this section shall:
(1) Be kept at one or more convenient and safe locations accessible to reviewing personnel (see § 404.1232(a));
(2) Be available for inspection by reviewing personnel at any time; and
(3) Be maintained for at least four years from the date of the event recorded. (This four-year requirement applies regardless of whether, in the meantime, the employing entity has been legally dissolved or, before April 20, 1983, the agreement was terminated in its entirety or in part.)
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]

# Review of Compliance by State With Its Agreement
§ 404.1230
Onsite review program.
To ensure that the services of employees covered by a State's agreement are reported and that those employees receive Social Security credit for their covered earnings, we periodically review the source records upon which a State's contribution returns and wage reports are based. These reviews are designed:
(a) To measure the effectiveness of the State's systems for ensuring that all wages for those employees covered by its agreement are reported and Social Security contributions on those wages are paid;
(b) To detect any misunderstanding of coverage or reporting errors and to advise the State of the corrective action it must take; and
(c) To find ways to improve a State's recordkeeping and reporting operations for the mutual benefit of the State and SSA.
§ 404.1231
Scope of review.
The onsite review focuses on four areas:
(a) State's controls and recordkeeping—to assess a State's systems
for assuring timely receipt, correctness, and completeness of wage reports and contribution returns;
(b) Instruction, education, and guidance a State provides local reporting officials—to assess a State's systems for assuring on a continuing basis that all reporting officials and their staffs have the necessary instructions, guidelines, and training to meet the State's coverage, reporting and recordkeeping requirements;
(c) Compliance by reporting officials—to assess a State's systems for assuring that the reporting officials in the State have adequate recordkeeping procedures, are properly applying the appropriate provisions of the State's agreement, and are complying with reporting requirements; and
(d) Quality control with prompt corrective action—to assess a State's systems for assuring that its reports and those of its political subdivisions are correct, for identifying the causes and extent of any deficiencies, and for promptly correcting these deficiencies.
§ 404.1232
Conduct of review.
(a) Generally, SSA staff personnel conduct the onsite review. Occasionally, members of the Office of the Inspector General may conduct or participate in the review.
(b) The review is done when considered necessary by SSA or, if practicable, in response to a State's specific request for a review.
(c) All pertinent source records prepared by the State or its political subdivisions are reviewed, on site, to verify the wage reports and contribution returns. We may review with the appropriate employees in a subdivision those source records and how the information is gathered, processed, and maintained. We notify the State's Social Security Administrator when we plan to make the review and request her or him to make the necessary arrangements.
(d) The review is a cooperative effort between SSA and the States to improve the methods for reporting and maintaining wage data to carry out the provisions of the agreement.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1234
Reports of review's findings.
We provide the State Social Security Administrator with reports of the review's findings. These reports may contain coverage questions which need development and resolution and reporting errors or omissions for the State to correct promptly. These reports may also recommend actions the State can take to improve its information gathering, recordkeeping, and wage reporting systems, and those of its political subdivisions.

# How To Report Wages and Contributions—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1237
Wage reports and contribution returns—general—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Wage reports.
Each State shall report each year the wages paid each covered employee during that year. With the wage report the State shall also identify, as prescribed by SSA, each political subdivision by its assigned identification number and, where appropriate, any coverage group or payroll record unit number assigned.
(b)
Wage reports of remuneration for agricultural labor.
A State may exclude from its agreement any services of employees the remuneration for which is not wages under section 209(h)(2) of the Act. Section 209(h)(2) excludes as wages the cash remuneration an employer pays employees for agricultural labor which is less than $150 in a calendar year, or, if the employee performs the agricultural labor for the employer on less than 20 days during a calendar year, the cash remuneration computed on a time basis. If a State does exclude the services and the individual meets the cash-pay or 20-day test described in § 404.1056, the State shall identify on the wage report and on any adjustment report each individual performing agricultural labor and the amount paid to her or him.
(c)
Contribution returns.
The State shall forward the contribution return as set out in § 404.1249(b). It shall make contribution payments under § 404.1262.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1239
Wage reports for employees performing services in more than one coverage group—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Employee of State in more than one coverage group.
If a State employee is in more than one coverage group, the State shall report the employee's total wages, up to the annual wage limitations in § 404.1047, as though the wages were paid by only one of the coverage groups.
(b)
Employee of political subdivision in more than one coverage group.
If an employee of a political subdivision is in more than one coverage group, the State shall report the employee's total wages, up to the annual wage limitations in § 404.1047, as though the wages were paid by only one of the coverage groups.
(c)
Employee of State and one or more political subdivisions.
If an individual performs covered services as an employee of the State and an employee of one or more political subdivisions and the State agreement does not provide for limiting contributions under section 218(e)(2) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509, the State and each political subdivision shall report the amount of covered wages it paid the employee up to the annual wage limitations in § 404.1047.
(d)
Employee of more than one political subdivision.
If an individual performs covered services as an employee of more than one political subdivision and the State agreement does not provide for limiting contributions under section 218(e)(2) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509, each political subdivision shall report the covered wages it paid the employee up to the annual wage limitations in § 404.1047.
(e)
Employee performing covered services for more than one political entity where section 218(e)(2) of the Act is applicable.
If an agreement provides for limiting contributions under section 218(e)(2) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509, the reporting officials compute the total amount of wages paid the employee by two or more political subdivisions of a State, or a State and one or more of its political subdivisions, which were subject to section 218(e)(2) of the Act. The State reports the amount of wages paid up to the annual wage limitations in § 404.1047. The employee is treated as having only one employer. If the employee also had wages not subject to section 218(e)(2) of the Act, the State shall report those wages separately.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1242
Back pay.
(a)
Back pay defined.
Back pay is pay received in one period of time which would have been paid in a prior period of time except for a wrongful or improper action taken by an employer. It includes pay made under Federal or State laws intended to create an employment relationship (including situations where there is unlawful refusal to hire) or to protect an employee's right to wages.
(b)
Back pay under a statute.
Back pay under a statute is a payment by an employer following an award, determination or agreement approved or sanctioned by a court or administrative agency responsible for enforcing a Federal or State statute protecting an employee's right to employment or wages. Examples of these statutes are:
(1) National Labor Relations Act or a State labor relations act;
(2) Federal or State laws providing reemployment rights to veterans;
(3) State minimum wage laws; and
(4) Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Payments based on legislation comparable to and having a similar effect as those listed in this paragraph may also qualify as having been made under a statute. Back pay under a statute, excluding penalties, is wages if paid for covered employment. It is allocated to the periods of time in which it should have been paid if the employer had not violated the statute. For backpay awards affecting periods prior to 1987, a State must fill a wage report and pay the contributions due for all periods involved in the back pay award under the rules applicable to those periods.
(c)
Back pay not under a statute.
Where the employer and the employee agree on the amount payable without
any award, determination or agreement approved or sanctioned by a court or administrative agency, the payment is not made under a statute. This back pay cannot be allocated to prior periods of time but must be reported by the employer for the period in which it is paid.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1243
Use of reporting forms—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Submitting wage reports.
In the form and manner required by SSA, a State shall submit an annual report of the covered wages the State and its political subdivisions paid their employees. Any supplemental, adjustment, or correctional wage report filed is considered a part of the State's wage report.
(b)
Correction of errors.
If a State fails to report or incorrectly reports an employee's wages on its wage report, the State shall submit a corrective report as required by SSA.
(c)
Reporting on magnetic tape or other media.
After approval by SSA, a State may substitute magnetic tape or other media for any form required for submitting a report or reporting information.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1247
When to report wages—for wages paid prior to 1987.
A State shall report wages for the calendar year in which they were actually paid. If the wages were constructively paid in a prior calendar year, the wages shall be reported for the prior year (see § 404.1042(b) regarding constructive payment of wages).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1249
When and where to make deposits of contributions and to file contribution returns and wage reports—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Deposits of contributions.
The State shall pay contributions in the manner required in § 404.1262. (For failure to make deposits when due see § 404.1265.) The contribution payment is considered made when received by the appropriate Federal Reserve bank or branch (see § 404.1262). Except as provided in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) and paragraph (c) of this section, contributions are due and payable as follows:
(1)
For wages paid before July 1, 1980.
Contribution payments for wages paid in a calendar quarter are due on the 15th day of the second month following the end of the calendar quarter during which the wages were paid.
(2)
For wages paid beginning July 1, 1980, and before January 1984.
Contribution payments for wages paid in a calendar month are due within the thirty day period following the last day of that month.
(3)
For wages paid after December 1983 and prior to 1987.
Contribution payments for wages paid in the first half of a calendar month are due on the last day of that month. Contribution payments for wages paid in the second half of that calendar month are due on the fifteenth day of the next month. (For purposes of this section, the first half of a calendar month is the first 15 days of that month and the second half is the remainder of that month.)
(b)
Contribution returns and wage reports
—(1)
Where to be filed.
The State shall file the original copies of all contribution returns, wage reports, and adjustment reports with the SSA.
(2)
When to be filed
—(i)
For years prior to execution of agreement or modification.
If an agreement or modification provides for the coverage of employees for periods prior to 1987, the State shall pay contributions due and shall file wage reports with SSA for these periods within 90 days after the date of the notice that the Commissioner has signed the agreement or modification.
(ii)
For year of execution of agreement or modification.
If the agreement or modification provides for the coverage of employees for the year of execution of the agreement or modification, the
State may, within 90 days after the date of the notice that the Commissioner has signed the agreement or modification, submit a single contribution return and pay all contributions due for the following periods:
(A) The month in which the agreement or modification was signed;
(B) Any prior months in that year; and
(C) Any subsequent months before January 1984 (half-months after December 1983) whose contribution return and payment due date is within this 90 day period. The State shall file wage reports for that year by February 28 of the year following the date of execution or within 90 days of the date of the notice, whichever is later.
(iii)
For years after execution of agreement or modification.
Except as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, when the State pays its contributions under paragraph (a) of this section, it shall also file a contribution return. The State shall file the wage report for any calendar year after the year of execution of the agreement or modification by February 28 of the following calendar year.
(iv) For good cause shown, and upon written request by a State, the Commissioner may allow additional time for filing the reports and paying the related contributions described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Due date is on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday.
If the last day for filing the wage report falls on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, the State may file the wage report on the next Federal workday. If the due date for paying contributions for the wages paid in a period (as specified in paragraph (a) of this section) falls on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, the State shall pay the contributions and shall file the contribution return no later than—
(i) The preceding Federal workday for wages paid in July 1980 through December 1983;
(ii) The next Federal workday for wages paid before July 1980 or after December 1983.
(4)
Submitting reports and payments.
When submitting the contribution returns or wage reports the State shall release them in time to reach SSA by the due date. When submitting contribution payments as described in § 404.1262, the State shall release the payments in time to reach the appropriate Federal Reserve bank or branch by the due date. In determining when to release any returns, reports, or payments the State shall provide sufficient time for them to timely reach their destination under the method of submission used, e.g., mail or electronic transfer of funds.
(c)
Payments by third party on account of sickness or accident disability.
Where a third party makes a payment to an employee on account of sickness or accident disability which constitutes wages for services covered under a State agreement, the wages will be considered, for purposes of the deposits required under this section, to have been paid to the employee on the date on which the employer receives notice from the third party of the amount of the payment. No interest will be assessed for failure to make a timely deposit of contributions due on such wages for which a deposit was made after December 1981 and before July 1982, to the extent that the failure to make the deposit timely is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1251
Final reports—for wages paid prior to 1987.
If a political subdivision is legally dissolved, the State shall file a final report on that entity. The report shall include each coverage group whose existence ceases with that of the entity. It shall:
(a) Be marked “final report”;
(b) Cover the period during which final payment of wages subject to the agreement is made; and
(c) Indicate the last date wages were paid.
With the final report, the State shall submit a statement showing the title and business address of the State official responsible for keeping the State's records and of each State and local official responsible for keeping the records for each coverage group whose existence is ended. The State shall also
identify, as prescribed by SSA, each political subdivision by its assigned number and, where applicable, any coverage group or payroll record unit number assigned.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]

# What Is a State's Liability for Contributions—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1255
State's liability for contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
A State's liability for contributions equals the sum of the taxes which would be imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, if the services of the employees covered by the State's agreement were employment as defined in section 3121 of the Code. The State's liability begins when those covered services are performed, for which wages are actually or constructively paid to those individuals, including wages paid in a form other than cash (see § 404.1041(d)). If an agreement is effective retroactively, the State's liability for contributions on wages paid during the retroactive period begins with the date of execution of the agreement or applicable modification. Where coverage of a coverage group has been terminated, the State is liable for contributions on wages paid for covered services even if the wages are paid after the effective date of termination of coverage.
§ 404.1256
Limitation on State's liability for contributions for multiple employment situations—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Limitation due to multiple employment.
Where an individual in any calendar year performs covered services as an employee of a State and as an employee of one or more political subdivisions of the State, or as an employee of more than one political subdivision; and the State provides all the funds for payment of the amounts which are equivalent to the taxes imposed on the employer under FICA on that individual's remuneration for those services; and no political subdivision reimburses the State for paying those amounts; the State's agreement or modification of an agreement may provide that the State's liability for the contributions on that individual's remuneration shall be computed as though the individual had performed services in employment for only one political subdivision. The State may then total the individual's covered wages from all these governmental employers and compute the contributions based on that total subject to the wage limitations in § 404.1047.
(b)
Identification of employees in multiple employment.
An agreement or modification of an agreement providing for the computation of contributions as described in paragraph (a) of this section shall identify the class or classes of employees to whose wages this method of computing contributions applies. For example, the State may provide that such computation shall apply to the wages paid to all individuals for services performed in positions covered by a particular retirement system, or to the wages paid to all individuals who are members of any two or more coverage groups designated in an agreement or modification. The State shall promptly notify SSA if the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are no longer met by any class or classes of employees identified in an agreement or modification. In its notification, the State shall identify each class of employees and the date on which the conditions ceased to be met.
(c)
Effective date.
In the agreement or modification, the State shall provide that the computation of contributions shall apply to wages paid after the effective date stated in the agreement or modification. That date may be the last day of any calendar year; however, it may be no earlier than January 1 of the year in which the agreement or modification is submitted to SSA.

# Figuring the Amount of the State's Contributions—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1260
Amount of contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
The State's contributions are equal to the product of the applicable contribution rate (which is equivalent to
both the tax rates imposed under sections 3101 and 3111 of the Internal Revenue Code) times the amount of wages actually or constructively paid for covered services each year (subject to the wage limitations in § 404.1047) to the employee.
§ 404.1262
Manner of payment of contributions by State—for wages paid prior to 1987.
When paying its contributions, the State shall deposit its payment at the specific Federal Reserve bank or branch designated by SSA.
§ 404.1263
When fractional part of a cent may be disregarded—for wages paid prior to 1987.
In paying contributions to a Federal Reserve bank or branch, a State may disregard a fractional part of a cent unless it amounts to one-half cent or more, in which case it shall be increased to one cent. Fractional parts of a cent shall be used in computing the total of contributions.

# If a State Fails To Make Timely Payments—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1265
Addition of interest to contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Contributions not paid timely.
If a State fails to pay its contributions to the appropriate Federal Reserve bank or branch (see § 404.1262), when due under § 404.1249(a), we add interest on the unpaid amount of the contributions beginning with the date the payment was due, except as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Interest, if charged, begins with the due date even if it is a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonwork day. Interest is added at the rate prescribed in section 218(j) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509.
(b)
Method of making adjustment.
(1) If a State shall file a contribution return and shall accompany such return with payment of contributions due and payable as reported on such return in accordance with § 404.1249 but the amount of the contributions reported and paid is less than the correct amount of contributions due and payable and the underpayment of contributions is attributable to an error in computing the contributions (other than an error in applying the rate of contributions in effect at the time the wages were paid), the State shall adjust the underpayment by reporting the additional amount due by reason of such underpayment either as an adjustment of total contributions due with the first wage report filed after notification of the underpayment by the Social Security Administration, or as a single adjustment of total contributions due with any contribution return filed prior to the filing of such wage report.
(2) If an underpayment of contributions is due to an underreporting of or a failure to report one or more employees:
(i) Where the underreporting or failure to report has been ascertained by the State, the State may cause an adjustment by filing a report within 30 days after ascertainment of the error by the State;
(ii) Where the underreporting or failure to report has been ascertained by the Social Security Administration, a notification of underpayment shall be forwarded to the State, and the State may cause an adjustment of the underpayment by returning to the Social Security Administration, within 30 days from the date of the notification, a copy of the notification of underpayment and the State's corrected report. The report shall show the amount of wages, if any, erroneously reported for the reporting period and the correct amount of wages that should have been reported and the identification number of the State or the political subdivision for each employee who was omitted or erroneously reported. The filing to correct an underreporting of or a failure to report one or more employees' wages shall not constitute an adjustment under this section unless the wages were erroneously omitted or erroneously reported.
(c)
Payment.
The amount of each underpayment adjusted in accordance with this section shall be paid to the Federal Reserve Bank, or branch thereof, serving the district in which the State is located, without interest, at the time of reporting the adjustment; except that where any amounts due with respect to such an adjustment had
been paid in error to IRS and a refund thereof timely requested from, or instituted by, IRS, the amount of underpayment adjusted in accordance with this section, plus any interest paid by IRS on the amount of such underpayment, shall be paid to the Federal Reserve Bank, or branch thereof, serving the district in which the State is located, at the time of reporting the adjustment or within 30 days after the date of issuance by IRS of the refund of the erroneous payments, whichever is later. Except as provided in the preceding sentence of this paragraph, if an adjustment is reported pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, but the amount thereof is not paid when due, interest thereafter accrues.
(d)
Verifying contributions paid against reported wages.
We check the computation of contributions to verify that a State has paid the correct amount of contributions on the wages it reports for a calendar year (see § 404.1249(b)(2)). If we determine that a State paid less than the amount of contributions due for that year, we add interest to the amount of the underpayment. We would add interest beginning with the date the unpaid contributions were initially due to the date those contributions are paid. However, if the total amount of the underpayment is 5 percent or less than 5 percent of the contributions due for a calendar year based upon the State's wage report and the State deposits the underpaid amount within 30 days after the date of our notification to the State of the amount due, the State may request that the interest on the underpaid amount be waived for good cause. This request must be made within 30 days of our notification to the State of the amount due. Such requests will be evaluated on an individual basis. The evaluation will include, but not be limited to, consideration of such factors as the circumstances causing the late payment, the State's past record of late payments and the amount involved.

# Examples
(1) The records of a political subdivision for the month of June are destroyed by fire. The State makes an estimated deposit of contributions for the month of June for that political subdivision and deposits contributions for the month of June for all other political subdivisions based on actual records. At the time SSA verifies contributions paid against reported wages, we discover that the State has paid only 97 percent of its total liability for the year. Within 30 days after we notify it of the amount due, the State asks that we waive the interest on the unpaid amount and the State deposits the unpaid amount. In this situation, we would waive the interest on the unpaid contributions.
(2) We would waive interest if:
(i) Some of the political subdivisions made small arithmetical errors in preparing their reports of wages,
(ii) After verification of the contributions paid against reported wages, SSA discovers that minimal additional contributions are due,
(iii) Within 30 days of our notice to the State regarding this underpayment the State, which usually makes its deposits timely, pays the amount due, and
(iv) Within that same 30 day period the State requests that we waive the interest due.
(3) We would not waive interest where a State frequently has problems depositing its contributions timely. Reasons given for the delays are, e.g., the computer was down, the 5 p.m. mail pickup was missed, one of the school district reports was misplaced. If requested we would not waive interest on this State's late payment of contributions based upon its past record of late payments and because of the circumstances cited.
(e)
Due date is on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday.
If the last day of the 30-day periods specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section is on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, the State shall make the required deposit or request for waiver of payment of interest on the next Federal workday.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1267
Failure to make timely payments—for wages paid prior to 1987.
If a State does not pay its contributions when due, the Commissioner has the authority under section 218(j) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509 to deduct the amounts of the unpaid contributions plus interest at the rate prescribed from any amounts certified by her or him to the Secretary of the Treasury
for payments to the State under any other provision of the Social Security Act. The Commissioner notifies the Secretary of the Treasury of the amounts deducted and requests that the amount be credited to the Trust Funds. Amounts deducted are considered paid to the State under the other provision of the Social Security Act.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]

# How Errors in Reports and Contributions Are Adjusted—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1270
Adjustments in general—for wages paid prior to 1987.
States have the opportunity to adjust errors in the payment of contributions. A State but not its political subdivisions is authorized to adjust errors in the underpayment of contributions. Similarly, the State shall file all claims for credits or refunds and SSA makes the credits and refunds only to the State. Generally, we do not refund contributions in cash to a State unless the State is not expected to have future liability for contributions under section 218 of the Act.
§ 404.1271
Adjustment of overpayment of contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
General.
If a State pays more than the correct amount of contributions, the State shall adjust the overpayment with the next contribution return filed on which the amount owed equals or exceeds the amount of the overpayment.
(b)
Overpayment due to overreporting of wages
—(1)
Report to file.
If the overpayment is due to the State's reporting more than the correct amount of wages paid to one or more employees during a reporting period and the overpayment is not adjusted under paragraph (a) of this section, the State shall file a report on the appropriate form showing:
(i) The corrected wage data as prescribed by SSA; and
(ii) The reason why the original reporting was incorrect.
(2)
Refund or credit of overpayment where section 218(e)(2) of the Act not applicable.
If:
(i) The State collected contributions from employees in excess of the amount of taxes that would have been required under section 3101 of the Internal Revenue Code; and
(ii) The State paid to the Secretary of the Treasury those contributions plus a matching amount in excess of the taxes which would have been required from an employer under section 3111 of the Code; and
(iii) The services of the employees in question would have constituted employment under section 3121(b) of the Code; and
(iv) Section 218(e)(2) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509 does not apply (see § 404.1256(a)), then the State shall adjust the overpaid contributions under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. With its adjustment the State, where appropriate, shall include on the prescribed form a statement that the employees from whom the excess contributions were collected have not received nor expect to receive a refund of excess contributions under section 6413(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (see § 404.1275(b)). Generally, if the State does not include this statement with its adjustment request, we only refund or credit the State for up to one-half of the overpaid amount.
(c)
Refund or credit of overpayment where section 218(e)(2) of the Act applicable
—(1)
General.
If—
(i) The overreporting of the amount of wages paid to one or more employees during a reporting period(s) is due to a computation of contributions under § 404.1256 for a year or years prior to the year in which the agreement or modification providing for the computation is entered into, or
(ii) The overreporting is due to a failure to compute § 404.1256,
the State shall adjust the overpayment under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. An overpayment due to overreported wages which does not result from the computation of contributions or a failure to compute contributions under § 404.1256 shall also be adjusted by the State under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the adjustment of the overpayment results in an underreporting of wages for any employee by the State or any political subdivision, the State
shall include with the report adjusting the overpayment a report adjusting each underreporting. If the adjustment of the overpayment does not result in an underreporting of wages for any employee by the State or any political subdivision, the State shall include with the report adjusting the overpayment a statement that the adjustment of the overpayment does not result in any underreporting.
(2)
Amount of refund or credit.
If the State collects excess contributions from employees, the State's claim for refund or credit is limited to the overpaid amounts. (See § 404.1275 relating to adjustment of employee contributions.) If—
(i) The State collected the correct amount of contributions from employees based on the amount of wages reported and the Forms W-2 issued to the employees show only the amount of contributions actually collected, but the amount of wages reported is being adjusted downward, or
(ii) The State collects excess contributions from employees but Forms W-2 have not been issued for an amount of wages which is being adjusted downward, the State may claim a refund or credit for the overpaid amounts. Where the State's claim for refund or credit is for the total overpaid amount, the adjustment report shall include a statement that excess contributions have not been collected from employees, or, where excess contributions have been collected, that Forms W-2 have not been issued and that, when issued, they will show the correct amount of employee contributions.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1272
Refund or recomputation of overpayments which are not adjustable—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
General.
If a State pays more than the correct amount of contributions or interest to the appropriate Federal Reserve bank or branch (see § 404.1262), and no adjustment in the amount of reported wages is necessary, that State may file a claim for refund or recomputation of the overpayment.
(b)
Form of claim.
No special form is required to make a claim for a refund or recomputation. If a credit is taken under § 404.1271, a claim is not required.
(c)
Proof of representative capacity.
If a report or return is made by an authorized official of the State who ceases to act in an official capacity and a claim for a refund is made by a successor official, the successor official must submit with the claim written evidence showing that he or she has the authority to make a claim for and receive a refund of any contributions paid by the former official. The written evidence is not necessary if the successor official has previously filed one or more reports or returns which contain her or his signature and official title.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1275
Adjustment of employee contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
The amount of contributions a State deducts from an employee's remuneration for covered services, or any correction of that amount, is a matter between the employee and the State or political subdivision. The State shall show any correction of an employee's contribution on statements it furnishes the employee under § 404.1225 of this part. Where the State issues an employee a Form W-2 and then submits an overpayment adjustment but claims less than the total overpaid amount as a refund or credit, the State shall not correct the previously issued Form W-2 to reflect that adjustment.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 65 FR 16813, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.1276
Reports and payments erroneously made to Internal Revenue Service-transfer of funds—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
General.
In some instances, State or local governmental entities not covered under an agreement make reports and pay contributions to IRS under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) procedures applicable to private employers in the mistaken belief that this provides Social Security coverage under section 218 of the Act for their
employees. In other instances, entities which are covered under an agreement erroneously report to IRS, or a State or local government employee reports other employees to IRS or reports to IRS as a self-employed individual. Where these reports and payments are erroneously made to IRS, the State may correct the error and obtain coverage under its agreement as described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
(b)
Political subdivision not included in the State agreement.
We notify the State that if it desires coverage, it may be provided by either a regular modification or an error modification, depending on the circumstances (§§ 404.1215 and 404.1216). In most cases, the State may obtain coverage by a regular modification. If a regular modification cannot be used (e.g., State law does not permit the retroactive effective date which would be desired), the State may use an error modification. The effective date of either modification depends on the facts of the situation being corrected.
(c)
Political subdivision included in the agreement.
If a political subdivision included in the agreement erroneously makes reports and payments under FICA procedures, the State must correct the reportings for periods not barred by the statute of limitations. If the covered entity reported both under the agreement and under FICA procedures, we notify IRS and make necessary corrections in the earnings records. We also advise the State that the entity which reported under FICA procedures should request a refund of payments erroneously made to IRS.
(d)
State and local government employees erroneously reported as employees of individual or as self-employed
—(1)
Covered entity.
If employees of a covered entity are erroneously reported as employees of an individual or as self-employed, we advise the State that the individual who made the reports should request a refund from IRS for periods not barred by the statute of limitations. We require the State to file correctional reports and returns for any periods open under the State and local statute of limitations.
(2)
Noncovered entity.
We advise the State that the individual who made the reports should request a refund from IRS for the periods not barred by the statute of limitations. If the State wishes to provide coverage, it must submit a modification as discussed in paragraph (b) of this section. If the State does not wish to provide coverage, we void the reports. Amounts reported for periods barred by the statute of limitations remain on the earnings records.
(e)
Filing wage reports and paying contributions.
Generally, the entity or individual that makes the erroneous reports and payments requests the refund from IRS for periods not barred by the statute of limitations. The State files the necessary reports with SSA and pays any contributions due. The reports shall conform to the coverage provided by the agreement to the extent permitted by the statute of limitations. The due date for these reports depends on whether original reports or adjustment reports are involved. Reports and contribution returns for the entire retroactive period of coverage provided by a regular or error modification are due 90 days after the date of execution of the modification. The time limitations for issuing assessments and credits or refunds extend from this due date. Thus, SSA may issue assessments or credits or refunds for periods barred to refund by IRS. The State may request that reports and payments for the IRS barred periods be considered made under the agreement as described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Use of transfer procedure.
In limited situations, the State may request that reports and payments the State or a political subdivision (but not an individual) erroneously made under FICA procedures and which have been posted to the employee's earnings record be considered made under the State's agreement. We use a transfer procedure to do this. The transfer procedure may be used only where
(1) The periods are open to assessment under the State and local statute of limitations;
(2) The erroneous reports to be transferred are posted to SSA's records;
(3) The periods are barred to refund under the IRS statute of limitations; and
(4) A refund is not obtained from IRS by the reporting entity.

# How Overpayments of Contributions Are Credited or Refunded—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1280
Allowance of credits or refunds—for wages paid prior to 1987.
If a State pays more than the amount of contributions due under an agreement, SSA may allow the State, subject to the time limitations in § 404.1282 and the exceptions to the time limitations in § 404.1283, a credit or refund of the overpayment.
§ 404.1281
Credits or refunds for periods of time during which no liability exists—for wages paid prior to 1987.
If a State pays contributions for any period of time for which contributions are not due, but the State is liable for contributions for another period, we credit the amount paid against the amount of contributions for which the State is liable. We refund any balance to the State.
§ 404.1282
Time limitations on credits or refunds—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
General.
To get a credit or refund, a State must file a claim for a credit or refund of the overpaid amount with the Commissioner before the applicable time limitation expires. The State's claim for credit or refund is considered filed with the Commissioner when it is delivered or mailed to the Commissioner. Where the time limitation ends on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, we consider a claim timely filed if it is filed on the next Federal workday.
(b)
Time limitation.
Subject to the exceptions in § 404.1283, a State must file a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment before the end of the latest of the following time periods:
(1) 3 years, 3 months, and 15 days after the year in which the wages in question were paid or alleged to have been paid; or
(2) 3 years after the due date of the payment which included the overpayment; or
(3) 2 years after the overpayment was made to the Secretary of the Treasury.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1283
Exceptions to the time limitations on credits or refunds—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)(1)
Extension by agreement.
The applicable time period described in § 404.1282 for filing a claim for credit for, or refund of, an overpayment may, before the expiration of such period, be extended for no more than 6 months by written agreement between the State and the Commissioner. The agreement must involve and identify a known issue or reporting error. It must also identify the periods involved, the time limitation which is being extended and the date to which it is being extended, and the coverage group(s) and position(s) or individual(s) to which the agreement applies. The extension of the period of limitation shall not become effective until the agreement is signed by the appropriate State official and the Commissioner. (See § 404.3(c) for the applicable rule where periods of limitation expire on nonwork days.) A claim for credit or refund filed by the State before the extended time limit ends shall be considered to have been filed within the time period limitation specified in section 218(r)(1) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509. (See § 404.1282.)
(2)
Reextension.
An extension agreement provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be reextended by written agreement between the State and the Commissioner for no more than 6 months at a time beyond the expiration of the prior extension or reextension agreement, and only if one of the following conditions is met:
(i) Litigation (including intrastate litigation) or a review under §§ 404.1290 or 404.1297 involving wage reports or corrections on the same issue is pending; or
(ii) The State is actively pursuing corrections of a known error which require additional time to complete; or
(iii) The Social Security Administration is developing a coverage or wage issue which was being considered before the statute of limitations expired
and additional time is needed to make a determination; or
(iv) The Social Security Administration has not issued to the State a final audit statement on the State's wage or correction reports; or
(v) There is pending Federal legislation which may substantially affect the issue in question, or the issue has national implications.
(b)
Deletion of wage entry on employee's earnings record.
If the Commissioner, under section 205(c)(5) (A), (B), or (E) of the Act, deletes a wage entry on an individual's earnings record, a claim for credit or refund of the overpayment resulting from the deletion is considered filed within the applicable time limitations in § 404.1282 if
(1) The State files the claim before the Commissioner's decision regarding the deletion of the wage entry from the individual's earnings record becomes final or
(2) The State files a claim regarding the deletion of the wage entry from the individual's earnings record which entry is erroneous because of fraud.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1284
Offsetting underpayments against overpayments—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
State fails to make adjustment for allowance of credit.
If SSA notifies a State that a credit is due the State, and the State does not make the adjustment for the allowance of the credit, SSA offsets the credit against any contributions or interest due. Before making the offset, SSA will give the State an opportunity to make the adjustment.
(b)
State fails to make adjustment for underpayment of contributions or interest due.
If SSA notifies a State that contributions or interest are due, and the State does not pay the contributions or interest, SSA offsets the contributions or interest due against any credit due the State. Before making the offset, SSA will give the State an opportunity to pay the underpayment or interest due.

# How Assessments for Underpayments of Contributions Are Made—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1285
Assessments of amounts due—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a) A State is liable for any amount due (which includes contributions or interest) under an agreement until the Commissioner is satisfied that the amount has been paid to the Secretary of the Treasury. If the Commissioner is not satisfied that a State has paid the amount due, the Commissioner issues an assessment for the amount due subject to the time limitations in § 404.1286 and the exceptions to the time limitations in §§ 404.1287 and 404.1289. If detailed wage information is not available, the assessment is issued based on the following:
(1) The largest number of individuals whose services are known to be covered under the agreement is used for computation purposes;
(2) The individuals are assumed to have maximum creditable earnings each year;
(3) The earnings are considered wages for covered services; and
(4) The amount computed is increased by twenty percent to insure that all covered wages are included in the assessment.
(b) If the State pays the amount assessed and the assessed amount is later determined to be more than the amount actually due, we issue a refund or credit to that State for the excess amount. When the assessment is issued within the applicable time limitation, there is no time limit on collecting the amount due. An assessment is issued on the date that it is mailed or otherwise delivered to the State.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1286
Time limitations on assessments—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a) Subject to the exceptions to the time limitations in §§ 404.1287 and 404.1289, a State is not liable for an amount due under an agreement unless the Commissioner makes an assessment for that amount before the later of the following periods ends:
(1) Three years, 3 months, and 15 days after the year in which the wages, upon which the amount is due, were paid; or
(2) Three years after the date the amount became due.
(b) Where the time limitation ends on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, an assessment is considered timely if the Commissioner makes the assessment on the next Federal workday.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1287
Exceptions to the time limitations on assessments—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)(1)
Extension by agreement.
The applicable time period described in § 404.1286 for assessment of an amount due may, before the expiration of such period, be extended for no more than 6 months by written agreement between the State and the Commissioner. The agreement must involve and identify a known issue or reporting error. It must also identify the periods involved, the time limitation which is being extended and the date to which it is being extended, and the coverage group(s) and position(s) or individual(s) to which the agreement applies. The extension of the period of limitation shall not become effective until the agreement is signed by the appropriate State official and the Commissioner. (See § 404.3(c) for the applicable rule where periods of limitation expire on nonwork days.) An assessment made by the Commissioner before the extended time limit ends shall be considered to have been made within the time period limitation specified in section 218(q)(2) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509. (See § 404.1286.)
(2)
Reextension.
An extension agreement provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be reextended by written agreement between the State and the Commissioner for no more than 6 months at a time beyond the expiration of the prior extension or reextension agreement, and only if one of the following conditions is met:
(i) Litigation (including intrastate litigation) or a review under § 404.1290 or § 404.1297 involving wage reports or corrections on the same issue is pending; or
(ii) The State is actively pursuing corrections of a known error which require additional time to complete; or
(iii) The Social Security Administration is developing a coverage or wage issue which was being considered before the statute of limitations expired and additional time is needed to make a determination; or
(iv) The Social Security Administration has not issued to the State a final audit statement on the State's wage or correction reports; or
(v) There is pending Federal legislation which may substantially affect the issue in question, or the issue has national implications.
(b)
The 365-day period.
If a State files a report before the applicable time limitation in § 404.1286 (or any extension under paragraph (a) of this section) ends and makes no payment or pays less than the correct amount due, the Commissioner may assess the State for the amount due after the applicable time limitation has ended. However, the Commissioner must make the assessment no later than the 365th day after the day the State makes payment to the Secretary of the Treasury. The Commissioner can only make this assessment on the wages paid to the reported individuals for the reported periods. The Commissioner, in making this assessment, credits the amount paid by the State on these individuals' wages for those reported periods.
(c)
Revision of employee's earnings record.
If, under section 205(c)(5) (A) or (B) of the Act, the Commissioner credits wages to an individual's earnings record, the Commissioner may make an assessment for any amount due on those wages before the Commissioner's decision on revising the individual's earnings record becomes final. (Sections 404.822(c) (1) and (2) describe the time limits for revising an earnings record where an individual has applied for monthly benefits or a lump-sum death payment or requested that we correct his earnings record.)
(d)
Overpayment of contributions on wages of employee having other wages in a period barred to assessment.
If the Commissioner allows a State a credit or refund of an overpayment for wages paid or alleged to have been paid an individual in a calendar year but the
facts upon which the allowance is based establish that contributions are due on other wages paid that individual in that year which are barred to assessment, we may make an assessment notwithstanding the periods of limitation in § 404.1286. The assessment, however, must be made before or at the time we notify the State of the allowance of the credit or refund. In this situation, the Commissioner reduces the amount of the State's credit or refund by the assessed amount and notifies the State accordingly. For purposes of this paragraph, the assessment shall only include contributions and not interest as provided for in section 218(j) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509.

# Example:
The State files an adjustment report timely to correct an error in the amount reported as wages for an employee. The correction reduces the employee's wages for the year to less than the maximum amount creditable. The employee has other earnings in the same year which were not reported because of the previously reported maximum amounts. The applicable time limitation for assessing contributions on wages for the year has expired before the credit was allowed. The Commissioner may assess for the underpaid contributions but no later than the date of the notice to the State that its claim for a credit had been allowed.
(e)
Evasion of payment.
The Commissioner may make an assessment of an amount due at any time where the State's failure to pay the amount due results from the fraudulent attempt of an officer or employee of the State or political subdivision to defeat or evade payment of that amount.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1289
Payment after expiration of time limitation for assessment—for wages paid prior to 1987.
The Commissioner accepts wage reports filed by a State even though the applicable time limitation described in § 404.1286 (or as the time limitation is extended under § 404.1287) has expired, provided:
(a) The State pays to the Secretary of the Treasury the amount due on the wages paid to employees performing services in the coverage group in the calendar years for which the wage reports are being made; and
(b) The State agrees in writing with the Secretary to extend the time limitation for all employees in the coverage group in the calendar years for which the wage reports are being made.
In this situation, the time period for assessment is extended until the Commissioner notifies the State that the wage reports are accepted. Where the State pays the amount due within the time period as extended under this section, the amount shall not include interest as provided for in section 218(j) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]

# Secretary's Review of Decisions on Credits, Refunds, or Assessments—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1290
Review of decisions by the Secretary—for wages paid prior to 1987.
What decisions will be reviewed.
A State, under section 218(s) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509, may request review of an assessment of an amount due from the State, an allowance to the State of a credit or refund of an overpayment, or a disallowance of the State's claim for credit or refund of an overpayment. The Commissioner may review regardless of whether the amount assessed has been paid or whether the credit or refund has been accepted by the State. Prior to the Commissioner's review, however, an assessment, allowance or disallowance may be reconsidered under §§ 404.1291 through 404.1293.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1291
Reconsideration—for wages paid prior to 1987.
After the State requests review of the assessment or allowance or disallowance of a credit or refund, and prior to the Commissioner's review, that decision may be reconsidered, and affirmed, modified, or reversed. We notify the State of the reconsidered determination and the basis for it. The State may request the Commissioner to review this reconsidered determination under § 404.1294(b). In limited situations, SSA and the State may agree
that the reconsideration process should be waived, e.g., where major policy is at issue.
§ 404.1292
How to request review—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Form of request.
No particular form of request is required. However, a written request for review must:
(1) Identify the assessment, allowance or disallowance being questioned;
(2) Describe the specific issue on which the review is requested;
(3) Contain any additional information or argument relevant to that issue; and
(4) Be signed by an official authorized to request the review on behalf of the State.
(b)
Submitting additional material.
A State has 90 days from the date it requests review to submit additional evidence it wishes considered during the review process. The time limit for submitting additional evidence may be extended upon written request of the State and for good cause shown.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0960-0425)
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]
§ 404.1293
Time for filing request for review—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Time for filing.
The State must file its request for review within 90 days after the date of the notice of assessment, allowance, or disallowance. Usually, the date of the request for review is considered the filing date. Where the 90-day period ends on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, a request filed on the next Federal workday is considered as timely filed.
(b)
Extension of time.
For good cause shown, and upon written application by a State filed prior to the expiration of the time for filing a request for review, additional time for filing the request may be allowed.
§ 404.1294
Notification to State after reconsideration—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a) The State will be notified in writing of the reconsidered determination on the assessment, allowance, or disallowance, and the basis for the determination.
(b) If the State does not agree with the reconsidered determination, it has 90 days from the date of notice of the reconsidered determination to request the Commissioner to review that determination. The rules on what the request should contain and the time for filing the request are the same as in §§ 404.1292 and 404.1293.
§ 404.1295
Commissioner's review—for wages paid prior to 1987.
Upon request by the State, the Commissioner will review the reconsidered determination (or the assessment, allowance or disallowance as initially issued if reconsideration is waived under § 404.1291). If necessary, the Commissioner may request the State to furnish additional evidence. Based upon the evidence considered in connection with the assessment, allowance or disallowance and any additional evidence submitted by the State or otherwise obtained by the Commissioner, the Commissioner affirms, modifies, or reverses the assessment, allowance or disallowance.
§ 404.1296
Commissioner's notification to the State—for wages paid prior to 1987.
The Commissioner notifies the State in writing of the decision on the assessment, allowance, or disallowance, and the basis for the decision.

# How a State May Seek Court Review of Commissioner's Decision—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
§ 404.1297
Review by court—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Who can file civil action in court.
A State may file a civil action under section 218(t) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509 requesting a district court of the United States to review any decision the Commissioner makes under section 218(s) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509 concerning the assessment of an amount due, the allowance of a credit or refund, or the disallowance of a claim for credit or refund.
(b)
Where the civil action must be filed.
A State must file the civil action in
the district court of the United States for the judicial district in which the State's capital is located. If the civil action is brought by an interstate instrumentality, it must file the civil action in the district court of the United States for the judicial district in which the instrumentality's principal office is located. The district court's judgment is final except that it is subject to review in the same manner as judgments of the court in other civil actions.
(c)
No interest on credit or refund of overpayment.
SSA has no authority to pay interest to a State after final judgment of a court involving a credit or refund of an overpayment made under section 218 of the Act.
[53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.1298
Time for filing civil action—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Time for filing.
The State must file the civil action for a redetermination of the correctness of the assessment, allowance or disallowance within 2 years from the date the Commissioner mails to the State the notice of the decision under § 404.1296. Where the 2-year period ends on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or Federal nonwork day, an action filed on the next Federal workday is considered timely filed.
(b)
Extension of time for filing.
The Commissioner, for good cause shown, may upon written application by a State filed prior to the end of the two-year period, extend the time for filing the civil action.
§ 404.1299
Final judgments—for wages paid prior to 1987.
(a)
Overpayments.
Payment of amounts due to a State required as the result of a final judgment of the court shall be adjusted under §§ 404.1271 and 404.1272.
(b)
Underpayments.
Wage reports and contribution returns required as the result of a final judgment of the court shall be filed under §§ 404.1237-404.1251. We will assess interest under § 404.1265 where, based upon a final judgment of the court, contributions are due from a State because the amount of contributions assessed was not paid by the State or the State had used an allowance of a credit or refund of an overpayment.

# Subpart N—Wage Credits for Veterans and Members of the Uniformed Services

# Authority:
Secs. 205 (a) and (p), 210 (l) and (m), 215(h), 217, 229, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405 (a) and (p), 410 (l) and (m), 415(h), 417, 429, and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
45 FR 16464, Mar. 14, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 404.1301
Introduction.
(a) The Social Security Act (Act), under section 217, provides for noncontributory wage credits to veterans who served in the active military or naval service of the United States from September 16, 1940, through December 31, 1956. These individuals are considered World War II or post-World War II veterans. The Act also provides for noncontributory wage credits to certain individuals who served in the active military or naval service of an allied country during World War II. These individuals are considered World War II veterans. In addition, certain individuals get wage credits, under section 229 of the Act, for service as members of the uniformed services on active duty or active duty for training beginning in 1957 when that service was first covered for social security purposes on a contributory basis through 2001. These individuals are considered members of the uniformed services.
(b) World War II or post-World War II veterans receive wage credits based on the length of active military or naval service, type of separation from service and, in some cases, whether the veteran is receiving another Federal benefit. However, a member of a uniformed service receives wage credits regardless of length of service, type of separation, or receipt of another Federal benefit.
(c) The Social Security Administration (SSA) uses these wage credits, along with any covered wages or self-employment income of the veteran or member of a uniformed service, to determine entitlement to, and the amount of, benefits and the lump-sum death payment that may be paid to
them, their dependents or survivors under the old-age, survivors', and disability insurance programs. These wage credits can also be used by the veteran or member of the uniformed service to meet the insured status and quarters of coverage requirements for a period of disability.
(d) This subpart tells how veterans or members of the uniformed services obtain wage credits, what evidence of service SSA requires, how SSA uses the wage credits, and how the wage credits are affected by payment of other benefits.
(e) This subpart explains that certain World War II veterans who die are considered (deemed) fully insured. This gives those veterans' survivors the same benefit rights as if the veterans were actually fully insured when they died.
(f) The rules are organized in the following manner:
(1) Sections 404.1310 through 404.1313 contain the rules on World War II veterans. We discuss who may qualify as a World War II veteran, how we determine whether the 90-day active service requirement for a World War II veteran is met, what we consider to be World War II active military or naval service, and what we do not consider to be World War II active military or naval service.
(2) Sections 404.1320 through 404.1323 contain the rules on post-World War II veterans. We discuss who may qualify as a post-World War II veteran, how we determine whether the 90-day active service requirement for a post-World War II veteran is met, what we consider to be post-World War II active military or naval service, and what we do not consider to be post-World War II active military or naval service.
(3) In § 404.1325 we discuss what is a
separation under conditions other than dishonorable.
The law requires that a World War II or post-World War II veteran's separation from active military or naval service be other than dishonorable for the veteran to get wage credits.
(4) Section 404.1330 contains the rules on members of the uniformed services. We discuss who may qualify as a member of a uniformed service.
(5) In §§ 404.1340 through 404.1343, we discuss the amount of wage credits for veterans and members of the uniformed services, situations which may limit the use of wage credits for World War II and post-World War II veterans, and situations in which the limits do not apply.
(6) Sections 404.1350 through 404.1352 contain the rules on deemed insured status for World War II veterans. We discuss when deemed insured status applies, the amount of wage credits used for deemed insured World War II veterans, how the wage credits affect survivors' social security benefits, and when deemed insured status does not apply.
(7) Sections 404.1360 through 404.1363 contain the rules on the effect of other benefits on the payment of social security benefits and lump-sum death payments based on wage credits for veterans. We discuss what happens when we learn of a determination that a Veterans Administration pension or compensation is payable or that a Federal benefit is payable before or after we determine entitlement to a monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on the death of the veteran.
(8) Sections 404.1370 and 404.1371 contain the rules on what we accept as evidence of a World War II and post-World War II veteran's active military or naval service, including date and type of separation, and what we accept as evidence of entitlement to wage credits for membership in a uniformed service during the years 1957 through 1967.
[45 FR 16464, Mar. 14, 1980, as amended at 70 FR 11865, Mar. 10, 2005]
§ 404.1302
Definitions.
As used in this subpart—
Act
means the Social Security Act, as amended.
Active duty
means periods of time an individual is on full-time duty in the active military or naval service after 1956 and includes active duty for training after 1956.
Active service
means periods of time prior to 1957 an individual was on full-time duty in the active military or naval service. It does not include totaling periods of active duty for training purposes before 1957 which are less than 90 days.
Allied country
means a country at war on September 16, 1940, with a country with which the United States was at war during the World War II period. Each of the following countries is considered an allied country: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, India, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Union of South Africa, and the United Kingdom.
Domiciled in the United States
means an individual has a true, fixed, and permanent home in the United States to which the individual intends to return whenever he or she is absent.
Federal benefit
means a benefit which is payable by another Federal agency (other than the Veterans Administration) or an instrumentality owned entirely by the United States under any law of the United States or under a program or pension system set up by the agency or instrumentality.
Post-World War II period
means the time period July 25, 1947, through December 31, 1956.
Reserve component
means Army Reserve, Naval Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, Air Force Reserve, Coast Guard Reserve, National Guard of the United States or Air National Guard of the United States.
Resided in the United States
means an individual had a place where he or she lived, whether permanently or temporarily, in the United States and was bodily present in that place.
Survivor
means you are a parent, widow, divorced wife, widower, or child of a deceased veteran or member of a uniformed service.
United States
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa.
Veteran
means an individual who served in the active military or naval service of the United States and was discharged or released from that service under conditions other than dishonorable. For a more detailed definition of the World War II veteran and a post-World War II veteran, see §§ 404.1310 and 404.1320.
Wage credit
means a dollar amount we add to the earnings record of a veteran of the World War II or the post-World War II period. It is also a dollar amount we add to the earnings record of a member of a uniformed service who was on active duty from 1957 through 2001. The amount is set out in the Act and is added for each month, calendar quarter, or calendar year of service as required by law.
We, us,
or
our
means the Social Security Administration.
World War II period
means the time period September 16, 1940, through July 24, 1947.
You
or
your
means a veteran, a veteran's survivor or a member of a uniformed service applying for or entitled to a social security benefit or a lump-sum death payment.
[45 FR 16464, Mar. 14, 1980, as amended at 70 FR 11865, Mar. 10, 2005]

# World War II Veterans
§ 404.1310
Who is a World War II veteran.
You are a World War II veteran if you were in the active service of the United States during the World War II period and, if no longer in active service, you were separated from that service under conditions other than dishonorable after at least 90 days of active service. The 90-day active service requirement is discussed in § 404.1311.
§ 404.1311
Ninety-day active service requirement for World War II veterans.
(a) The 90 days of active service required for World War II veterans do not have to be consecutive if the 90 days were in the World War II period. The 90-day requirement cannot be met by totaling the periods of active duty for training purposes which were less than 90 days.
(b) If, however, all of the 90 days of active service required for World War II veterans were not in the World War II period, the 90 days must (only in those circumstances) be consecutive if the 90 days began before September 16, 1940, and ended on or after that date, or began before July 25, 1947, and ended on or after that date.
(c) The 90 days of active service is not required if the World War II veteran died in service or was separated from service under conditions other
than dishonorable because of a disability or injury which began or worsened while performing service duties.
§ 404.1312
World War II service included.
Your service was in the active service of the United States during the World War II period if you were in the—
(a) Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard, or any part of them;
(b) Commissioned corps of the United States Public Health Service and were—
(1) On active commissioned service during the period beginning September 16, 1940, through July 28, 1945, and the active service was done while on detail to the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard; or
(2) On active commissioned service during the period beginning July 29, 1945, through July 24, 1947, regardless of whether on detail to the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard;
(c) Commissioned corps of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey and were—
(1) During the World War II period—
(i) Transferred to active service with the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard; or
(ii) Assigned to active service on military projects in areas determined by the Secretary of Defense to be areas of immediate military hazard; or
(2) On active service in the Philippine Islands on December 7, 1941; or
(3) On active service during the period beginning July 29, 1945, through July 24, 1947;
(d) Philippine Scouts and performed active service during the World War II period under the direct supervision of recognized military authority;
(e) Active service of an allied country during the World War II period and—
(1) Had entered into that active service before December 9, 1941;
(2) Were a citizen of the United States throughout that period of active service or lost your United States citizenship solely because of your entrance into that service;
(3) Had resided in the United States for a total of four years during the five-year period ending on the day you entered that active service; and
(4) Were domiciled in the United States on that day; or
(f) Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, during the period May 14, 1942, through September 29, 1943, and performed active service with the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard after September 29, 1943.
§ 404.1313
World War II service excluded.
Your service was not in the active service of the United States during the World War II period if, for example, you were in the—
(a) Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, except as described in § 404.1312(f);
(b) Coast Guard Auxiliary;
(c) Coast Guard Reserve (Temporary) unless you served on active full-time service with military pay and allowances;
(d) Civil Air Patrol; or
(e) Civilian Auxiliary to the Military Police.

# Post-World War II Veterans
§ 404.1320
Who is a post-World War II veteran.
You are a post-World War II veteran if you were in the active service of the United States during the post-World War II period and, if no longer in active service, you were separated from the service under conditions other than dishonorable after at least 90 days of active service. The 90-day active service requirement is discussed in § 404.1321.
§ 404.1321
Ninety-day active service requirement for post-World War II veterans.
(a) The 90 days of active service required for post-World War II veterans do not have to be consecutive if the 90 days were in the post-World War II period. The 90-day requirement cannot be met by totaling the periods of active duty for training purposes before 1957 which were less than 90 days.
(b) If, however, all of the 90 days of active service required for post-World War II veterans were not in the post-World War II period, the 90 days must (only in those circumstances) be consecutive if the 90 days began before July 25, 1947, and ended on or after that
date, or began before January 1, 1957, and ended on or after that date.
(c) The 90 days of active service is not required if the post-World War II veteran died in service or was separated from service under conditions other than dishonorable because of a disability or injury which began or worsened while performing service duties.
§ 404.1322
Post-World War II service included.
Your service was in the active service of the United States during the post-World War II period if you were in the—
(a) Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, or any part of them;
(b) Commissioned corps of the United States Public Health Service and were on active service during that period;
(c) Commissioned corps of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey and were on active service during that period; or
(d) Philippine Scouts and performed active service during the post-World War II period under the direct supervision of recognized military authority.
§ 404.1323
Post-World War II service excluded.
Your service was not in the active service of the United States during the post-World War II period if, for example, you were in the—
(a) Coast Guard Auxiliary;
(b) Coast Guard Reserve (Temporary) unless you served on active full-time service with military pay and allowances;
(c) Civil Air Patrol; or
(d) Civilian Auxiliary to the Military Police.

# Separation from Active Service
§ 404.1325
Separation from active service under conditions other than dishonorable.
Separation from active service under conditions other than dishonorable means any discharge or release from the active service except—
(a) A discharge or release for desertion, absence without leave, or fraudulent entry;
(b) A dishonorable or bad conduct discharge issued by a general court martial of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard of the United States, or by the active service of an allied country during the World War II period;
(c) A dishonorable discharge issued by the United States Public Health Service or the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey;
(d) A resignation by an officer for the good of the service;
(e) A discharge or release because the individual was a conscientious objector; or
(f) A discharge or release because the individual was convicted by a civil court for treason, sabotage, espionage, murder, rape, arson, burglary, robbery, kidnapping, assault with intent to kill, assault with a deadly weapon, or because of an attempt to commit any of these crimes.
[45 FR 16464, Mar. 14, 1980; 45 FR 22023, Apr. 3, 1980]

# Members of the Uniformed Services
§ 404.1330
Who is a member of a uniformed service.
A member of a uniformed service is an individual who served on active duty after 1956. You are a member of a uniformed service if you—
(a) Are appointed, enlisted, or inducted into—
(1) The Air Force, Army, Navy, Coast Guard, or Marine Corps; or
(2) A reserve component of the uniformed services in paragraph (a)(1) of this section (except the Coast Guard Reserve as a temporary member);
(b) Served in the Army or Air Force under call or conscription;
(c) Are a commissioned officer of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or its predecessors, the Environmental Science Services Administration and the Coast and Geodetic Survey;
(d) Are a commissioned officer of the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service;
(e) Are a retired member of any of the above services;
(f) Are a member of the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve;
(g) Are a cadet at the United States Military Academy, Air Force Academy, or Coast Guard Academy, or a midshipman at the United States Naval Academy; or
(h) Are a member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps of the Army, Navy or Air Force, when ordered to annual training duty for at least 14 days and while performing official travel to and from that duty.

# Amounts of Wage Credits and Limits on Their Use
§ 404.1340
Wage credits for World War II and post-World War II veterans.
In determining your entitlement to, and the amount of, your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on your active service during the World War II period or the post-World War II period, and for establishing a period of disability as discussed in §§ 404.132 and 404.133, we add the (deemed) amount of $160 for each month during a part of which you were in the active service as described in § 404.1312 or § 404.1322. For example, if you were in active service from October 11, 1942, through August 10, 1943, we add the (deemed) amount of $160 for October 1942 and August 1943 as well as November 1942 through July 1943. The amount of wage credits that are added in a calendar year cannot cause the total amount credited to your earnings record to exceed the annual earnings limitation explained in §§ 404.1047 and 404.1096(b).
§ 404.1341
Wage credits for a member of a uniformed service.
(a)
General.
In determining your entitlement to, and the amount of your monthly benefit (or lump sum death payment) based on your wages while on active duty as a member of the uniformed service from 1957 through 2001, and for establishing a period of disability as discussed in § 404.132, we add wage credits to the wages paid you as a member of that service. The amount of the wage credits, the applicable time periods, the wage credit amount limits, and the requirement of a minimum period of active duty service for granting these wage credits, are discussed in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(b)
Amount of wage credits.
The amount of wage credits added is—
(1) $100 for each $300 in wages paid to you for your service in each calendar year from 1978 through 2001; and
(2) $300 for each calendar quarter in 1957 through 1977, regardless of the amount of wages actually paid you during that quarter for your service.
(c)
Limits on wage credits.
The amount of these wage credits cannot exceed—
(1) $1200 for any calendar year, or
(2) An amount which when added to other earnings causes the total earnings for the year to exceed the annual earnings limitation explained in §§ 404.1047 and 404.1096(b).
(d)
Minimum active-duty service requirement.
(1) If you enlisted for the first time in a regular component of the Armed Forces on or after September 8, 1980, you must complete the shorter of 24 months of continuous active duty or the full period that you were called to active duty to receive these wage credits, unless:
(i) You are discharged or released from active duty for the convenience of the government in accordance with section 1171 of title 10 U.S.C. or because of hardship as specified in section 1173 of title 10 U.S.C.;
(ii) You are discharged or released from active duty for a disability incurred or aggravated in line of duty;
(iii) You are entitled to compensation for service-connected disability or death under chapter 11 of title 38 U.S.C.;
(iv) You die during your period of enlistment; or
(v) You were discharged prior to October 14, 1982, and your discharge was—
(A) Under chapter 61 of title 10 U.S.C.; or
(B) Because of a disability which resulted from an injury or disease incurred in or aggravated during your enlistment which was not the result of your intentional misconduct and did not occur during a period of unauthorized absence.
(2) If you entered on active duty as a member of the uniformed services as defined in § 404.1330
on or after
October 14, 1982, having neither previously completed a period of 24 months' active duty nor been discharged or released from this period of active duty under
section 1171, title 10 U.S.C. (
i.e.
, convenience of the government), you must complete the shorter of 24 months of continuous active duty or the full period you were called or ordered to active duty to receive these wage credits, unless:
(i) You are discharged or released from active duty for the convenience of the government in accordance with section 1171 of title 10 U.S.C. or because of hardship as specified in section 1173 of title 10 U.S.C.;
(ii) You are discharged or released from active duty for a disability incurred or aggravated in line of duty;
(iii) You are entitled to compensation for service-connected disability or death under chapter 11 of title 38 U.S.C.; or
(iv) You die during your period of active service.
[45 FR 16464, Mar. 14, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 29663, Aug. 11, 1987; 70 FR 11865, Mar. 10, 2005]
§ 404.1342
Limits on granting World War II and post-World War II wage credits.
(a) You get wage credits for World War II or post-World War II active service only if the use of the wage credits results in entitlement to a monthly benefit, a higher monthly benefit, or a lump-sum death payment.
(b) You may get wage credits for active service in July 1947 for either the World War II period or the post-World War II period but not for both. If your active service is before and on or after July 25, 1947, we add the $160 wage credit to the period which is most advantageous to you.
(c) You do not get wage credits for the World War II period if another Federal benefit (other than one payable by the Veterans Administration) is determined by a Federal agency or an instrumentality owned entirely by the United States to be payable to you, even though the Federal benefit is not actually paid or is paid and then terminated, based in part on your active service during the World War II period except as explained in § 404.1343.
(d) You do not get wage credits for the post-World War II period if another Federal benefit (other than one payable by the Veterans Administration) is determined by a Federal agency or an instrumentality owned entirely by the United States to be payable to you, even though the Federal benefit is not actually paid or is paid and then terminated, based in part on your active service during the post-World War II period except as explained in § 404.1343.
§ 404.1343
When the limits on granting World War II and post-World War II wage credits do not apply.
The limits on granting wage credits described in § 404.1342 (c) and (d) do not apply—
(a) If the wage credits are used solely to meet the insured status and quarters of coverage requirements for a period of disability as described in §§ 404.132 and 404.133;
(b) If you are the surviving spouse or child of a veteran of the World War II period or post-World War II period and you are entitled under the Civil Service Retirement Act of 1930 to a survivor's annuity based on the veteran's active service and—
(1) You give up your right to receive the survivor's annuity;
(2) A benefit under the Civil Service Retirement Act of 1930 based on the veteran's active service was not payable to the veteran; and
(3) Another Federal benefit is not payable to the veteran or his or her survivors except as described in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(c) For the years 1951 through 1956, if another Federal benefit is payable by the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Coast and Geodetic Survey, or the Public Health Service based on post-World War II active service but only if the veteran was also paid wages as a member of a uniformed service after 1956.
[45 FR 16464, Mar. 14, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 24118, June 12, 1984]

# Deemed Insured Status for World II Veterans
§ 404.1350
Deemed insured status.
(a)
When deemed insured status applies.
If you are the survivor of a World War II veteran, we consider the veteran to have died fully insured as discussed in § 404.111 and we include wage credits in
determining your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment if—
(1) The veteran was separated from active service of the United States before July 27, 1951; and
(2) The veteran died within 3 years after separation from active service and before July 27, 1954.
(b)
Amount of credit given for deemed insured World War II veterans.
(1) When we compute a survivor's benefit or lump-sum death payment, we give credit for—
(i) $200 (for increment year purposes) for each calendar year in which the veteran had at least 30 days of active service beginning September 16, 1940, through 1950; and
(ii) An average monthly wage of $160.
(2) If the World War II veteran was fully or currently insured without the wage credits, we add increment years (years after 1936 and prior to 1951 in which the veteran had at least $200 in creditable earnings) to the increment years based on the veteran's wages.
§ 404.1351
When deemed insured status does not apply.
As a survivor of a World War II veteran, you cannot get a monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on the veteran's deemed insured status as explained in § 404.1350 if—
(a) Your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment is larger without using the wage credits;
(b) The Veterans Administration has determined that a pension or compensation is payable to you based on the veteran's death;
(c) The veteran died while in the active service of the United States;
(d) The veteran was first separated from active service after July 26, 1951;
(e) The veteran died after July 26, 1954; or
(f) The veteran's only service during the World War II period was by enlistment in the Philippine Scouts as authorized by the Armed Forces Voluntary Recruitment Act of 1945 (Pub. L. 190 of the 79th Congress).
§ 404.1352
Benefits and payments based on deemed insured status.
(a)
Our determination.
We determine your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment under the deemed insured status provisions in §§ 404.1350 and 404.1351 regardless of whether the Veterans Administration has determined that any pension or compensation is payable to you.
(b)
Certification for payment.
If we determine that you can be paid a monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment, we certify these benefits for payment. However, the amount of your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment may be changed if we are informed by the Veterans Administration that a pension or compensation is payable because of the veteran's death as explained in § 404.1360.
(c)
Payments not considered as pension or compensation.
We do not consider as pension or compensation—
(1) National Service Life Insurance payments;
(2) United States Government Life Insurance payments; or
(3) Burial allowance payments made by the Veterans Administration.

# Effect of Other Benefits on Payment of Social Security Benefits and Payments
§ 404.1360
Veterans Administration pension or compensation payable.
(a)
Before we determine and certify payment.
If we are informed by the Veterans Administration that a pension or compensation is payable to you before we determine and certify payment of benefits based on deemed insured status, we compute your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on the death of the World War II veteran without using the wage credits discussed in § 404.1350.
(b)
After we determine and certify payment.
If we are informed by the Veterans Administration that a pension or compensation is payable to you after we determine and certify payment of benefits based on deemed insured status, we—
(1) Stop payment of your benefits or recompute the amount of any further benefits that can be paid to you; and
(2) Determine whether you were erroneously paid and the amount of any erroneous payment.
§ 404.1361
Federal benefit payable other than by Veterans Administration.
(a)
Before we determine and certify payment.
If we are informed by another Federal agency or instrumentality of the United States (other than the Veterans Administration) that a Federal benefit is payable to you by that agency or instrumentality based on the veteran's World War II or post-World War II active service before we determine and certify your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment, we compute your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment without using the wage credits discussed in § 404.1340.
(b)
After we determine and certify payment.
If we are informed by another Federal agency or instrumentality of the United States (other than the Veterans Administration) that a Federal benefit is payable to you by that agency or instrumentality based on the veteran's World War II or post-World War II active service after we determine and certify payment, we—
(1) Stop payment of your benefits or recompute the amount of any further benefits that can be paid to you; and
(2) Determine whether you were erroneously paid and the amount of any erroneous payment.
§ 404.1362
Treatment of social security benefits or payments where Veterans Administration pension or compensation payable.
(a)
Before we receive notice from the Veterans Administration.
If we certify your monthly benefit or a lump-sum death payment as determined under the deemed insured status provisions in § 404.1350 before we receive notice from the Veterans Administration that a pension or compensation is payable to you, our payments to you are erroneous only to the extent that they exceed the amount of the accrued pension of compensation payable.
(b)
After we receive notice from the Veterans Administration.
If we certify your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment as determined under the deemed insured status provisions in § 404.1350 after we receive notice from the Veterans Administration that a pension or compensation is payable to you, our payments to you are erroneous whether or not they exceed the amount of the accrued pension or compensation payable.
§ 404.1363
Treatment of social security benefits or payments where Federal benefit payable other than by Veterans Administration.
If we certify your monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on World War II or post-World War II wage credits after we receive notice from another Federal agency or instrumentality of the United States (other than the Veterans Administration) that a Federal benefit is payable to you by that agency or instrumentality based on the veteran's World War II or post-World War II active service, our payments to you are erroneous to the extent the payments are based on the World War II or post-World War II wage credits. The payments are erroneous beginning with the first month you are eligible for the Federal benefit.

# Evidence of Active Service and Membership in a Uniformed Service
§ 404.1370
Evidence of active service and separation from active service.
(a)
General.
When you file an application for a monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on the active service of a World War II or post-World War II veteran, you must submit evidence of—
(1) Your entitlement as required by subpart H of this part or other evidence that may be expressly required;
(2) The veteran's period in active service of the United States; and
(3) The veteran's type of separation from active service of the United States.
(b)
Evidence we accept.
We accept as proof of a veteran's active service and separation from active service—
(1) An original certificate of discharge, or an original certificate of service, from the appropriate military service, from the United States Public Health Service, or from the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey;
(2) A certified copy of the original certificate of discharge or service made by the State, county, city agency or department in which the original certificate is recorded;
(3) A certification from the appropriate military service, United States Public Health Service, or United States Coast and Geodetic Survey showing the veteran's period of active service and type of separation;
(4) A certification from a local selective service board showing the veteran's period of active service and type of separation; or
(5) Other evidence that proves the veteran's period of active service and type of separation.
§ 404.1371
Evidence of membership in a uniformed service during the years 1957 through 1967.
(a)
General.
When you file an application for a monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on the services of a member of a uniformed service during the years 1957 through 1967, you should submit evidence identifying the member's uniformed service and showing the period(s) he or she was on active duty during those years.
(b)
Evidence we accept.
The evidence we will accept includes any official correspondence showing the member's status as an active service member during the appropriate period, a certification of service by the uniformed service, official earnings statements, copies of the member's Form W-2, and military orders, for the appropriate period.

# Subpart O—Interrelationship of Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance Program With the Railroad Retirement Program

# Authority:
Secs. 202(l), 205(a), (c)(5)(D), (i), and (o), 210 (a)(9) and (l)(4), 211(c)(3), and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402(l), 405(a), (c)(5)(D), (i), and (o), 410 (a)(9) and (l)(4), 411(c)(3), and 902(a)(5)).

# Cross Reference:
For regulations under the Railroad Retirement Act, see chapter II of this title.
§ 404.1401
What is the interrelationship between the Railroad Retirement Act and the Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance Program of the Social Security Act?
(a)
Background.
The Railroad Retirement Act provides a system of benefits for railroad employees, their dependents and survivors, and is integrated with the Social Security Act to provide a coordinated system of retirement, survivor, dependent and disability benefits payable on the basis of an individual's work in the railroad industry and in employment and self-employment covered by the Social Security Act. With respect to the coordination between the two programs, the Railroad Retirement Act distinguishes between “career” or “vested” railroad workers and those individuals who may be considered “casual” or “non-vested” railroad workers based on the total amount of railroad service credited to the worker, as explained in paragraph (b) of this section. The Railroad Retirement Board transfers to the Social Security Administration (SSA) the compensation records of workers who at the time of retirement, onset of disability or death, are non-vested and meet certain other requirements. Any compensation paid to non-vested workers for service after 1936 becomes wages under the Social Security Act (to the extent they do not exceed the annual wage limitations described in § 404.1047). Any benefits payable to non-vested workers, their dependents, and their survivors, are computed on the basis of the combined compensation and social security covered earnings creditable to the workers' records. Once a railroad worker meets the vesting requirements, the record of the worker's railroad service and compensation generally may not be used for benefit purposes under the Social Security Act, but under certain circumstances may be transferred after the worker's death to SSA for use in determining social security benefit entitlement for the railroad worker's survivors (
see
§ 404.1407). Under certain circumstances (
see
§ 404.1413), certification of benefits payable under the provisions of the Social Security Act will be made to the Railroad Retirement Board. The Railroad Retirement Board will certify such benefits to the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b)
Who is a vested railroad worker?
You are a vested railroad worker if you have:
(1) Ten years or more of service in the railroad industry, or
(2) Effective January 1, 2002, you have at least 5 years of service in the railroad industry, all of which accrue after December 31, 1995.
(c)
Definition of years of service.
As used in paragraph (b) of this section, the term
years of service
has the same meaning as assigned to it by section 1(f) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, as amended, (45 U.S.C. 231(f)).
[69 FR 5692, Feb. 6, 2004]
§ 404.1402
When are railroad industry services by a non-vested worker covered under Social Security?
If you are a non-vested worker, we (the Social Security Administration) will consider your services in the railroad industry to be “employment” as defined in section 210 of the Social Security Act for the following purposes:
(a) To determine entitlement to, or the amount of, any monthly benefits or lump-sum death payment on the basis of your wages and self-employment income;
(b) To determine entitlement to, or the amount of, any survivor monthly benefit or any lump-sum death payment on the basis of your wages and self-employment income provided you did not have a “current connection” with the railroad industry, as defined in section 1(o) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, as amended, (45 U.S.C. 231(o)), at the time of your death; (in such cases, survivor benefits are not payable under the Railroad Retirement Act);
(c) To determine entitlement to a period of disability (
see
subpart B of this part) on the basis of your wages and self-employment income; or
(d) To apply the provisions of section 203 of the Social Security Act concerning deductions from benefits under the annual earnings test (
see
subpart E of this part).
[69 FR 5693, Feb. 6, 2004]
§ 404.1404
Effective date of coverage of railroad services under the act.
Coverage under the act of services performed after 1936 by an individual in the railroad industry is effective as follows:
(a) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 404.1402 insofar as they relate to survivor monthly benefits are effective for months after December 1946 and insofar as they relate to lump-sum death payments are effective with respect to deaths after 1946;
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of § 404.1402 insofar as they relate to old-age insurance benefits or monthly benefits of dependents of old-age insurance beneficiaries are effective November 1, 1951; insofar as they relate to disability insurance benefits are effective for months after June 1957; and insofar as they relate to monthly benefits for dependents of disability insurance beneficiaries are effective for months after August 1958;
(c) The provisions of paragraph (c) of § 404.1402 are effective for benefits for months after June 1955; and
(d) The provisions of paragraph (d) of § 404.1402 are effective November 1, 1951.
[25 FR 5182, June 10, 1960]
§ 404.1405
If you have been considered a non-vested worker, what are the situations when your railroad industry work will not be covered under Social Security?
(a)
Awards by the Railroad Retirement Board prior to October 30, 1951.
The provisions of § 404.1402(a) shall not apply with respect to the wages and self-employment income of an individual if, prior to October 30, 1951, the Railroad Retirement Board has awarded under the Railroad Retirement Act a retirement annuity to such individual or a survivor annuity with respect to the death of such individual and such retirement or survivor annuity, as the case may be, was payable at the time an application for benefits is filed under the Social Security Act on the basis of the wages and self-employment income of such individual. A pension payable under section 6 of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 as in effect prior to the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, or an annuity paid in a lump sum equal to its commuted value under section 3(i) of the Railroad Retirement Act in effect prior to the Social Security Act of October 30, 1951, is not a “retirement or survivor annuity” for the purpose of this paragraph.
(b)
You continue to work in the railroad industry after establishing entitlement to old-age insurance benefits under section
202(a) of the Social Security Act.
If your service in the railroad industry is used to establish your entitlement to, or to determine the amount of, your old-age insurance benefits under section 202(a) of the Social Security Act, but you become vested after the effective date of your benefits, your railroad service will no longer be deemed to be in “employment” as defined in section 210 of the Act. Your benefits and any benefits payable to your spouse or child under section 202(b), (c), or (d) of the Act will be terminated with the month preceding the month in which you become a vested worker. However, if you remain insured (
see
subpart B of this part) without the use of your railroad compensation, your benefits will instead be recalculated without using your railroad compensation. The recalculated benefits will be payable beginning with the month in which you become a vested worker. Any monthly benefits paid prior to the month you become a vested worker are deemed to be correct payments.
[18 FR 8694, Dec. 24, 1953, as amended at 25 FR 5182, June 10, 1960; 42 FR 18273, Apr. 6, 1977; 69 FR 5693, Feb. 6, 2004]
§ 404.1406
Eligibility to railroad retirement benefits as a bar to payment of social security benefits.
Notwithstanding the fact that, pursuant to the preceding provisions of this subpart, services rendered by an individual in the railroad industry are in employment, no lump-sum death payment or survivor monthly benefits shall be paid (except as provided in § 404.1407) under the regulations in this part on the basis of such individual's wages and self-employment income if any person, upon filing application therefor, would be entitled to an annuity under section 2 of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 or a lump-sum payment under section 6(b) of such Act with respect to the death of that individual; or for periods prior to 1975, would have been entitled to an annuity under section 5 or a lump-sum payment under section 5(f)(1) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 with respect to the death of that individual.
[42 FR 18273, Apr. 6, 1977]
§ 404.1407
When railroad retirement benefits do not bar payment of social security benefits.
The provisions of § 404.1406 shall not operate if:
(a) The survivor is, or upon filing application would be, entitled to a monthly benefit with respect to the death of an insured individual for a month prior to January 1947, if such monthly benefit is greater in amount than the survivor annuity payable to such survivor after 1946 under the Railroad Retirement Act; or
(b) The residual lump-sum payment provided by section 6(c) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 (or section 5(f)(2) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 prior to the 1974 Act) with respect to the death of an insured individual is paid by the Railroad Retirement Board pursuant to an irrevocable election filed with the Board by the widow, widower, or parent of such individual to waive all future annuities or benefits based on the combined record of earnings and compensation to which such widow, widower or parent might become entitled, but only to the extent that widow's, widower's or parent's benefits may be payable under the regulations of this part to such widow, widower or parent, as the case may be, solely on the basis of the wages and self-employment income of such deceased individual and without regard to any compensation which may be treated as wages pursuant to § 404.1408.
[42 FR 18273, Apr. 6, 1977]
§ 404.1408
Compensation to be treated as wages.
(a)
General.
Where pursuant to the preceding provisions of this subpart, services rendered by an individual in the railroad industry are considered to be employment as defined in section 210 of the Social Security Act (see § 404.1027 of this part). Thus, any compensation (as defined in section 1(h) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 or prior to the 1974 Act, section 1(h) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937) received by such individual for such services shall constitute wages, provided that the provisions of § 404.1406 do not operate to bar the payments of benefits under title II of the Social Security Act.
(b)
Military service exception.
An exception to paragraph (a) of this section applies to any compensation attributable as having been paid during any month on account of military service creditable under section 1 of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 (or section 4 of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 prior to the 1974 Act). Such compensation shall not constitute wages for purposes of title II of the Social Security Act if, based on such services, wages are deemed to have been paid to such individual during such month under the provisions described in §§ 404.1350 through 404.1352 of this part.
[65 FR 16813, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.1409
Purposes of using compensation.
Compensation which is treated as wages under § 404.1408 shall be used, together with wages (see subpart K of this part) and self-employment income (see subpart K of this part), for purposes of:
(a) Determining an individual's insured status for monthly benefits or the lump-sum death payment (see subpart B of this part);
(b) Computing such individual's primary insurance amount (see subpart C of this part);
(c) Determining an individual's entitlement to the establishment of a period of disability (see subpart B of this part for disability insured status requirements); and
(d) Applying the deduction provisions of section 203 of the act (see subpart E of this part).
[25 FR 5183, June 10, 1960]
§ 404.1410
Presumption on basis of certified compensation record.
(a)
Years prior to 1975.
Where the Railroad Retirement Board certifies to SSA a report of record of compensation, such compensation is treated as wages under § 404.1408. For periods of service which do not identify the months or quarters in which such compensation was paid, the sum of the compensation quarters of coverage (see § 404.1412) will be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to represent an equivalent number of quarters of coverage (see § 404.101). No more than four quarters of coverage shall be credited to an individual in a single calendar year.
(b)
Years after 1974.
Compensation paid in a calendar year will, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, be presumed to have been paid in equal proportions with respect to all months in the year in which the employee will have been in railroad service. (For years prior to 1975, see § 404.1412.)
(c)
Allocation of compensation to months of service.
If by means of the presumptions in this section an individual does not have an insured status (see subpart B of this part) on the basis of quarters of coverage with which he is credited, or a deceased individual's primary insurance amount (see § 404.201) may be affected because he attained age 22 after 1936, the Administration may request the Railroad Retirement Board to furnish a report of the months in which such individual rendered service for compensation which is treated as wages under § 404.1408 if it appears the identification of such months may result in an insured status or if it will affect such primary insurance amount.
(d)
Effect of self-employment income and maximum earnings.
However, if such individual also had self-employment income for a taxable year and the sum of such income and wages (including compensation which is treated as wages under § 404.1408) paid to or received by him during such taxable year equals the following amounts, each calendar quarter any part of which falls in such taxable year, shall be a quarter of coverage:
(1) After 1950 and prior to 1955, equals $3,600 of remuneration;
(2) After 1954 and prior to 1959, equals $4,200 of remuneration;
(3) After 1958 and prior to 1966, equals $4,800 of remuneration;
(4) After 1965 and prior to 1968, equals $6,600 of remuneration;
(5) After 1967 and beginning prior to 1972, equals $7,800 of remuneration (including a fiscal year which began in 1971 and ended in 1972);
(6) Beginning after 1971 and prior to 1973, equals $9,000 of remuneration;
(7) Beginning after 1972 and prior to 1974, equals $10,800 of remuneration;
(8) Beginning after 1973 and prior to 1975, equals $13,200 of remuneration;
(9) Beginning after 1974 and prior to 1976, equals $14,100 of remuneration;
(10) Beginning after 1975 and prior to 1977, equals $15,300 of remuneration; or
(11) Beginning after 1976, and amount equal to the contribution and benefit base as determined under section 230 of the Social Security Act which is effective for such calendar year.
This subsection is an exception to the rule in paragraph (a) of this section concerning a presumption applicable to conversion of railroad compensation into quarters of coverage for years prior to 1975.
[42 FR 18273, Apr. 6, 1977, as amended at 65 FR 16814, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.1412
Compensation quarters of coverage.
As used in this subpart, a compensation quarter of coverage is any quarter of coverage computed with respect to compensation paid to an individual for railroad employment after 1936 and prior to 1975 in accordance with the provisions for determining such quarters of coverage as contained in section 5(l)(4) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937. (For years beginning 1975, see § 404.1410(b)).
[42 FR 18274, Apr. 6, 1977]
§ 404.1413
When will we certify payment to the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB)?
(a)
When we will certify payment to RRB.
If we find that you are entitled to any payment under title II of the Social Security Act, we will certify payment to the Railroad Retirement Board if you meet any of the following requirements:
(1) You are a vested worker; or
(2) You are the wife or husband of a vested worker; or
(3) You are the survivor of a vested worker and you are entitled, or could upon application be entitled to, an annuity under section 2 of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, as amended, (45 U.S.C. 231(a)); or
(4) You are entitled to benefits under section 202 of the Social Security Act on the basis of the wages and self-employment income of a vested worker (unless you are the survivor of a vested worker who did not have a current connection, as defined in section 1(o) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, as amended, (45 U.S.C. 231(o)) with the railroad industry at the time of his or her death).
(b)
What information does certification include?
The certification we make to the Railroad Retirement Board for individuals entitled to any payment(s) under title II will include your name, address, payment amount(s), and the date the payment(s) should begin.
(c)
Applicability limitations.
The applicability limitations in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section affect claimants who first become entitled to benefits under title II of the Social Security Act after 1974. (
See
also § 404.1810.)
[69 FR 5693, Feb. 6, 2004]

# Subpart P—Determining Disability and Blindness

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 402, 405(a)-(b) and (d)-(h), 416(i), 421(a) and (h)-(j), 422(c), 423, 425, 902(a)(5), and 1320e-3; sec. 211(b), Pub. L. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105, 2189; sec. 202, Pub. L. 108-203, 118 Stat. 509 (42 U.S.C. 902 note).

# Source:
45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 404.1501
Scope of subpart.
In order for you to become entitled to any benefits based upon disability or blindness or to have a period of disability established, you must be disabled or blind as defined in title II of the Social Security Act. This subpart explains how we determine whether you are disabled or blind. We discuss a
period of disability
in subpart D of this part. We have organized the rules in the following way.
(a) We define general terms, then discuss who makes our disability determinations and state that disability determinations made under other programs are not binding on our determinations.
(b) We explain the term
disability
and note some of the major factors that are considered in determining whether you are disabled in §§ 404.1505 through 404.1510.
(c) Sections 404.1512 through 404.1518 contain our rules on evidence. We explain your responsibilities for submitting evidence of your impairment, state what we consider to be acceptable sources of medical evidence, and describe what information should be included in medical reports.
(d) Our general rules on evaluating disability if you are filing a new application are stated in §§ 404.1520 through 404.1523. We describe the steps that we go through and the order in which they are considered.
(e) Our rules on medical considerations are found in §§ 404.1525 through 404.1530. We explain in these rules—
(1) The purpose of the Listing of Impairments found in appendix 1 of this subpart and how to use it;
(2) What we mean by the term
medical equivalence
and how we determine medical equivalence;
(3) The effect of a conclusion by your physician that you are disabled;
(4) What we mean by symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings;
(5) How we evaluate pain and other symptoms; and
(6) The effect on your benefits if you fail to follow treatment that is expected to restore your ability to work, and how we apply the rule.
(f) In §§ 404.1545 through 404.1546 we explain what we mean by the term
residual functional capacity,
state when an assessment of residual functional capacity is required, and who may make it.
(g) Our rules on vocational considerations are in §§ 404.1560 through 404.1569a. We explain in these rules—
(1) When we must consider vocational factors along with the medical evidence;
(2) How we use our residual functional capacity assessment to determine if you can still do your past relevant work or other work;
(3) How we consider the vocational factors of age, education, and work experience;
(4) What we mean by “work which exists in the national economy”;
(5) How we consider the exertional, nonexertional, and skill requirements of work, and when we will consider the limitations or restrictions that result from your impairment(s) and related symptoms to be exertional, nonexertional, or a combination of both; and
(6) How we use the Medical-Vocational Guidelines in appendix 2 of this subpart.
(h) Our rules on substantial gainful activity are found in §§ 404.1571 through 404.1574. These explain what we mean by substantial gainful activity and how we evaluate your work activity.
(i) In §§ 404.1577, 404.1578, and 404.1579, we explain the special rules covering disability for widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses for monthly benefits payable for months prior to January 1991, and in §§ 404.1581 through 404.1587 we discuss disability due to blindness.
(j) Our rules on when disability continues and stops are contained in § 404.1579 and §§ 404.1588 through 404.1598. We explain what your responsibilities are in telling us of any events that may cause a change in your disability status, when you may have a trial work period, and when we will review to see if you are still disabled. We also explain how we consider the issue of medical improvement (and the exceptions to medical improvement) in deciding whether you are still disabled.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 50126, Dec. 6, 1985; 56 FR 57941, Nov. 14, 1991; 57 FR 30120, July 8, 1992; 68 FR 51161, Aug. 26, 2003]
§ 404.1502
Definitions for this subpart.
As used in the subpart—
(a)
Acceptable medical source
means a medical source who is a:
(1) Licensed physician (medical or osteopathic doctor);
(2) Licensed psychologist, which includes:
(i) A licensed or certified psychologist at the independent practice level; or
(ii) A licensed or certified school psychologist, or other licensed or certified individual with another title who performs the same function as a school psychologist in a school setting, for impairments of intellectual disability, learning disabilities, and borderline intellectual functioning only;
(3) Licensed optometrist for impairments of visual disorders, or measurement of visual acuity and visual fields
only, depending on the scope of practice in the State in which the optometrist practices;
(4) Licensed podiatrist for impairments of the foot, or foot and ankle only, depending on whether the State in which the podiatrist practices permits the practice of podiatry on the foot only, or the foot and ankle;
(5) Qualified speech-language pathologist for speech or language impairments only. For this source,
qualified
means that the speech-language pathologist must be licensed by the State professional licensing agency, or be fully certified by the State education agency in the State in which he or she practices, or hold a Certificate of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology from the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association;
(6) Licensed audiologist for impairments of hearing loss, auditory processing disorders, and balance disorders within the licensed scope of practice only (with respect to claims filed (see § 404.614) on or after March 27, 2017);
(7) Licensed Advanced Practice Registered Nurse, or other licensed advanced practice nurse with another title, for impairments within his or her licensed scope of practice (only with respect to claims filed (see § 404.614) on or after March 27, 2017); or
(8) Licensed Physician Assistant for impairments within his or her licensed scope of practice (only with respect to claims filed (see § 404.614) on or after March 27, 2017).
(b)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security or his or her authorized designee.
(c)
Laboratory findings
means one or more anatomical, physiological, or psychological phenomena that can be shown by the use of medically acceptable laboratory diagnostic techniques. Diagnostic techniques include chemical tests (such as blood tests), electrophysiological studies (such as electrocardiograms and electroencephalograms), medical imaging (such as X-rays), and psychological tests.
(d)
Medical source
means an individual who is licensed as a healthcare worker by a State and working within the scope of practice permitted under State or Federal law, or an individual who is certified by a State as a speech-language pathologist or a school psychologist and acting within the scope of practice permitted under State or Federal law.
(e)
Nonmedical source
means a source of evidence who is not a medical source. This includes, but is not limited to:
(1) You;
(2) Educational personnel (for example, school teachers, counselors, early intervention team members, developmental center workers, and daycare center workers);
(3) Public and private social welfare agency personnel; and
(4) Family members, caregivers, friends, neighbors, employers, and clergy.
(f)
Objective medical evidence
means signs, laboratory findings, or both.
(g)
Signs
means one or more anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities that can be observed, apart from your statements (symptoms). Signs must be shown by medically acceptable clinical diagnostic techniques. Psychiatric signs are medically demonstrable phenomena that indicate specific psychological abnormalities, e.g., abnormalities of behavior, mood, thought, memory, orientation, development, or perception, and must also be shown by observable facts that can be medically described and evaluated.
(h)
State agency
means an agency of a State designated by that State to carry out the disability or blindness determination function.
(i)
Symptoms
means your own description of your physical or mental impairment.
(j)
We
or
us
means, as appropriate, either the Social Security Administration or the State agency making the disability or blindness determination.
(k)
You
or
your
means, as appropriate, the person who applies for benefits or for a period of disability, the person for whom an application is filed, or the person who is receiving benefits based on disability or blindness.
[82 FR 5864, Jan. 18, 2017; 82 FR 15132, Mar. 27, 2017]

# Determinations
§ 404.1503
Who makes disability and blindness determinations.
(a)
State agencies.
State agencies make disability and blindness determinations for the Commissioner for most persons living in the State. State agencies make these disability and blindness determinations under regulations containing performance standards and other administrative requirements relating to the disability and blindness determination function. States have the option of turning the function over to the Federal Government if they no longer want to make disability determinations. Also, the Commissioner may take the function away from any State which has substantially failed to make disability and blindness determinations in accordance with these regulations. Subpart Q of this part contains the rules the States must follow in making disability and blindness determinations.
(b)
Social Security Administration.
The Social Security Administration will make disability and blindness determinations for—
(1) Any person living in a State which is not making for the Commissioner any disability and blindness determinations or which is not making those determinations for the class of claimants to which that person belongs; and
(2) Any person living outside the United States.
(c)
What determinations are authorized.
The Commissioner has authorized the State agencies and the Social Security Administration to make determinations about—
(1) Whether you are disabled or blind;
(2) The date your disability or blindness began; and
(3) The date your disability or blindness stopped.
(d)
Review of State Agency determinations.
On review of a State agency determination or redetermination of disability or blindness we may find that—
(1) You are, or are not, disabled or blind, regardless of what the State agency found;
(2) Your disability or blindness began earlier or later than the date found by the State agency; and
(3) Your disability or blindness stopped earlier or later than the date found by the State agency.
[46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 33926, Sept. 9, 1987; 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 65 FR 34957, June 1, 2000; 71 FR 16443, Mar. 31, 2006; 72 FR 51177, Sept. 6, 2007; 82 FR 5864, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1503a
Program integrity.
We will not use in our program any individual or entity, except to provide existing medical evidence, who is currently excluded, suspended, or otherwise barred from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or any other Federal or Federally-assisted program; whose license to provide health care services is currently revoked or suspended by any State licensing authority pursuant to adequate due process procedures for reasons bearing on professional competence, professional conduct, or financial integrity; or who, until a final determination is made, has surrendered such a license while formal disciplinary proceedings involving professional conduct are pending. By individual or entity we mean a medical or psychological consultant, consultative examination provider, or diagnostic test facility. Also see §§ 404.1519 and 404.1519g(b).
[56 FR 36954, Aug. 1, 1991]
§ 404.1503b
Evidence from excluded medical sources of evidence.
(a)
General.
We will not consider evidence from the following medical sources excluded under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Social Security Act (Act), as amended, unless we find good cause under paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Any medical source that has been convicted of a felony under section 208 or under section 1632 of the Act;
(2) Any medical source that has been excluded from participation in any Federal health care program under section 1128 of the Act; or
(3) Any medical source that has received a final decision imposing a civil monetary penalty or assessment, or both, for submitting false evidence under section 1129 of the Act.
(b)
Good cause.
We may find good cause to consider evidence from an excluded medical source of evidence under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Act, as amended, if:
(1) The evidence from the medical source consists of evidence of treatment that occurred before the date the source was convicted of a felony under section 208 or under section 1632 of the Act;
(2) The evidence from the medical source consists of evidence of treatment that occurred during a period in which the source was not excluded from participation in any Federal health care program under section 1128 of the Act;
(3) The evidence from the medical source consists of evidence of treatment that occurred before the date the source received a final decision imposing a civil monetary penalty or assessment, or both, for submitting false evidence under section 1129 of the Act;
(4) The sole basis for the medical source's exclusion under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Act, as amended, is that the source cannot participate in any Federal health care program under section 1128 of the Act, but the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services granted a waiver of the section 1128 exclusion; or
(5) The evidence is a laboratory finding about a physical impairment and there is no indication that the finding is unreliable.
(c)
Reporting requirements for excluded medical sources of evidence.
Excluded medical sources of evidence (as described in paragraph (a) of this section) must inform us in writing that they are excluded under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Act, as amended, each time they submit evidence related to a claim for initial or continuing benefits under titles II or XVI of the Act. This reporting requirement applies to evidence that excluded medical sources of evidence submit to us either directly or through a representative, claimant, or other individual or entity.
(1) Excluded medical sources of evidence must provide a written statement, which contains the following information:
(i) A heading stating: “WRITTEN STATEMENT REGARDING SECTION 223(d)(5)(C) OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT—DO NOT REMOVE”
(ii) The name and title of the medical source;
(iii) The applicable excluding event(s) stated in paragraph (a)(1)-(a)(3) of this section;
(iv) The date of the medical source's felony conviction under sections 208 or 1632 of the Act, if applicable;
(v) The date of the imposition of a civil monetary penalty or assessment, or both, for the submission of false evidence, under section 1129 of the Act, if applicable; and
(vi) The basis, effective date, anticipated length of the exclusion, and whether the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services waived the exclusion, if the excluding event was the medical source's exclusion from participation in any Federal health care program under section 1128 of the Act.
(2) The written statement provided by an excluded medical source of evidence may not be removed by any individual or entity prior to submitting evidence to us.
(3) We may request that the excluded medical source of evidence provide us with additional information or clarify any information submitted that bears on the medical source's exclusion(s) under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Act, as amended.
[81 FR 65540, Sept. 22, 2016]
§ 404.1504
Decisions by other governmental agencies and nongovernmental entities.
Other governmental agencies and nongovernmental entities—such as the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, the Department of Labor, the Office of Personnel Management, State agencies, and private insurers— make disability, blindness, employability, Medicaid, workers' compensation, and other benefits decisions for their own programs using their own rules. Because a decision by any other governmental agency or a nongovernmental entity about whether you are disabled, blind, employable, or entitled to any benefits is based on its rules, it is not binding on us and is not
our decision about whether you are disabled or blind under our rules. Therefore, in claims filed (see § 404.614) on or after March 27, 2017, we will not provide any analysis in our determination or decision about a decision made by any other governmental agency or a nongovernmental entity about whether you are disabled, blind, employable, or entitled to any benefits. However, we will consider all of the supporting evidence underlying the other governmental agency or nongovernmental entity's decision that we receive as evidence in your claim in accordance with § 404.1513(a)(1) through (4).
[82 FR 5864, Jan. 18, 2017]

# Definition of Disability
§ 404.1505
Basic definition of disability.
(a) The law defines disability as the inability to do any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. To meet this definition, you must have a severe impairment(s) that makes you unable to do your past relevant work (
see
§ 404.1560(b)) or any other substantial gainful work that exists in the national economy. If your severe impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing in appendix 1, we will assess your residual functional capacity as provided in §§ 404.1520(e) and 404.1545. (
See
§§ 404.1520(g)(2) and 404.1562 for an exception to this rule.) We will use this residual functional capacity assessment to determine if you can do your past relevant work. If we find that you cannot do your past relevant work, we will use the same residual functional capacity assessment and your vocational factors of age, education, and work experience to determine if you can do other work. (
See
§ 404.1520(h) for an exception to this rule.) We will use this definition of disability if you are applying for a period of disability, or disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, or child's insurance benefits based on disability before age 22 or, with respect to disability benefits payable for months after December 1990, as a widow, widower, or surviving divorced spouse.
(b) There are different rules for determining disability for individuals who are statutorily blind. We discuss these in §§ 404.1581 through 404.1587. There are also different rules for determining disability for widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses for monthly benefits for months prior to January 1991. We discuss these rules in §§ 404.1577, 404.1578, and 404.1579.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 10616, Mar. 28, 1986; 57 FR 30120, July 8, 1992; 68 FR 51161, Aug. 26, 2003; 77 FR 43494, July 25, 2012]
§ 404.1506
When we will not consider your impairment.
(a)
Permanent exclusion of felony-related impairment.
In determining whether you are under a disability, we will not consider any physical or mental impairment, or any increase in severity (aggravation) of a preexisting impairment, which arises in connection with your commission of a felony after October 19, 1980, if you are subsequently convicted of this crime. Your subsequent conviction will invalidate any prior determination establishing disability if that determination was based upon any impairment, or aggravation, which we must exclude under this rule.
(b)
Limited use of impairment arising in prison.
In determining whether you are under a disability for purposes of benefit payments, we will not consider any physical or mental impairment, or any increase in severity (aggravation) of a preexisting impairment, which arises in connection with your confinement in a jail, prison, or other penal institution or correctional facility for conviction of a felony committed after October 19, 1980. The exclusion of the impairment, or aggravation, applies in determining disability for benefits payable for any month during which you are confined. This rule does not preclude the establishment of a period of disability based upon the impairment or aggravation. You may become entitled to benefits upon release from prison provided that you apply and are under a disability at the time.
(c)
Felonious offenses.
We will consider an offense a felony if—
(1) It is a felony under applicable law; or
(2) In a jurisdiction which does not classify any crime as a felony, it is an offense punishable by death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year.
(d)
Confinement.
In general, a jail, prison, or other penal institution or correctional facility is a facility which is under the control and jurisdiction of the agency in charge of the penal system or in which convicted criminals can be incarcerated. Confinement in such a facility continues as long as you are under a sentence of confinement and have not been released due to parole or pardon. You are considered confined even though you are temporarily or intermittently outside of the facility (e.g., on work release, attending school, or hospitalized).
[48 FR 5714, Feb. 8, 1983]
§ 404.1508
[Reserved]
§ 404.1509
How long the impairment must last.
Unless your impairment is expected to result in death, it must have lasted or must be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months. We call this the duration requirement.
§ 404.1510
Meaning of substantial gainful activity.
Substantial gainful activity means work that—
(a) Involves doing significant and productive physical or mental duties; and
(b) Is done (or intended) for pay or profit.
(See § 404.1572 for further details about what we mean by substantial gainful activity.)
§ 404.1511
Definition of a disabling impairment.
(a)
Disabled workers, persons disabled since childhood and, for months after December 1990, disabled widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses.
If you are entitled to disability cash benefits as a disabled worker, or to child's insurance benefits, or, for monthly benefits payable after December 1990, to widow's, widower's, or surviving divorced spouse's monthly benefits, a disabling impairment is an impairment (or combination of impairments) which, of itself, is so severe that it meets or equals a set of criteria in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of this subpart or which, when considered with your age, education, and work experience, would result in a finding that you are disabled under § 404.1594. In determining whether you have a disabling impairment, earnings are not considered.
(b)
Disabled widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses, for monthly benefits for months prior to January 1991.
If you have been entitled to disability benefits as a disabled widow, widower, or surviving divorced spouse and we must decide whether you had a disabling impairment for any time prior to January 1991, a disabling impairment is an impairment (or combination of impairments) which, of itself, was so severe that it met or equaled a set of criteria in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of this subpart, or results in a finding that you were disabled under § 404.1579. In determining whether you had a disabling impairment, earnings are not considered.
[57 FR 30120, July 8, 1992]

# Evidence
§ 404.1512
Responsibility for evidence.
(a)
Your responsibility
—(1)
General.
In general, you have to prove to us that you are blind or disabled. You must inform us about or submit all evidence known to you that relates to whether or not you are blind or disabled (
see
§ 404.1513). This duty is ongoing and requires you to disclose any additional related evidence about which you become aware. This duty applies at each level of the administrative review process, including the Appeals Council level if the evidence relates to the period on or before the date of the administrative law judge hearing decision. We will consider only impairment(s) you say you have or about which we receive evidence. When you submit evidence received from another source, you must submit that evidence in its entirety, unless you previously submitted the same evidence to us or we instruct you otherwise. If we ask you, you must inform us about:
(i) Your medical source(s);
(ii) Your age;
(iii) Your education and training;
(iv) Your work experience;
(v) Your daily activities both before and after the date you say that you became disabled;
(vi) Your efforts to work; and
(vii) Any other factors showing how your impairment(s) affects your ability to work. In §§ 404.1560 through 404.1569, we discuss in more detail the evidence we need when we consider vocational factors.
(2)
Completeness.
The evidence in your case record must be complete and detailed enough to allow us to make a determination or decision about whether you are disabled or blind. It must allow us to determine—
(i) The nature and severity of your impairment(s) for any period in question;
(ii) Whether the duration requirement described in § 404.1509 is met; and
(iii) Your residual functional capacity to do work-related physical and mental activities, when the evaluation steps described in § 404.1520(e) or (f)(1) apply.
(b)
Our responsibility
—(1)
Development.
Before we make a determination that you are not disabled, we will develop your complete medical history for at least the 12 months preceding the month in which you file your application unless there is a reason to believe that development of an earlier period is necessary or unless you say that your disability began less than 12 months before you filed your application. We will make every reasonable effort to help you get medical evidence from your own medical sources and entities that maintain your medical sources' evidence when you give us permission to request the reports.
(i)
Every reasonable effort
means that we will make an initial request for evidence from your medical source or entity that maintains your medical source's evidence, and, at any time between 10 and 20 calendar days after the initial request, if the evidence has not been received, we will make one follow-up request to obtain the medical evidence necessary to make a determination. The medical source or entity that maintains your medical source's evidence will have a minimum of 10 calendar days from the date of our follow-up request to reply, unless our experience with that source indicates that a longer period is advisable in a particular case.
(ii)
Complete medical history
means the records of your medical source(s) covering at least the 12 months preceding the month in which you file your application. If you say that your disability began less than 12 months before you filed your application, we will develop your complete medical history beginning with the month you say your disability began unless we have reason to believe your disability began earlier. If applicable, we will develop your complete medical history for the 12-month period prior to the month you were last insured for disability insurance benefits (see § 404.130), the month ending the 7-year period you may have to establish your disability and you are applying for widow's or widower's benefits based on disability (see § 404.335(c)(1)), or the month you attain age 22 and you are applying for child's benefits based on disability (see § 404.350).
(2)
Obtaining a consultative examination.
We may ask you to attend one or more consultative examinations at our expense. See §§ 404.1517 through 404.1519t for the rules governing the consultative examination process. Generally, we will not request a consultative examination until we have made every reasonable effort to obtain evidence from your own medical sources. We may order a consultative examination while awaiting receipt of medical source evidence in some instances, such as when we know a source is not productive, is uncooperative, or is unable to provide certain tests or procedures. We will not evaluate this evidence until we have made every reasonable effort to obtain evidence from your medical sources.
(3)
Other work.
In order to determine under § 404.1520(g) that you are able to adjust to other work, we must provide evidence about the existence of work in the national economy that you can do (see §§ 404.1560 through 404.1569a), given your residual functional capacity (which we have already assessed, as described in § 404.1520(e)), age, education, and work experience.
[82 FR 5864, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1513
Categories of evidence.
(a)
What we mean by evidence.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b), evidence is anything you or anyone else submits to us or that we obtain that relates to your claim. We consider evidence under §§ 404.1520b, 404.1520c (or under § 404.1527 for claims filed (see § 404.614) before March 27, 2017). We evaluate evidence we receive according to the rules pertaining to the relevant category of evidence. The categories of evidence are:
(1)
Objective medical evidence.
Objective medical evidence is medical signs, laboratory findings, or both, as defined in § 404.1502(f).
(2)
Medical opinion.
A medical opinion is a statement from a medical source about what you can still do despite your impairment(s) and whether you have one or more impairment-related limitations or restrictions in the following abilities: (For claims filed (see § 404.614) before March 27, 2017, see § 404.1527(a) for the definition of medical opinion.)
(i) Your ability to perform physical demands of work activities, such as sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, pulling, or other physical functions (including manipulative or postural functions, such as reaching, handling, stooping, or crouching);
(ii) Your ability to perform mental demands of work activities, such as understanding; remembering; maintaining concentration, persistence, or pace; carrying out instructions; or responding appropriately to supervision, co-workers, or work pressures in a work setting;
(iii) Your ability to perform other demands of work, such as seeing, hearing, or using other senses; and
(iv) Your ability to adapt to environmental conditions, such as temperature extremes or fumes.
(3)
Other medical evidence.
Other medical evidence is evidence from a medical source that is not objective medical evidence or a medical opinion, including judgments about the nature and severity of your impairments, your medical history, clinical findings, diagnosis, treatment prescribed with response, or prognosis. (For claims filed (see § 404.614) before March 27, 2017,
other medical evidence
does not include a diagnosis, prognosis, or a statement that reflects a judgment(s) about the nature and severity of your impairment(s)).
(4)
Evidence from nonmedical sources.
Evidence from nonmedical sources is any information or statement(s) from a nonmedical source (including you) about any issue in your claim. We may receive evidence from nonmedical sources either directly from the nonmedical source or indirectly, such as from forms we receive and our administrative records.
(5)
Prior administrative medical finding.
A prior administrative medical finding is a finding, other than the ultimate determination about whether you are disabled, about a medical issue made by our Federal and State agency medical and psychological consultants at a prior level of review (see § 404.900) in your current claim based on their review of the evidence in your case record, such as:
(i) The existence and severity of your impairment(s);
(ii) The existence and severity of your symptoms;
(iii) Statements about whether your impairment(s) meets or medically equals any listing in the Listing of Impairments in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 1;
(iv) Your residual functional capacity;
(v) Whether your impairment(s) meets the duration requirement; and
(vi) How failure to follow prescribed treatment (see § 404.1530) and drug addiction and alcoholism (see § 404.1535) relate to your claim.
(b)
Exceptions for privileged communications.
(1) The privileged communications listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section are not evidence, and we will neither consider nor provide any analysis about them in your determination or decision. This exception for privileged communications applies equally whether your representative is an attorney or a non-attorney.
(i) Oral or written communications between you and your representative that are subject to the attorney-client privilege, unless you voluntarily disclose the communication to us.
(ii) Your representative's analysis of your claim, unless he or she voluntarily discloses it to us. This analysis means information that is subject to the attorney work product doctrine, but it does not include medical evidence, medical opinions, or any other factual matter that we may consider in determining whether or not you are entitled to benefits (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
(2) The attorney-client privilege generally protects confidential communications between an attorney and his or her client that are related to providing or obtaining legal advice. The attorney work product doctrine generally protects an attorney's analyses, theories, mental impressions, and notes. In the context of your disability claim, neither the attorney-client privilege nor the attorney work product doctrine allow you to withhold factual information, medical opinions, or other medical evidence that we may consider in determining whether or not you are entitled to benefits. For example, if you tell your representative about the medical sources you have seen, your representative cannot refuse to disclose the identity of those medical sources to us based on the attorney-client privilege. As another example, if your representative asks a medical source to complete an opinion form related to your impairment(s), symptoms, or limitations, your representative cannot withhold the completed opinion form from us based on the attorney work product doctrine. The attorney work product doctrine would not protect the source's opinions on the completed form, regardless of whether or not your representative used the form in his or her analysis of your claim or made handwritten notes on the face of the report.
[82 FR 5865, Jan. 18, 2017; 82 FR 15132, Mar. 27, 2017]
§ 404.1513a
Evidence from our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants.
The following rules apply to our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants that we consult in connection with administrative law judge hearings and Appeals Council reviews:
(a) In claims adjudicated by the State agency, a State agency medical or psychological consultant may make the determination of disability together with a State agency disability examiner or provide medical evidence to a State agency disability examiner when the disability examiner makes the initial or reconsideration determination alone (see § 404.1615(c)). The following rules apply:
(1) When a State agency medical or psychological consultant makes the determination together with a State agency disability examiner at the initial or reconsideration level of the administrative review process as provided in § 404.1615(c)(1), he or she will consider the evidence in your case record and make administrative findings about the medical issues, including, but not limited to, the existence and severity of your impairment(s), the existence and severity of your symptoms, whether your impairment(s) meets or medically equals the requirements for any impairment listed in appendix 1 to this subpart, and your residual functional capacity. These administrative medical findings are based on the evidence in your case but are not in themselves evidence at the level of the administrative review process at which they are made. See § 404.1513(a)(5).
(2) When a State agency disability examiner makes the initial determination alone as provided in § 404.1615(c)(3), he or she may obtain medical evidence from a State agency medical or psychological consultant about one or more of the medical issues listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In these cases, the State agency disability examiner will consider the medical evidence of the State agency medical or psychological consultant under §§ 404.1520b, 404.1520c, and 404.1527.
(3) When a State agency disability examiner makes a reconsideration determination alone as provided in § 404.1615(c)(3), he or she will consider prior administrative medical findings made by a State agency medical or psychological consultant at the initial level of the administrative review process, and any medical evidence provided by such consultants at the initial and reconsideration levels, about one or more of the medical issues listed in
paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section under §§ 404.1520b, 404.1520c, and 404.1527.
(b) Administrative law judges are responsible for reviewing the evidence and making administrative findings of fact and conclusions of law. They will consider prior administrative medical findings and medical evidence from our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants as follows:
(1) Administrative law judges are not required to adopt any prior administrative medical findings, but they must consider this evidence according to §§ 404.1520b, 404.1520c, and 404.1527, as appropriate, because our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants are highly qualified and experts in Social Security disability evaluation.
(2) Administrative law judges may also ask for medical evidence from expert medical sources. Administrative law judges will consider this evidence under §§ 404.1520b, 404.1520c, and 404.1527, as appropriate.
(c) When the Appeals Council makes a decision, it will consider prior administrative medical findings according to the same rules for considering prior administrative medical findings as administrative law judges follow under paragraph (b) of this section.
[82 FR 5866, Jan 18, 2017]
§ 404.1514
When we will purchase existing evidence.
We need specific medical evidence to determine whether you are disabled or blind. You are responsible for providing that evidence. However, we will pay physicians not employed by the Federal government and other non-Federal providers of medical services for the reasonable cost of providing us with existing medical evidence that we need and ask for after November 30, 1980.
[46 FR 45757, Sept. 15, 1981]
§ 404.1515
Where and how to submit evidence.
You may give us evidence about your impairment at any of our offices or at the office of any State agency authorized to make disability determinations. You may also give evidence to one of our employees authorized to accept evidence at another place. For more information about this, see subpart H of this part.
§ 404.1516
If you fail to submit medical and other evidence.
If you do not give us the medical and other evidence that we need and request, we will have to make a decision based on information available in your case. We will not excuse you from giving us evidence because you have religious or personal reasons against medical examinations, tests, or treatment.
§ 404.1517
Consultative examination at our expense.
If your medical sources cannot or will not give us sufficient medical evidence about your impairment for us to determine whether you are disabled or blind, we may ask you to have one or more physical or mental examinations or tests. We will pay for these examinations. However, we will not pay for any medical examination arranged by you or your representative without our advance approval. If we arrange for the examination or test, we will give you reasonable notice of the date, time, and place the examination or test will be given, and the name of the person or facility who will do it. We will also give the examiner any necessary background information about your condition.
[56 FR 36956, Aug. 1, 1991]
§ 404.1518
If you do not appear at a consultative examination.
(a)
General.
If you are applying for benefits and do not have a good reason for failing or refusing to take part in a consultative examination or test which we arrange for you to get information we need to determine your disability or blindness, we may find that you are not disabled or blind. If you are already receiving benefits and do not have a good reason for failing or refusing to take part in a consultative examination or test which we arranged for you, we may determine that your disability or blindness has stopped because of your failure or refusal. Therefore, if you have any reason why you cannot go for the scheduled appointment, you should tell us about this as soon as possible before the examination date. If
you have a good reason, we will schedule another examination. We will consider your physical, mental, educational, and linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) when determining if you have a good reason for failing to attend a consultative examination.
(b)
Examples of good reasons for failure to appear.
Some examples of what we consider good reasons for not going to a scheduled examination include—
(1) Illness on the date of the scheduled examination or test;
(2) Not receiving timely notice of the scheduled examination or test, or receiving no notice at all;
(3) Being furnished incorrect or incomplete information, or being given incorrect information about the physician involved or the time or place of the examination or test, or;
(4) Having had death or serious illness occur in your immediate family.
(c)
Objections by your medical source(s).
If any of your medical sources tell you that you should not take the examination or test, you should tell us at once. In many cases, we may be able to get the information we need in another way. Your medical source(s) may agree to another type of examination for the same purpose.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 1635, Jan. 12, 1994; 82 FR 5866, Jan. 18, 2017]

# Standards To Be Used in Determining When a Consultative Examination Will Be Obtained in Connection With Disability Determinations
§ 404.1519
The consultative examination.
A consultative examination is a physical or mental examination or test purchased for you at our request and expense from a treating source or another medical source, including a pediatrician when appropriate. The decision to purchase a consultative examination will be made on an individual case basis in accordance with the provisions of §§ 404.1519a through 404.1519f. Selection of the source for the examination will be consistent with the provisions of § 404.1503a and §§ 404.1519g through 404.1519j. The rules and procedures for requesting consultative examinations set forth in §§ 404.1519a and 404.1519b are applicable at the reconsideration and hearing levels of review, as well as the initial level of determination.
[56 FR 36956, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11875, Mar. 7, 2000]
§ 404.1519a
When we will purchase a consultative examination and how we will use it.
(a)
General.
If we cannot get the information we need from your medical sources, we may decide to purchase a consultative examination. See § 404.1512 for the procedures we will follow to obtain evidence from your medical sources and § 404.1520b for how we consider evidence. Before purchasing a consultative examination, we will consider not only existing medical reports, but also the disability interview form containing your allegations as well as other pertinent evidence in your file.
(b)
Situations that may require a consultative examination.
We may purchase a consultative examination to try to resolve an inconsistency in the evidence, or when the evidence as a whole is insufficient to allow us to make a determination or decision on your claim. Some examples of when we might purchase a consultative examination to secure needed medical evidence, such as clinical findings, laboratory tests, a diagnosis, or prognosis, include but are not limited to:
(1) The additional evidence needed is not contained in the records of your medical sources;
(2) The evidence that may have been available from your treating or other medical sources cannot be obtained for reasons beyond your control, such as death or noncooperation of a medical source;
(3) Highly technical or specialized medical evidence that we need is not available from your treating or other medical sources; or
(4) There is an indication of a change in your condition that is likely to affect your ability to work, but the current severity of your impairment is not established.
[56 FR 36956, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 77 FR 10655, Feb. 23, 2012]
§ 404.1519b
When we will not purchase a consultative examination.
We will not purchase a consultative examination in situations including, but not limited to, the following situations:
(a) In period of disability and disability insurance benefit claims, when you do not meet the insured status requirement in the calendar quarter you allege you became disabled or later and there is no possibility of establishing an earlier onset;
(b) In claims for widow's or widower's benefits based on disability, when your alleged month of disability is after the end of the 7-year period specified in § 404.335(c)(1) and there is no possibility of establishing an earlier onset date, or when the 7-year period expired in the past and there is no possibility of establishing an onset date prior to the date the 7-year period expired;
(c) In disability insurance benefit claims, when your insured status expired in the past and there is no possibility of establishing an onset date prior to the date your insured status expired;
(d) When any issues about your actual performance of substantial gainful activity or gainful activity have not been resolved;
(e) In claims for child's benefits based on disability, when it is determined that your alleged disability did not begin before the month you attained age 22, and there is no possibility of establishing an onset date earlier than the month in which you attained age 22;
(f) In claims for child's benefits based on disability that are filed concurrently with the insured individual's claim and entitlement cannot be established for the insured individual;
(g) In claims for child's benefits based on disability where entitlement is precluded based on other nondisability factors.
[56 FR 36956, Aug. 1, 1991]

# Standards for the Type of Referral and for Report Content
§ 404.1519f
Type of purchased examinations.
We will purchase only the specific examinations and tests we need to make a determination in your claim. For example, we will not authorize a comprehensive medical examination when the only evidence we need is a special test, such as an X-ray, blood studies, or an electrocardiogram.
[56 FR 36956, Aug. 1, 1991]
§ 404.1519g
Who we will select to perform a consultative examination.
(a) We will purchase a consultative examination only from a qualified medical source. The medical source may be your own medical source or another medical source. If you are a child, the medical source we choose may be a pediatrician.
(b) By “qualified,” we mean that the medical source must be currently licensed in the State and have the training and experience to perform the type of examination or test we will request; the medical source must not be barred from participation in our programs under the provisions of § 404.1503a. The medical source must also have the equipment required to provide an adequate assessment and record of the existence and level of severity of your alleged impairments.
(c) The medical source we choose may use support staff to help perform the consultative examination. Any such support staff (e.g., X-ray technician, nurse) must meet appropriate licensing or certification requirements of the State. See § 404.1503a.
[56 FR 36957, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11876, Mar. 7, 2000; 82 FR 5866, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1519h
Your medical source.
When, in our judgment, your medical source is qualified, equipped, and willing to perform the additional examination or test(s) for the fee schedule payment, and generally furnishes complete and timely reports, your medical source will be the preferred source for the purchased examination or test(s).
[82 FR 5866, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1519i
Other sources for consultative examinations.
We will use a different medical source than your medical source for a
purchased examination or test in situations including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Your medical source prefers not to perform such an examination or does not have the equipment to provide the specific data needed;
(b) There are conflicts or inconsistencies in your file that cannot be resolved by going back to your medical source;
(c) You prefer a source other than your medical source and have a good reason for your preference;
(d) We know from prior experience that your medical source may not be a productive source, such as when he or she has consistently failed to provide complete or timely reports; or
(e) Your medical source is not a qualified medical source as defined in § 404.1519g.
[82 FR 5866, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1519j
Objections to the medical source designated to perform the consultative examination.
You or your representative may object to your being examined by a medical source we have designated to perform a consultative examination. If there is a good reason for the objection, we will schedule the examination with another medical source. A good reason may be that the medical source we designated had previously represented an interest adverse to you. For example, the medical source may have represented your employer in a workers' compensation case or may have been involved in an insurance claim or legal action adverse to you. Other things we will consider include: The presence of a language barrier, the medical source's office location (e.g., 2nd floor, no elevator), travel restrictions, and whether the medical source had examined you in connection with a previous disability determination or decision that was unfavorable to you. If your objection is that a medical source allegedly “lacks objectivity” in general, but not in relation to you personally, we will review the allegations. See § 404.1519s. To avoid a delay in processing your claim, the consultative examination in your case will be changed to another medical source while a review is being conducted. We will handle any objection to use of the substitute medical source in the same manner. However, if we had previously conducted such a review and found that the reports of the medical source in question conformed to our guidelines, we will not change your examination.
[65 FR 11876, Mar. 7, 2000]
§ 404.1519k
Purchase of medical examinations, laboratory tests, and other services.
We may purchase medical examinations, including psychiatric and psychological examinations, X-rays and laboratory tests (including specialized tests, such as pulmonary function studies, electrocardiograms, and stress tests) from a medical source.
(a) The rate of payment for purchasing medical or other services necessary to make determinations of disability may not exceed the highest rate paid by Federal or public agencies in the State for the same or similar types of service.
See
§§ 404.1624 and 404.1626 of this part.
(b) If a physician's bill or a request for payment for a physician's services includes a charge for a laboratory test for which payment may be made under this part, the amount payable with respect to the test shall be determined as follows:
(1) If the bill or request for payment indicates that the test was personally performed or supervised by the physician who submitted the bill (or for whose services the request for payment was made) or by another physician with whom that physician shares his or her practice, the payment will be based on the physician's usual and customary charge for the test or the rates of payment which the State uses for purchasing such services, whichever is the lesser amount.
(2) If the bill or request for payment indicates that the test was performed by an independent laboratory, the amount of reimbursement will not exceed the billed cost of the independent laboratory or the rate of payment which the State uses for purchasing such services, whichever is the lesser amount. A nominal payment may be made to the physician for collecting, handling and shipping a specimen to the laboratory if the physician bills for
such a service. The total reimbursement may not exceed the rate of payment which the State uses for purchasing such services.
(c) The State will assure that it can support the rate of payment it uses. The State shall also be responsible for monitoring and overseeing the rate of payment it uses to ensure compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[56 FR 36957, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11876, Mar. 7, 2000; 71 FR 16444, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24806, May 3, 2011]
§ 404.1519m
Diagnostic tests or procedures.
We will request the results of any diagnostic tests or procedures that have been performed as part of a workup by your treating source or other medical source and will use the results to help us evaluate impairment severity or prognosis. However, we will not order diagnostic tests or procedures that involve significant risk to you, such as myelograms, arteriograms, or cardiac catheterizations for the evaluation of disability under the Social Security program. A State agency medical consultant must approve the ordering of any diagnostic test or procedure when there is a chance it may involve significant risk. The responsibility for deciding whether to perform the examination rests with the medical source designated to perform the consultative examination.
[56 FR 36957, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11876, Mar. 7, 2000; 71 FR 16444, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24806, May 3, 2011]
§ 404.1519n
Informing the medical source of examination scheduling, report content, and signature requirements.
The medical sources who perform consultative examinations will have a good understanding of our disability programs and their evidentiary requirements. They will be made fully aware of their responsibilities and obligations regarding confidentiality as described in § 401.105(e). We will fully inform medical sources who perform consultative examinations at the time we first contact them, and at subsequent appropriate intervals, of the following obligations:
(a)
Scheduling.
In scheduling full consultative examinations, sufficient time should be allowed to permit the medical source to take a case history and perform the examination, including any needed tests. The following minimum scheduling intervals (
i.e.
, time set aside for the individual, not the actual duration of the consultative examination) should be used.
(1) Comprehensive general medical examination—at least 30 minutes;
(2) Comprehensive musculoskeletal or neurological examination—at least 20 minutes;
(3) Comprehensive psychiatric examination—at least 40 minutes;
(4) Psychological examination—at least 60 minutes (Additional time may be required depending on types of psychological tests administered); and
(5) All others—at least 30 minutes, or in accordance with accepted medical practices.
We recognize that actual practice will dictate that some examinations may require longer scheduling intervals depending on the circumstances in a particular situation. We also recognize that these minimum intervals may have to be adjusted to allow for those claimants who do not attend their scheduled examination. The purpose of these minimum scheduling timeframes is to ensure that such examinations are complete and that sufficient time is made available to obtain the information needed to make an accurate determination in your case. State agencies will monitor the scheduling of examinations (through their normal consultative examination oversight activities) to ensure that any overscheduling is avoided, as overscheduling may lead to examinations that are not thorough.
(b)
Report content.
The reported results of your medical history, examination, requested laboratory findings, discussions and conclusions must conform to accepted professional standards and practices in the medical field for a complete and competent examination. The facts in a particular case and the information and findings already reported in the medical and other evidence of record will dictate the extent of detail needed in the consultative examination report for that case. Thus, the detail and format for reporting the
results of a purchased examination will vary depending upon the type of examination or testing requested. The reporting of information will differ from one type of examination to another when the requested examination relates to the performance of tests such as ventilatory function tests, treadmill exercise tests, or audiological tests. The medical report must be complete enough to help us determine the nature, severity, and duration of the impairment, and residual functional capacity. The report should reflect your statement of your symptoms, not simply the medical source's statements or conclusions. The medical source's report of the consultative examination should include the objective medical facts as well as observations and opinions.
(c)
Elements of a complete consultative examination.
A complete consultative examination is one which involves all the elements of a standard examination in the applicable medical specialty. When the report of a complete consultative examination is involved, the report should include the following elements:
(1) Your major or chief complaint(s);
(2) A detailed description, within the area of specialty of the examination, of the history of your major complaint(s);
(3) A description, and disposition, of pertinent “positive” and “negative” detailed findings based on the history, examination and laboratory tests related to the major complaint(s), and any other abnormalities or lack thereof reported or found during examination or laboratory testing;
(4) The results of laboratory and other tests (e.g., X-rays) performed according to the requirements stated in the Listing of Impairments (see appendix 1 of this subpart P);
(5) The diagnosis and prognosis for your impairment(s);
(6)
A medical opinion.
Although we will ordinarily request a medical opinion as part of the consultative examination process, the absence of a medical opinion in a consultative examination report will not make the report incomplete. See § 404.1513(a)(3); and
(7) In addition, the medical source will consider, and provide some explanation or comment on, your major complaint(s) and any other abnormalities found during the history and examination or reported from the laboratory tests. The history, examination, evaluation of laboratory test results, and the conclusions will represent the information provided by the medical source who signs the report.
(d)
When a complete consultative examination is not required.
When the evidence we need does not require a complete consultative examination (for example, we need only a specific laboratory test result to complete the record), we may not require a report containing all of the elements in paragraph (c).
(e)
Signature requirements.
All consultative examination reports will be personally reviewed and signed by the medical source who actually performed the examination. This attests to the fact that the medical source doing the examination or testing is solely responsible for the report contents and for the conclusions, explanations or comments provided with respect to the history, examination and evaluation of laboratory test results. The signature of the medical source on a report annotated “not proofed” or “dictated but not read” is not acceptable. A rubber stamp signature of a medical source or the medical source's signature entered by any other person is not acceptable.
[56 FR 36958, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11876, Mar. 7, 2000; 82 FR 5866, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1519o
When a properly signed consultative examination report has not been received.
If a consultative examination report is received unsigned or improperly signed we will take the following action.
(a)
When we will make determinations and decisions without a properly signed report.
We will make a determination or decision in the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section without waiting for a properly signed consultative examination report. After we have made the determination or decision, we will obtain a properly signed report and include it in the file unless the medical source who performed the original consultative examination has died:
(1) Continuous period of disability allowance with an onset date as alleged or earlier than alleged; or
(2) Continuance of disability.
(b)
When we will not make determinations and decisions without a properly signed report.
We will not use an unsigned or improperly signed consultative examination report to make the determinations or decisions specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section. When we need a properly signed consultative examination report to make these determinations or decisions, we must obtain such a report. If the signature of the medical source who performed the original examination cannot be obtained because the medical source is out of the country for an extended period of time, or on an extended vacation, seriously ill, deceased, or for any other reason, the consultative examination will be rescheduled with another medical source:
(1) Denial; or
(2) Cessation; or
(3) Allowance of a period of disability which has ended; or
(4) Allowance with an onset date later than alleged.
[56 FR 36958, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11877, Mar. 7, 2000]
§ 404.1519p
Reviewing reports of consultative examinations.
(a) We will review the report of the consultative examination to determine whether the specific information requested has been furnished. We will consider the following factors in reviewing the report:
(1) Whether the report provides evidence which serves as an adequate basis for decisionmaking in terms of the impairment it assesses;
(2) Whether the report is internally consistent; Whether all the diseases, impairments and complaints described in the history are adequately assessed and reported in the clinical findings; Whether the conclusions correlate the findings from your medical history, clinical examination and laboratory tests and explain all abnormalities;
(3) Whether the report is consistent with the other information available to us within the specialty of the examination requested; Whether the report fails to mention an important or relevant complaint within that specialty that is noted in other evidence in the file (e.g., your blindness in one eye, amputations, pain, alcoholism, depression);
(4) Whether this is an adequate report of examination as compared to standards set out in the course of a medical education; and
(5) Whether the report is properly signed.
(b) If the report is inadequate or incomplete, we will contact the medical source who performed the consultative examination, give an explanation of our evidentiary needs, and ask that the medical source furnish the missing information or prepare a revised report.
(c) With your permission, or when the examination discloses new diagnostic information or test results that reveal a potentially life-threatening situation, we will refer the consultative examination report to your treating source. When we refer the consultative examination report to your treating source without your permission, we will notify you that we have done so.
(d) We will perform ongoing special management studies on the quality of consultative examinations purchased from major medical sources and the appropriateness of the examinations authorized.
(e) We will take steps to ensure that consultative examinations are scheduled only with medical sources who have access to the equipment required to provide an adequate assessment and record of the existence and level of severity of your alleged impairments.
[56 FR 36959, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11877, Mar. 7, 2000]
§ 404.1519q
Conflict of interest.
All implications of possible conflict of interest between medical or psychological consultants and their medical or psychological practices will be avoided. Such consultants are not only those physicians and psychologists who work for us directly but are also those who do review and adjudication work in the State agencies. Physicians and psychologists who work for us directly as employees or under contract will not work concurrently for a State agency. Physicians and psychologists
who do review work for us will not perform consultative examinations for us without our prior approval. In such situations, the physician or psychologist will disassociate himself or herself from further involvement in the case and will not participate in the evaluation, decision, or appeal actions. In addition, neither they, nor any member of their families, will acquire or maintain, either directly or indirectly, any financial interest in a medical partnership, corporation, or similar relationship in which consultative examinations are provided. Sometimes physicians and psychologists who do review work for us will have prior knowledge of a case; for example, when the claimant was a patient. Where this is so, the physician or psychologist will not participate in the review or determination of the case. This does not preclude the physician or psychologist from submitting medical evidence based on treatment or examination of the claimant.
[56 FR 36959, Aug. 1, 1991]

# Authorizing and Monitoring the Referral Process
§ 404.1519s
Authorizing and monitoring the consultative examination.
(a) Day-to-day responsibility for the consultative examination process rests with the State agencies that make disability determinations for us.
(b) The State agency will maintain a good working relationship with the medical community in order to recruit sufficient numbers of physicians and other providers of medical services to ensure ready availability of consultative examination providers.
(c) Consistent with Federal and State laws, the State agency administrator will work to achieve appropriate rates of payment for purchased medical services.
(d) Each State agency will be responsible for comprehensive oversight management of its consultative examination program, with special emphasis on key providers.
(e) A key consultative examination provider is a provider that meets at least one of the following conditions:
(1) Any consultative examination provider with an estimated annual billing to the disability programs we administer of at least $150,000; or
(2) Any consultative examination provider with a practice directed primarily towards evaluation examinations rather than the treatment of patients; or
(3) Any consultative examination provider that does not meet the above criteria, but is one of the top five consultative examination providers in the State by dollar volume, as evidenced by prior year data.
(f) State agencies have flexibility in managing their consultative examination programs, but at a minimum will provide:
(1) An ongoing active recruitment program for consultative examination providers;
(2) A process for orientation, training, and review of new consultative examination providers, with respect to SSA's program requirements involving consultative examination report content and not with respect to medical techniques;
(3) Procedures for control of scheduling consultative examinations;
(4) Procedures to ensure that close attention is given to specific evaluation issues involved in each case;
(5) Procedures to ensure that only required examinations and tests are authorized in accordance with the standards set forth in this subpart;
(6) Procedures for providing medical or supervisory approval for the authorization or purchase of consultative examinations and for additional tests or studies requested by consulting medical sources. This includes physician approval for the ordering of any diagnostic test or procedure where the question of significant risk to the claimant/beneficiary might be raised. See § 404.1519m.
(7) Procedures for the ongoing review of consultative examination results to ensure compliance with written guidelines;
(8) Procedures to encourage active participation by physicians in the consultative examination oversight program;
(9) Procedures for handling complaints;
(10) Procedures for evaluating claimant reactions to key providers; and
(11) A program of systematic, onsite reviews of key providers that will include annual onsite reviews of such providers when claimants are present for examinations. This provision does not contemplate that such reviews will involve participation in the actual examinations but, rather, offer an opportunity to talk with claimants at the provider's site before and after the examination and to review the provider's overall operation.
(g) The State agencies will cooperate with us when we conduct monitoring activities in connection with their oversight management of their consultative examination programs.
[56 FR 36959, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11877, Mar. 7, 2000; 71 FR 16444, Mar. 31, 2006; 75 FR 32846, June 10, 2010; 76 FR 24806, May 3, 2011]

# Procedures To Monitor the Consultative Examination
§ 404.1519t
Consultative examination oversight.
(a) We will ensure that referrals for consultative examinations and purchases of consultative examinations are made in accordance with our policies. We will also monitor both the referral processes and the product of the consultative examinations obtained. This monitoring may include reviews by independent medical specialists under direct contract with SSA.
(b) Through our regional offices, we will undertake periodic comprehensive reviews of each State agency to evaluate each State's management of the consultative examination process. The review will involve visits to key providers, with State staff participating, including a program physician when the visit will deal with medical techniques or judgment, or factors that go to the core of medical professionalism.
(c) We will also perform ongoing special management studies of the quality of consultative examinations purchased from key providers and other sources and the appropriateness of the examinations authorized.
[56 FR 36960, Aug. 1, 1991]

# Evaluation of Disability
§ 404.1520
Evaluation of disability in general.
(a)
General
—(1)
Purpose of this section.
This section explains the five-step sequential evaluation process we use to decide whether you are disabled, as defined in § 404.1505.
(2)
Applicability of these rules.
These rules apply to you if you file an application for a period of disability or disability insurance benefits (or both) or for child's insurance benefits based on disability. They also apply if you file an application for widow's or widower's benefits based on disability for months after December 1990. (
See
§ 404.1505(a).)
(3)
Evidence considered.
We will consider all evidence in your case record when we make a determination or decision whether you are disabled. See § 404.1520b.
(4)
The five-step sequential evaluation process.
The sequential evaluation process is a series of five “steps” that we follow in a set order. See paragraph (h) of this section for an exception to this rule. If we can find that you are disabled or not disabled at a step, we make our determination or decision and we do not go on to the next step. If we cannot find that you are disabled or not disabled at a step, we go on to the next step. Before we go from step three to step four, we assess your residual functional capacity. (
See
paragraph (e) of this section.) We use this residual functional capacity assessment at both step four and step five when we evaluate your claim at these steps. These are the five steps we follow:
(i) At the first step, we consider your work activity, if any. If you are doing substantial gainful activity, we will find that you are not disabled. (
See
paragraph (b) of this section.)
(ii) At the second step, we consider the medical severity of your impairment(s). If you do not have a severe medically determinable physical or mental impairment that meets the duration requirement in § 404.1509, or a combination of impairments that is severe and meets the duration requirement, we will find that you are not disabled. (
See
paragraph (c) of this section.)
(iii) At the third step, we also consider the medical severity of your impairment(s). If you have an impairment(s) that meets or equals one of our listings in appendix 1 of this subpart and meets the duration requirement, we will find that you are disabled. (
See
paragraph (d) of this section.)
(iv) At the fourth step, we consider our assessment of your residual functional capacity and your past relevant work. If you can still do your past relevant work, we will find that you are not disabled. See paragraphs (f) and (h) of this section and § 404.1560(b).
(v) At the fifth and last step, we consider our assessment of your residual functional capacity and your age, education, and work experience to see if you can make an adjustment to other work. If you can make an adjustment to other work, we will find that you are not disabled. If you cannot make an adjustment to other work, we will find that you are disabled. See paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section and § 404.1560(c).
(5)
When you are already receiving disability benefits.
If you are already receiving disability benefits, we will use a different sequential evaluation process to decide whether you continue to be disabled. We explain this process in § 404.1594(f).
(b)
If you are working.
If you are working and the work you are doing is substantial gainful activity, we will find that you are not disabled regardless of your medical condition or your age, education, and work experience.
(c)
You must have a severe impairment.
If you do not have any impairment or combination of impairments which significantly limits your physical or mental ability to do basic work activities, we will find that you do not have a severe impairment and are, therefore, not disabled. We will not consider your age, education, and work experience. However, it is possible for you to have a period of disability for a time in the past even though you do not now have a severe impairment.
(d)
When your impairment(s) meets or equals a listed impairment in appendix 1.
If you have an impairment(s) which meets the duration requirement and is listed in appendix 1 or is equal to a listed impairment(s), we will find you disabled without considering your age, education, and work experience.
(e)
When your impairment(s) does not meet or equal a listed impairment.
If your impairment(s) does not meet or equal a listed impairment, we will assess and make a finding about your residual functional capacity based on all the relevant medical and other evidence in your case record, as explained in § 404.1545. (See paragraph (g)(2) of this section and § 404.1562 for an exception to this rule.) We use our residual functional capacity assessment at the fourth step of the sequential evaluation process to determine if you can do your past relevant work (paragraph (f) of this section) and at the fifth step of the sequential evaluation process (if the evaluation proceeds to this step) to determine if you can adjust to other work (paragraph (g) of this section).
(f)
Your impairment(s) must prevent you from doing your past relevant work.
If we cannot make a determination or decision at the first three steps of the sequential evaluation process, we will compare our residual functional capacity assessment, which we made under paragraph (e) of this section, with the physical and mental demands of your past relevant work. See paragraph (h) of this section and § 404.1560(b). If you can still do this kind of work, we will find that you are not disabled.
(g)
Your impairment(s) must prevent you from making an adjustment to any other work.
(1) If we find that you cannot do your past relevant work because you have a severe impairment(s) (or you do not have any past relevant work), we will consider the same residual functional capacity assessment we made under paragraph (e) of this section, together with your vocational factors (your age, education, and work experience) to determine if you can make an adjustment to other work. (See § 404.1560(c).) If you can make an adjustment to other work, we will find you not disabled. If you cannot, we will find you disabled.
(2) We use different rules if you meet one of the two special medical-vocational profiles described in § 404.1562. If you meet one of those profiles, we will find that you cannot make an adjustment to other work, and that you are disabled.
(h)
Expedited process.
If we do not find you disabled at the third step, and we do not have sufficient evidence about your past relevant work to make a finding at the fourth step, we may proceed to the fifth step of the sequential evaluation process. If we find that you can adjust to other work based solely on your age, education, and the same residual functional capacity assessment we made under paragraph (e) of this section, we will find that you are not disabled and will not make a finding about whether you can do your past relevant work at the fourth step. If we find that you may be unable to adjust to other work or if § 404.1562 may apply, we will assess your claim at the fourth step and make a finding about whether you can perform your past relevant work. See paragraph (g) of this section and § 404.1560(c).
[50 FR 8727, Mar. 5, 1985; 50 FR 19164, May 7, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 36960, Aug. 1, 1991; 65 FR 80308, Dec. 21, 2000; 68 FR 51161, Aug. 26, 2003; 77 FR 10655, Feb. 23, 2012; 77 FR 43494, July 25, 2012]
§ 404.1520a
Evaluation of mental impairments.
(a)
General.
The steps outlined in § 404.1520 apply to the evaluation of physical and mental impairments. In addition, when we evaluate the severity of mental impairments for adults (persons age 18 and over) and in persons under age 18 when Part A of the Listing of Impairments is used, we must follow a special technique at each level in the administrative review process. We describe this special technique in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. Using the technique helps us:
(1) Identify the need for additional evidence to determine impairment severity;
(2) Consider and evaluate functional consequences of the mental disorder(s) relevant to your ability to work; and
(3) Organize and present our findings in a clear, concise, and consistent manner.
(b)
Use of the technique.
(1) Under the special technique, we must first evaluate your pertinent symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings to determine whether you have a medically determinable mental impairment(s). See § 404.1521 for more information about what is needed to show a medically determinable impairment. If we determine that you have a medically determinable mental impairment(s), we must specify the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings that substantiate the presence of the impairment(s) and document our findings in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) We must then rate the degree of functional limitation resulting from the impairment(s) in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and record our findings as set out in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Rating the degree of functional limitation.
(1) Assessment of functional limitations is a complex and highly individualized process that requires us to consider multiple issues and all relevant evidence to obtain a longitudinal picture of your overall degree of functional limitation. We will consider all relevant and available clinical signs and laboratory findings, the effects of your symptoms, and how your functioning may be affected by factors including, but not limited to, chronic mental disorders, structured settings, medication, and other treatment.
(2) We will rate the degree of your functional limitation based on the extent to which your impairment(s) interferes with your ability to function independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis. Thus, we will consider such factors as the quality and level of your overall functional performance, any episodic limitations, the amount of supervision or assistance you require, and the settings in which you are able to function. See 12.00C through 12.00H of the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 to this subpart for more information about the factors we consider when we rate the degree of your functional limitation.
(3) We have identified four broad functional areas in which we will rate the degree of your functional limitation: Understand, remember, or apply information; interact with others; concentrate, persist, or maintain pace; and adapt or manage oneself. See 12.00E of the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 to this subpart.
(4) When we rate your degree of limitation in these areas (understand, remember, or apply information; interact
with others; concentrate, persist, or maintain pace; and adapt or manage oneself), we will use the following five-point scale: None, mild, moderate, marked, and extreme. The last point on the scale represents a degree of limitation that is incompatible with the ability to do any gainful activity.
(d)
Use of the technique to evaluate mental impairments.
After we rate the degree of functional limitation resulting from your impairment(s), we will determine the severity of your mental impairment(s).
(1) If we rate the degrees of your limitation as “none” or “mild,” we will generally conclude that your impairment(s) is not severe, unless the evidence otherwise indicates that there is more than a minimal limitation in your ability to do basic work activities (see § 404.1522).
(2) If your mental impairment(s) is severe, we will then determine if it meets or is equivalent in severity to a listed mental disorder. We do this by comparing the medical findings about your impairment(s) and the rating of the degree of functional limitation to the criteria of the appropriate listed mental disorder. We will record the presence or absence of the criteria and the rating of the degree of functional limitation on a standard document at the initial and reconsideration levels of the administrative review process, or in the decision at the administrative law judge hearing and Appeals Council levels (in cases in which the Appeals Council issues a decision). See paragraph (e) of this section.
(3) If we find that you have a severe mental impairment(s) that neither meets nor is equivalent in severity to any listing, we will then assess your residual functional capacity.
(e)
Documenting application of the technique.
At the initial and reconsideration levels of the administrative review process, we will complete a standard document to record how we applied the technique. At the administrative law judge hearing and Appeals Council levels (in cases in which the Appeals Council issues a decision), we will document application of the technique in the decision. The following rules apply:
(1) When a State agency medical or psychological consultant makes the determination together with a State agency disability examiner at the initial or reconsideration level of the administrative review process as provided in § 404.1615(c)(1) of this part, the State agency medical or psychological consultant has overall responsibility for assessing medical severity. A State agency disability examiner may assist in preparing the standard document. However, our medical or psychological consultant must review and sign the document to attest that it is complete and that he or she is responsible for its content, including the findings of fact and any discussion of supporting evidence.
(2) When a State agency disability examiner makes the determination alone as provided in § 404.1615(c)(3), the State agency disability examiner has overall responsibility for assessing medical severity and for completing and signing the standard document.
(3) When a disability hearing officer makes a reconsideration determination as provided in § 404.1615(c)(4), the determination must document application of the technique, incorporating the disability hearing officer's pertinent findings and conclusions based on this technique.
(4) At the administrative law judge hearing and Appeals Council levels, the written decision must incorporate the pertinent findings and conclusions based on the technique. The decision must show the significant history, including examination and laboratory findings, and the functional limitations that were considered in reaching a conclusion about the severity of the mental impairment(s). The decision must include a specific finding as to the degree of limitation in each of the functional areas described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) If the administrative law judge requires the services of a medical expert to assist in applying the technique but such services are unavailable, the administrative law judge may return the case to the State agency or the appropriate Federal component, using the rules in § 404.941 of this part, for completion of the standard document. If, after reviewing the case file and completing the standard document, the State agency or Federal component
concludes that a determination favorable to you is warranted, it will process the case using the rules found in § 404.941(d) or (e) of this part. If, after reviewing the case file and completing the standard document, the State agency or Federal component concludes that a determination favorable to you is not warranted, it will send the completed standard document and the case to the administrative law judge for further proceedings and a decision.
[65 FR 50774, Aug. 21, 2000; 65 FR 60584, Oct. 12, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 16444, Mar. 31, 2006; 75 FR 62680, Oct. 13, 2010; 76 FR 24806, May 3, 2011; 81 FR 66160, Sept. 26, 2016; 82 FR 5867. Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1520b
How we consider evidence.
After we review all of the evidence relevant to your claim, we make findings about what the evidence shows.
(a)
Complete and consistent evidence.
If all of the evidence we receive, including all medical opinion(s), is consistent and there is sufficient evidence for us to determine whether you are disabled, we will make our determination or decision based on that evidence.
(b)
Incomplete or inconsistent evidence.
In some situations, we may not be able to make our determination or decision because the evidence in your case record is insufficient or inconsistent. We consider evidence to be insufficient when it does not contain all the information we need to make our determination or decision. We consider evidence to be inconsistent when it conflicts with other evidence, contains an internal conflict, is ambiguous, or when the medical evidence does not appear to be based on medically acceptable clinical or laboratory diagnostic techniques. If the evidence in your case record is insufficient or inconsistent, we may need to take the additional actions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) If any of the evidence in your case record, including any medical opinion(s) and prior administrative medical findings, is inconsistent, we will consider the relevant evidence and see if we can determine whether you are disabled based on the evidence we have.
(2) If the evidence is consistent but we have insufficient evidence to determine whether you are disabled, or if after considering the evidence we determine we cannot reach a conclusion about whether you are disabled, we will determine the best way to resolve the inconsistency or insufficiency. The action(s) we take will depend on the nature of the inconsistency or insufficiency. We will try to resolve the inconsistency or insufficiency by taking any one or more of the actions listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iv) of this section. We might not take all of the actions listed below. We will consider any additional evidence we receive together with the evidence we already have.
(i) We may recontact your medical source. We may choose not to seek additional evidence or clarification from a medical source if we know from experience that the source either cannot or will not provide the necessary evidence. If we obtain medical evidence over the telephone, we will send the telephone report to the source for review, signature, and return;
(ii) We may request additional existing evidence;
(iii) We may ask you to undergo a consultative examination at our expense (see §§ 404.1517 through 404.1519t); or
(iv) We may ask you or others for more information.
(3) When there are inconsistencies in the evidence that we cannot resolve or when, despite efforts to obtain additional evidence, the evidence is insufficient to determine whether you are disabled, we will make a determination or decision based on the evidence we have.
(c)
Evidence that is inherently neither valuable nor persuasive.
Paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) apply in claims filed (see § 404.614) on or after March 27, 2017. Because the evidence listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section is inherently neither valuable nor persuasive to the issue of whether you are disabled or blind under the Act, we will not provide any analysis about how we considered such evidence in our determination or decision, even under § 404.1520c:
(1)
Decisions by other governmental agencies and nongovernmental entities.
See § 404.1504.
(2)
Disability examiner findings.
Findings made by a State agency disability examiner made at a previous level of adjudication about a medical issue, vocational issue, or the ultimate determination about whether you are disabled.
(3)
Statements on issues reserved to the Commissioner.
The statements listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(viii) of this section would direct our determination or decision that you are or are not disabled or blind within the meaning of the Act, but we are responsible for making the determination or decision about whether you are disabled or blind:
(i) Statements that you are or are not disabled, blind, able to work, or able to perform regular or continuing work;
(ii) Statements about whether or not you have a severe impairment(s);
(iii) Statements about whether or not your impairment(s) meets the duration requirement (see § 404.1509);
(iv) Statements about whether or not your impairment(s) meets or medically equals any listing in the Listing of Impairments in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 1;
(v) Statements about what your residual functional capacity is using our programmatic terms about the functional exertional levels in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 2, Rule 200.00 instead of descriptions about your functional abilities and limitations (see § 404.1545);
(vi) Statements about whether or not your residual functional capacity prevents you from doing past relevant work (see § 404.1560);
(vii) Statements that you do or do not meet the requirements of a medical-vocational rule in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 2; and
(viii) Statements about whether or not your disability continues or ends when we conduct a continuing disability review (see § 404.1594).
[82 FR 5867, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1520c
How we consider and articulate medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings for claims filed on or after March 27, 2017.
For claims filed (see § 404.614) on or after March 27, 2017, the rules in this section apply. For claims filed before March 27, 2017, the rules in § 404.1527 apply.
(a)
How we consider medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings.
We will not defer or give any specific evidentiary weight, including controlling weight, to any medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s), including those from your medical sources. When a medical source provides one or more medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings, we will consider those medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings from that medical source together using the factors listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section, as appropriate. The most important factors we consider when we evaluate the persuasiveness of medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings are supportability (paragraph (c)(1) of this section) and consistency (paragraph (c)(2) of this section). We will articulate how we considered the medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings in your claim according to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
How we articulate our consideration of medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings.
We will articulate in our determination or decision how persuasive we find all of the medical opinions and all of the prior administrative medical findings in your case record. Our articulation requirements are as follows:
(1)
Source-level articulation.
Because many claims have voluminous case records containing many types of evidence from different sources, it is not administratively feasible for us to articulate in each determination or decision how we considered all of the factors for all of the medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings in your case record. Instead, when a medical source provides multiple medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s), we will articulate
how we considered the medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings from that medical source together in a single analysis using the factors listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section, as appropriate. We are not required to articulate how we considered each medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding from one medical source individually.
(2)
Most important factors.
The factors of supportability (paragraph (c)(1) of this section) and consistency (paragraph (c)(2) of this section) are the most important factors we consider when we determine how persuasive we find a medical source's medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings to be. Therefore, we will explain how we considered the supportability and consistency factors for a medical source's medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings in your determination or decision. We may, but are not required to, explain how we considered the factors in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(5) of this section, as appropriate, when we articulate how we consider medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings in your case record.
(3)
Equally persuasive medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings about the same issue.
When we find that two or more medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings about the same issue are both equally well-supported (paragraph (c)(1) of this section) and consistent with the record (paragraph (c)(2) of this section) but are not exactly the same, we will articulate how we considered the other most persuasive factors in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(5) of this section for those medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings in your determination or decision.
(c)
Factors.
We will consider the following factors when we consider the medical opinion(s) and prior administrative medical finding(s) in your case:
(1)
Supportability.
The more relevant the objective medical evidence and supporting explanations presented by a medical source are to support his or her medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s), the more persuasive the medical opinions or prior administrative medical finding(s) will be.
(2)
Consistency.
The more consistent a medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s) is with the evidence from other medical sources and nonmedical sources in the claim, the more persuasive the medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s) will be.
(3)
Relationship with the claimant.
This factor combines consideration of the issues in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i)
Length of the treatment relationship.
The length of time a medical source has treated you may help demonstrate whether the medical source has a longitudinal understanding of your impairment(s).
(ii)
Frequency of examinations.
The frequency of your visits with the medical source may help demonstrate whether the medical source has a longitudinal understanding of your impairment(s).
(iii)
Purpose of the treatment relationship.
The purpose for treatment you received from the medical source may help demonstrate the level of knowledge the medical source has of your impairment(s).
(iv)
Extent of the treatment relationship.
The kinds and extent of examinations and testing the medical source has performed or ordered from specialists or independent laboratories may help demonstrate the level of knowledge the medical source has of your impairment(s).
(v)
Examining relationship.
A medical source may have a better understanding of your impairment(s) if he or she examines you than if the medical source only reviews evidence in your folder.
(4)
Specialization.
The medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding of a medical source who has received advanced education and training to become a specialist may be more persuasive about medical issues related to his or her area of specialty than the medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding of a medical source who is not a specialist in the relevant area of specialty.
(5)
Other factors.
We will consider other factors that tend to support or
contradict a medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding. This includes, but is not limited to, evidence showing a medical source has familiarity with the other evidence in the claim or an understanding of our disability program's policies and evidentiary requirements. When we consider a medical source's familiarity with the other evidence in a claim, we will also consider whether new evidence we receive after the medical source made his or her medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding makes the medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding more or less persuasive.
(d)
Evidence from nonmedical sources.
We are not required to articulate how we considered evidence from nonmedical sources using the requirements in paragraphs (a)-(c) in this section.
[82 FR 5867, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1521
Establishing that you have a medically determinable impairment(s).
If you are not doing substantial gainful activity, we will then determine whether you have a medically determinable physical or mental impairment(s) (see § 404.1520(a)(4)(ii)). Your impairment(s) must result from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities that can be shown by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques. Therefore, a physical or mental impairment must be established by objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source. We will not use your statement of symptoms, a diagnosis, or a medical opinion to establish the existence of an impairment(s). After we establish that you have a medically determinable impairment(s), then we determine whether your impairment(s) is severe.
[82 FR 5868, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1522
What we mean by an impairment(s) that is not severe.
(a)
Non-severe impairment(s).
An impairment or combination of impairments is not severe if it does not significantly limit your physical or mental ability to do basic work activities.
(b)
Basic work activities.
When we talk about basic work activities, we mean the abilities and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs. Examples of these include—
(1) Physical functions such as walking, standing, sitting, lifting, pushing, pulling, reaching, carrying, or handling;
(2) Capacities for seeing, hearing, and speaking;
(3) Understanding, carrying out, and remembering simple instructions;
(4) Use of judgment;
(5) Responding appropriately to supervision, co-workers and usual work situations; and
(6) Dealing with changes in a routine work setting.
[82 FR 5869, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1523
Multiple impairments.
(a)
Unrelated severe impairments.
We cannot combine two or more unrelated severe impairments to meet the 12-month duration test. If you have a severe impairment(s) and then develop another unrelated severe impairment(s) but neither one is expected to last for 12 months, we cannot find you disabled, even though the two impairments in combination last for 12 months.
(b)
Concurrent impairments.
If you have two or more concurrent impairments that, when considered in combination, are severe, we must determine whether the combined effect of your impairments can be expected to continue to be severe for 12 months. If one or more of your impairments improves or is expected to improve within 12 months, so that the combined effect of your remaining impairments is no longer severe, we will find that you do not meet the 12-month duration test.
(c)
Combined effect.
In determining whether your physical or mental impairment or impairments are of a sufficient medical severity that such impairment or impairments could be the basis of eligibility under the law, we will consider the combined effect of all of your impairments without regard to whether any such impairment, if considered separately, would be of sufficient severity. If we do find a medically severe combination of impairments, we will consider the combined
impact of the impairments throughout the disability determination process. If we do not find that you have a medically severe combination of impairments, we will determine that you are not disabled (see § 404.1520).
[82 FR 5869, Jan. 18, 2017]

# Medical Considerations
§ 404.1525
Listing of Impairments in appendix 1.
(a)
What is the purpose of the Listing of Impairments?
The Listing of Impairments (the listings) is in appendix 1 of this subpart. It describes for each of the major body systems impairments that we consider to be severe enough to prevent an individual from doing any gainful activity, regardless of his or her age, education, or work experience.
(b)
How is appendix 1 organized?
There are two parts in appendix 1:
(1)
Part A
contains criteria that apply to individuals age 18 and over. We may also use part A for individuals who are under age 18 if the disease processes have a similar effect on adults and children.
(2)
Part B
contains criteria that apply only to individuals who are under age 18; we never use the listings in part B to evaluate individuals who are age 18 or older. In evaluating disability for a person under age 18, we use part B first. If the criteria in part B do not apply, we may use the criteria in part A when those criteria give appropriate consideration to the effects of the impairment(s) in children. To the extent possible, we number the provisions in part B to maintain a relationship with their counterparts in part A.
(c)
How do we use the listings?
(1) Most body system sections in parts A and B of appendix 1 are in two parts: an introduction, followed by the specific listings.
(2) The introduction to each body system contains information relevant to the use of the listings in that body system; for example, examples of common impairments in the body system and definitions used in the listings for that body system. We may also include specific criteria for establishing a diagnosis, confirming the existence of an impairment, or establishing that your impairment(s) satisfies the criteria of a particular listing in the body system. Even if we do not include specific criteria for establishing a diagnosis or confirming the existence of your impairment, you must still show that you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s), as defined in § 404.1521.
(3) In most cases, the specific listings follow the introduction in each body system, after the heading,
Category of Impairments.
Within each listing, we specify the objective medical and other findings needed to satisfy the criteria of that listing. We will find that your impairment(s) meets the requirements of a listing when it satisfies all of the criteria of that listing, including any relevant criteria in the introduction, and meets the duration requirement (see § 404.1509).
(4) Most of the listed impairments are permanent or expected to result in death. For some listings, we state a specific period of time for which your impairment(s) will meet the listing. For all others, the evidence must show that your impairment(s) has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
(5) If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of a listing, it can medically equal the criteria of a listing. We explain our rules for medical equivalence in § 404.1526. We use the listings only to find that you are disabled or still disabled. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal the criteria of a listing, we may find that you are disabled or still disabled at a later step in the sequential evaluation process.
(d)
Can your impairment(s) meet a listing based only on a diagnosis?
No. Your impairment(s) cannot meet the criteria of a listing based only on a diagnosis. To meet the requirements of a listing, you must have a medically determinable impairment(s) that satisfies all of the criteria in the listing.
(e)
How do we consider your symptoms when we determine whether your impairment(s) meets a listing?
Some listed impairments include symptoms, such as pain, as criteria. Section 404.1529(d)(2)
explains how we consider your symptoms when your symptoms are included as criteria in a listing.
[71 FR 10428, Mar. 1, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 19696, Apr. 8, 2011; 82 FR 5868, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1526
Medical equivalence.
(a)
What is medical equivalence?
Your impairment(s) is medically equivalent to a listed impairment in appendix 1 if it is at least equal in severity and duration to the criteria of any listed impairment.
(b)
How do we determine medical equivalence?
We can find medical equivalence in three ways.
(1)(i) If you have an impairment that is described in appendix 1, but —
(A) You do not exhibit one or more of the findings specified in the particular listing, or
(B) You exhibit all of the findings, but one or more of the findings is not as severe as specified in the particular listing,
(ii) We will find that your impairment is medically equivalent to that listing if you have other findings related to your impairment that are at least of equal medical significance to the required criteria.
(2) If you have an impairment(s) that is not described in appendix 1, we will compare your findings with those for closely analogous listed impairments. If the findings related to your impairment(s) are at least of equal medical significance to those of a listed impairment, we will find that your impairment(s) is medically equivalent to the analogous listing.
(3) If you have a combination of impairments, no one of which meets a listing (see § 404.1525(c)(3)), we will compare your findings with those for closely analogous listed impairments. If the findings related to your impairments are at least of equal medical significance to those of a listed impairment, we will find that your combination of impairments is medically equivalent to that listing.
(4) Section 404.1529(d)(3) explains how we consider your symptoms, such as pain, when we make findings about medical equivalence.
(c)
What evidence do we consider when we determine if your impairment(s) medically equals a listing?
When we determine if your impairment medically equals a listing, we consider all evidence in your case record about your impairment(s) and its effects on you that is relevant to this finding. We do not consider your vocational factors of age, education, and work experience (see, for example, § 404.1560(c)(1)). We also consider the opinion given by one or more medical or psychological consultants designated by the Commissioner. (See § 404.1616.)
(d)
Who is a designated medical or psychological consultant?
A medical or psychological consultant designated by the Commissioner includes any medical or psychological consultant employed or engaged to make medical judgments by the Social Security Administration, the Railroad Retirement Board, or a State agency authorized to make disability determinations. See § 404.1616 for the necessary qualifications for medical consultants and psychological consultants.
(e)
Who is responsible for determining medical equivalence?
(1) In cases where the State agency or other designee of the Commissioner makes the initial or reconsideration disability determination, a State agency medical or psychological consultant or other designee of the Commissioner (see § 404.1616 of this part) has the overall responsibility for determining medical equivalence.
(2) For cases in the disability hearing process or otherwise decided by a disability hearing officer, the responsibility for determining medical equivalence rests with either the disability hearing officer or, if the disability hearing officer's reconsideration determination is changed under § 404.918 of this part, with the Associate Commissioner for Disability Policy or his or her delegate.
(3) For cases at the administrative law judge or Appeals Council level, the responsibility for deciding medical
equivalence rests with the administrative law judge or Appeals Council.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 33926, Sept. 9, 1987; 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 65 FR 34957, June 1, 2000; 71 FR 10429, Mar. 1, 2006; 71 FR 16445, Mar. 31, 2006; 71 FR 57415, Sept. 29, 2006; 76 FR 24807, May 3, 2011; 82 FR 5869, Jan. 18, 2017; 82 FR 15132, Mar. 27, 2017]
§ 404.1527
Evaluating opinion evidence for claims filed before March 27, 2017.
For claims filed (see § 404.614) before March 27, 2017, the rules in this section apply. For claims filed on or after March 27, 2017, the rules in § 404.1520c apply.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Medical opinions.
Medical opinions are statements from acceptable medical sources that reflect judgments about the nature and severity of your impairment(s), including your symptoms, diagnosis and prognosis, what you can still do despite impairment(s), and your physical or mental restrictions.
(2)
Treating source.
Treating source means your own acceptable medical source who provides you, or has provided you, with medical treatment or evaluation and who has, or has had, an ongoing treatment relationship with you. Generally, we will consider that you have an ongoing treatment relationship with an acceptable medical source when the medical evidence establishes that you see, or have seen, the source with a frequency consistent with accepted medical practice for the type of treatment and/or evaluation required for your medical condition(s). We may consider an acceptable medical source who has treated or evaluated you only a few times or only after long intervals (e.g., twice a year) to be your treating source if the nature and frequency of the treatment or evaluation is typical for your condition(s). We will not consider an acceptable medical source to be your treating source if your relationship with the source is not based on your medical need for treatment or evaluation, but solely on your need to obtain a report in support of your claim for disability. In such a case, we will consider the acceptable medical source to be a nontreating source.
(b)
How we consider medical opinions.
In determining whether you are disabled, we will always consider the medical opinions in your case record together with the rest of the relevant evidence we receive. See § 404.1520b.
(c)
How we weigh medical opinions.
Regardless of its source, we will evaluate every medical opinion we receive. Unless we give a treating source's medical opinion controlling weight under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, we consider all of the following factors in deciding the weight we give to any medical opinion.
(1)
Examining relationship.
Generally, we give more weight to the medical opinion of a source who has examined you than to the medical opinion of a medical source who has not examined you.
(2)
Treatment relationship.
Generally, we give more weight to medical opinions from your treating sources, since these sources are likely to be the medical professionals most able to provide a detailed, longitudinal picture of your medical impairment(s) and may bring a unique perspective to the medical evidence that cannot be obtained from the objective medical findings alone or from reports of individual examinations, such as consultative examinations or brief hospitalizations. If we find that a treating source's medical opinion on the issue(s) of the nature and severity of your impairment(s) is well-supported by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques and is not inconsistent with the other substantial evidence in your case record, we will give it controlling weight. When we do not give the treating source's medical opinion controlling weight, we apply the factors listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section, as well as the factors in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(6) of this section in determining the weight to give the medical opinion. We will always give good reasons in our notice of determination or decision for the weight we give your treating source's medical opinion.
(i)
Length of the treatment relationship and the frequency of examination.
Generally, the longer a treating source has treated you and the more times you have been seen by a treating source,
the more weight we will give to the source's medical opinion. When the treating source has seen you a number of times and long enough to have obtained a longitudinal picture of your impairment, we will give the medical source's medical opinion more weight than we would give it if it were from a nontreating source.
(ii)
Nature and extent of the treatment relationship.
Generally, the more knowledge a treating source has about your impairment(s) the more weight we will give to the source's medical opinion. We will look at the treatment the source has provided and at the kinds and extent of examinations and testing the source has performed or ordered from specialists and independent laboratories. For example, if your ophthalmologist notices that you have complained of neck pain during your eye examinations, we will consider his or her medical opinion with respect to your neck pain, but we will give it less weight than that of another physician who has treated you for the neck pain. When the treating source has reasonable knowledge of your impairment(s), we will give the source's medical opinion more weight than we would give it if it were from a nontreating source.
(3)
Supportability.
The more a medical source presents relevant evidence to support a medical opinion, particularly medical signs and laboratory findings, the more weight we will give that medical opinion. The better an explanation a source provides for a medical opinion, the more weight we will give that medical opinion. Furthermore, because nonexamining sources have no examining or treating relationship with you, the weight we will give their medical opinions will depend on the degree to which they provide supporting explanations for their medical opinions. We will evaluate the degree to which these medical opinions consider all of the pertinent evidence in your claim, including medical opinions of treating and other examining sources.
(4)
Consistency.
Generally, the more consistent a medical opinion is with the record as a whole, the more weight we will give to that medical opinion.
(5)
Specialization.
We generally give more weight to the medical opinion of a specialist about medical issues related to his or her area of specialty than to the medical opinion of a source who is not a specialist.
(6)
Other factors.
When we consider how much weight to give to a medical opinion, we will also consider any factors you or others bring to our attention, or of which we are aware, which tend to support or contradict the medical opinion. For example, the amount of understanding of our disability programs and their evidentiary requirements that a medical source has, regardless of the source of that understanding, and the extent to which a medical source is familiar with the other information in your case record are relevant factors that we will consider in deciding the weight to give to a medical opinion.
(d)
Medical source opinions on issues reserved to the Commissioner.
Opinions on some issues, such as the examples that follow, are not medical opinions, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but are, instead, opinions on issues reserved to the Commissioner because they are administrative findings that are dispositive of a case;
i.e.,
that would direct the determination or decision of disability.
(1)
Opinions that you are disabled.
We are responsible for making the determination or decision about whether you meet the statutory definition of disability. In so doing, we review all of the medical findings and other evidence that support a medical source's statement that you are disabled. A statement by a medical source that you are “disabled” or “unable to work” does not mean that we will determine that you are disabled.
(2)
Other opinions on issues reserved to the Commissioner.
We use medical sources, including your treating source, to provide evidence, including opinions, on the nature and severity of your impairment(s). Although we consider opinions from medical sources on issues such as whether your impairment(s) meets or equals the requirements of any impairment(s) in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 to this subpart, your residual functional capacity (see §§ 404.1545 and 404.1546), or the application of vocational factors, the final responsibility
for deciding these issues is reserved to the Commissioner.
(3) We will not give any special significance to the source of an opinion on issues reserved to the Commissioner described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Evidence from our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants.
The rules in § 404.1513a apply except that when an administrative law judge gives controlling weight to a treating source's medical opinion, the administrative law judge is not required to explain in the decision the weight he or she gave to the prior administrative medical findings in the claim.
(f)
Opinions from medical sources who are not acceptable medical sources and from nonmedical sources.
(1)
Consideration.
Opinions from medical sources who are not acceptable medical sources and from nonmedical sources may reflect the source's judgment about some of the same issues addressed in medical opinions from acceptable medical sources. Although we will consider these opinions using the same factors as listed in paragraph (c)(1) through (c)(6) in this section, not every factor for weighing opinion evidence will apply in every case because the evaluation of an opinion from a medical source who is not an acceptable medical source or from a nonmedical source depends on the particular facts in each case. Depending on the particular facts in a case, and after applying the factors for weighing opinion evidence, an opinion from a medical source who is not an acceptable medical source or from a nonmedical source may outweigh the medical opinion of an acceptable medical source, including the medical opinion of a treating source. For example, it may be appropriate to give more weight to the opinion of a medical source who is not an acceptable medical source if he or she has seen the individual more often than the treating source, has provided better supporting evidence and a better explanation for the opinion, and the opinion is more consistent with the evidence as a whole.
(2)
Articulation.
The adjudicator generally should explain the weight given to opinions from these sources or otherwise ensure that the discussion of the evidence in the determination or decision allows a claimant or subsequent reviewer to follow the adjudicator's reasoning, when such opinions may have an effect on the outcome of the case. In addition, when an adjudicator determines that an opinion from such a source is entitled to greater weight than a medical opinion from a treating source, the adjudicator must explain the reasons in the notice of decision in hearing cases and in the notice of determination (that is, in the personalized disability notice) at the initial and reconsideration levels, if the determination is less than fully favorable.
[82 FR 5869, Jan. 18, 2017; 82 FR 15132, Mar. 27, 2017]
§ 404.1528
[Reserved]
§ 404.1529
How we evaluate symptoms, including pain.
(a)
General.
In determining whether you are disabled, we consider all your symptoms, including pain, and the extent to which your symptoms can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence. We will consider all of your statements about your symptoms, such as pain, and any description your medical sources or nonmedical sources may provide about how the symptoms affect your activities of daily living and your ability to work. However, statements about your pain or other symptoms will not alone establish that you are disabled. There must be objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source that shows you have a medical impairment(s) which could reasonably be expected to produce the pain or other symptoms alleged and that, when considered with all of the other evidence (including statements about the intensity and persistence of your pain or other symptoms which may reasonably be accepted as consistent with the medical signs and laboratory findings), would lead to a conclusion that you are disabled. In evaluating the intensity and persistence of your symptoms, including pain, we will consider all of the available evidence, including your medical history, the medical signs and laboratory findings, and statements about how
your symptoms affect you. We will then determine the extent to which your alleged functional limitations and restrictions due to pain or other symptoms can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the medical signs and laboratory findings and other evidence to decide how your symptoms affect your ability to work.
(b)
Need for medically determinable impairment that could reasonably be expected to produce your symptoms, such as pain.
Your symptoms, such as pain, fatigue, shortness of breath, weakness, or nervousness, will not be found to affect your ability to do basic work activities unless medical signs or laboratory findings show that a medically determinable impairment(s) is present. Medical signs and laboratory findings, established by medically acceptable clinical or laboratory diagnostic techniques, must show the existence of a medical impairment(s) which results from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities and which could reasonably be expected to produce the pain or other symptoms alleged. In cases decided by a State agency (except in disability hearings under §§ 404.914 through 404.918 of this part and in fully favorable determinations made by State agency disability examiners alone under § 404.1615(c)(3) of this part), a State agency medical or psychological consultant or other medical or psychological consultant designated by the Commissioner directly participates in determining whether your medically determinable impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce your alleged symptoms. In the disability hearing process, a medical or psychological consultant may provide an advisory assessment to assist a disability hearing officer in determining whether your impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce your alleged symptoms. At the administrative law judge hearing or Appeals Council level of the administrative review process, the adjudicator(s) may ask for and consider the opinion of a medical or psychological expert concerning whether your impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce your alleged symptoms. The finding that your impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce your pain or other symptoms does not involve a determination as to the intensity, persistence, or functionally limiting effects of your symptoms. We will develop evidence regarding the possibility of a medically determinable mental impairment when we have information to suggest that such an impairment exists, and you allege pain or other symptoms but the medical signs and laboratory findings do not substantiate any physical impairment(s) capable of producing the pain or other symptoms.
(c)
Evaluating the intensity and persistence of your symptoms, such as pain, and determining the extent to which your symptoms limit your capacity for work
—(1)
General.
When the medical signs or laboratory findings show that you have a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce your symptoms, such as pain, we must then evaluate the intensity and persistence of your symptoms so that we can determine how your symptoms limit your capacity for work. In evaluating the intensity and persistence of your symptoms, we consider all of the available evidence from your medical sources and nonmedical sources about how your symptoms affect you. We also consider the medical opinions as explained in § 404.1520c. Paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section explain further how we evaluate the intensity and persistence of your symptoms and how we determine the extent to which your symptoms limit your capacity for work, when the medical signs or laboratory findings show that you have a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce your symptoms, such as pain.
(2)
Consideration of objective medical evidence.
Objective medical evidence is evidence obtained from the application of medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, such as evidence of reduced joint motion, muscle spasm, sensory deficit or motor disruption. Objective medical evidence of this type is a useful indicator to assist us in making reasonable conclusions about the intensity and persistence of your symptoms and the effect those symptoms, such as pain, may have on your ability to work. We must always attempt to obtain objective
medical evidence and, when it is obtained, we will consider it in reaching a conclusion as to whether you are disabled. However, we will not reject your statements about the intensity and persistence of your pain or other symptoms or about the effect your symptoms have on your ability to work solely because the available objective medical evidence does not substantiate your statements.
(3)
Consideration of other evidence.
Because symptoms sometimes suggest a greater severity of impairment than can be shown by objective medical evidence alone, we will carefully consider any other information you may submit about your symptoms. The information that your medical sources or nonmedical sources provide about your pain or other symptoms (e.g., what may precipitate or aggravate your symptoms, what medications, treatments or other methods you use to alleviate them, and how the symptoms may affect your pattern of daily living) is also an important indicator of the intensity and persistence of your symptoms. Because symptoms, such as pain, are subjective and difficult to quantify, any symptom-related functional limitations and restrictions that your medical sources or nonmedical sources report, which can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence, will be taken into account as explained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section in reaching a conclusion as to whether you are disabled. We will consider all of the evidence presented, including information about your prior work record, your statements about your symptoms, evidence submitted by your medical sources, and observations by our employees and other persons. Section 404.1520c explains in detail how we consider medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings about the nature and severity of your impairment(s) and any related symptoms, such as pain. Factors relevant to your symptoms, such as pain, which we will consider include:
(i) Your daily activities;
(ii) The location, duration, frequency, and intensity of your pain or other symptoms;
(iii) Precipitating and aggravating factors;
(iv) The type, dosage, effectiveness, and side effects of any medication you take or have taken to alleviate your pain or other symptoms;
(v) Treatment, other than medication, you receive or have received for relief of your pain or other symptoms;
(vi) Any measures you use or have used to relieve your pain or other symptoms (e.g., lying flat on your back, standing for 15 to 20 minutes every hour, sleeping on a board, etc.); and
(vii) Other factors concerning your functional limitations and restrictions due to pain or other symptoms.
(4)
How we determine the extent to which symptoms, such as pain, affect your capacity to perform basic work activities.
In determining the extent to which your symptoms, such as pain, affect your capacity to perform basic work activities, we consider all of the available evidence described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section. We will consider your statements about the intensity, persistence, and limiting effects of your symptoms, and we will evaluate your statements in relation to the objective medical evidence and other evidence, in reaching a conclusion as to whether you are disabled. We will consider whether there are any inconsistencies in the evidence and the extent to which there are any conflicts between your statements and the rest of the evidence, including your history, the signs and laboratory findings, and statements by your medical sources or other persons about how your symptoms affect you. Your symptoms, including pain, will be determined to diminish your capacity for basic work activities to the extent that your alleged functional limitations and restrictions due to symptoms, such as pain, can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence.
(d)
Consideration of symptoms in the disability determination process.
We follow a set order of steps to determine whether you are disabled. If you are not doing substantial gainful activity, we consider your symptoms, such as pain, to evaluate whether you have a severe physical or mental impairment(s), and at each of the remaining steps in the process. Sections 404.1520
and 404.1520a explain this process in detail. We also consider your symptoms, such as pain, at the appropriate steps in our review when we consider whether your disability continues. Sections 404.1579 and 404.1594 explain the procedure we follow in reviewing whether your disability continues.
(1)
Need to establish a severe medically determinable impairment(s).
Your symptoms, such as pain, fatigue, shortness of breath, weakness, or nervousness, are considered in making a determination as to whether your impairment or combination of impairment(s) is severe. (See § 404.1520(c).)
(2)
Decision whether the Listing of Impairments is met.
Some listed impairments include symptoms usually associated with those impairments as criteria. Generally, when a symptom is one of the criteria in a listing, it is only necessary that the symptom be present in combination with the other criteria. It is not necessary, unless the listing specifically states otherwise, to provide information about the intensity, persistence, or limiting effects of the symptom as long as all other findings required by the specific listing are present.
(3)
Decision whether the Listing of Impairments is medically equaled.
If your impairment is not the same as a listed impairment, we must determine whether your impairment(s) is medically equivalent to a listed impairment. Section 404.1526 explains how we make this determination. Under § 404.1526(b), we will consider medical equivalence based on all evidence in your case record about your impairment(s) and its effects on you that is relevant to this finding. In considering whether your symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings are medically equal to the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of a listed impairment, we will look to see whether your symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings are at least equal in severity to the listed criteria. However, we will not substitute your allegations of pain or other symptoms for a missing or deficient sign or laboratory finding to raise the severity of your impairment(s) to that of a listed impairment. If the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of your impairment(s) are equivalent in severity to those of a listed impairment, we will find you disabled. If it does not, we will consider the impact of your symptoms on your residual functional capacity. (See paragraph (d)(4) of this section.)
(4)
Impact of symptoms (including pain) on residual functional capacity.
If you have a medically determinable severe physical or mental impairment(s), but your impairment(s) does not meet or equal an impairment listed in appendix 1 of this subpart, we will consider the impact of your impairment(s) and any related symptoms, including pain, on your residual functional capacity. (See § 404.1545.)
[56 FR 57941, Nov. 14, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 71 FR 10429, Mar. 1, 2006; 71 FR 16445, Mar. 31, 2006; 75 FR 62681, Oct. 13, 2010; 76 FR 24807, May 3, 2011; 82 FR 5871, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1530
Need to follow prescribed treatment.
(a)
What treatment you must follow.
In order to get benefits, you must follow treatment prescribed by your medical source(s) if this treatment is expected to restore your ability to work.
(b)
When you do not follow prescribed treatment.
If you do not follow the prescribed treatment without a good reason, we will not find you disabled or, if you are already receiving benefits, we will stop paying you benefits.
(c)
Acceptable reasons for failure to follow prescribed treatment.
We will consider your physical, mental, educational, and linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) when determining if you have an acceptable reason for failure to follow prescribed treatment. The following are examples of a good reason for not following treatment:
(1) The specific medical treatment is contrary to the established teaching and tenets of your religion.
(2) The prescribed treatment would be cataract surgery for one eye, when there is an impairment of the other eye resulting in a severe loss of vision and is not subject to improvement through treatment.
(3) Surgery was previously performed with unsuccessful results and the same surgery is again being recommended for the same impairment.
(4) The treatment because of its magnitude (e.g., open heart surgery), unusual nature (e.g., organ transplant), or other reason is very risky for you; or
(5) The treatment involves amputation of an extremity, or a major part of an extremity.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 1635, Jan. 12, 1994; 82 FR 5871, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1535
How we will determine whether your drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(a)
General.
If we find that you are disabled and have medical evidence of your drug addiction or alcoholism, we must determine whether your drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(b)
Process we will follow when we have medical evidence of your drug addiction or alcoholism.
(1) The key factor we will examine in determining whether drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability is whether we would still find you disabled if you stopped using drugs or alcohol.
(2) In making this determination, we will evaluate which of your current physical and mental limitations, upon which we based our current disability determination, would remain if you stopped using drugs or alcohol and then determine whether any or all of your remaining limitations would be disabling.
(i) If we determine that your remaining limitations would not be disabling, we will find that your drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(ii) If we determine that your remaining limitations are disabling, you are disabled independent of your drug addiction or alcoholism and we will find that your drug addiction or alcoholism is not a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
[60 FR 8147, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 404.1536
Treatment required for individuals whose drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(a) If we determine that you are disabled and drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535), you must avail yourself of appropriate treatment for your drug addiction or alcoholism at an institution or facility approved by us when this treatment is available and make progress in your treatment. Generally, you are not expected to pay for this treatment. You will not be paid benefits for any month after the month we have notified you in writing that—
(1) You did not comply with the terms, conditions and requirements of the treatment which has been made available to you; or
(2) You did not avail yourself of the treatment after you had been notified that it is available to you.
(b) If your benefits are suspended for failure to comply with treatment requirements, your benefits can be reinstated in accordance with the rules in § 404.470.
[60 FR 8147, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 404.1537
What we mean by appropriate treatment.
By appropriate treatment, we mean treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism that serves the needs of the individual in the least restrictive setting possible consistent with your treatment plan. These settings range from outpatient counseling services through a variety of residential treatment settings including acute detoxification, short-term intensive residential treatment, long-term therapeutic residential treatment, and long-term recovery houses. Appropriate treatment is determined with the involvement of a State licensed or certified addiction professional on the basis of a detailed assessment of the individual's presenting symptomatology, psychosocial profile, and other relevant factors. This assessment may lead to a determination that more than one treatment modality is appropriate for the individual. The treatment will be provided or overseen by an approved institution or facility.
This treatment may include (but is not limited to)—
(a) Medical examination and medical management;
(b) Detoxification;
(c) Medication management to include substitution therapy (e.g., methadone);
(d) Psychiatric, psychological, psychosocial, vocational, or other substance abuse counseling in a residential or outpatient treatment setting; or
(e) Relapse prevention.
[60 FR 8148, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 404.1538
What we mean by approved institutions or facilities.
Institutions or facilities that we may approve include—
(a) An institution or facility that furnishes medically recognized treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism in conformity with applicable Federal or State laws and regulations;
(b) An institution or facility used by or licensed by an appropriate State agency which is authorized to refer persons for treatment of drug addiction or alcoholism;
(c) State licensed or certified care providers;
(d) Programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF) and/or the Joint Commission for the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) for the treatment of drug addiction or alcoholism;
(e) Medicare or Medicaid certified care providers; or
(f) Nationally recognized self-help drug addiction or alcoholism recovery programs (e.g., Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous) when participation in these programs is specifically prescribed by a treatment professional at an institution or facility described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section as part of an individual's treatment plan.
[60 FR 8148, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 404.1539
How we consider whether treatment is available.
Our determination about whether treatment is available to you for your drug addiction or your alcoholism will depend upon—
(a) The capacity of an approved institution or facility to admit you for appropriate treatment;
(b) The location of the approved institution or facility, or the place where treatment, services or resources could be provided to you;
(c) The availability and cost of transportation for you to the place of treatment;
(d) Your general health, including your ability to travel and capacity to understand and follow the prescribed treatment;
(e) Your particular condition and circumstances; and
(f) The treatment that is prescribed for your drug addiction or alcoholism.
[60 FR 8148, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 404.1540
Evaluating compliance with the treatment requirements.
(a)
General.
Generally, we will consider information from the treatment institution or facility to evaluate your compliance with your treatment plan. The treatment institution or facility will:
(1) Monitor your attendance at and participation in treatment sessions;
(2) Provide reports of the results of any clinical testing (such as, hematological or urinalysis studies for individuals with drug addiction and hematological studies and breath analysis for individuals with alcoholism) when such tests are likely to yield important information;
(3) Provide observational reports from the treatment professionals familiar with your individual case (subject to verification and Federal confidentiality requirements); or
(4) Provide their assessment or views on your noncompliance with treatment requirements.
(b)
Measuring progress.
Generally, we will consider information from the treatment institution or facility to evaluate your progress in completing your treatment plan. Examples of milestones for measuring your progress with the treatment which has been prescribed for your drug addiction or alcoholism may include (but are not limited to)—
(1) Abstinence from drug or alcohol use (initial progress may include significant reduction in use);
(2) Consistent attendance at and participation in treatment sessions;
(3) Improved social functioning and levels of gainful activity;
(4) Participation in vocational rehabilitation activities; or
(5) Avoidance of criminal activity.
[60 FR 8148, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 404.1541
Establishment and use of referral and monitoring agencies.
We will contract with one or more agencies in each of the States, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia to provide services to individuals whose disabilities are based on a determination that drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535) and to submit information to us which we will use to make decisions about these individuals' benefits. These agencies will be known as referral and monitoring agencies. Their duties and responsibilities include (but are not limited to)—
(a) Identifying appropriate treatment placements for individuals we refer to them;
(b) Referring these individuals for treatment;
(c) Monitoring the compliance and progress with the appropriate treatment of these individuals; and
(d) Promptly reporting to us any individual's failure to comply with treatment requirements as well as failure to achieve progress through the treatment.
[60 FR 8148, Feb. 10, 1995]

# Residual Functional Capacity
§ 404.1545
Your residual functional capacity.
(a)
General
—(1)
Residual functional capacity assessment.
Your impairment(s), and any related symptoms, such as pain, may cause physical and mental limitations that affect what you can do in a work setting. Your residual functional capacity is the most you can still do despite your limitations. We will assess your residual functional capacity based on all the relevant evidence in your case record. (
See
§§ 404.1512(d) through (e).)
(2)
If you have more than one impairment.
We will consider all of your medically determinable impairments of which we are aware, including your medically determinable impairments that are not “severe,” as explained in §§ 404.1520(c), 404.1521, and 404.1523, when we assess your residual functional capacity. (See paragraph (e) of this section.)
(3)
Evidence we use to assess your residual functional capacity.
We will assess your residual functional capacity based on all of the relevant medical and other evidence. In general, you are responsible for providing the evidence we will use to make a finding about your residual functional capacity. (
See
§ 404.1512(c).) However, before we make a determination that you are not disabled, we are responsible for developing your complete medical history, including arranging for a consultative examination(s) if necessary, and making every reasonable effort to help you get medical reports from your own medical sources. (
See
§§ 404.1512(d) through (f).) We will consider any statements about what you can still do that have been provided by medical sources, whether or not they are based on formal medical examinations. (
See
§ 404.1513.) We will also consider descriptions and observations of your limitations from your impairment(s), including limitations that result from your symptoms, such as pain, provided by you, your family, neighbors, friends, or other persons. (
See
paragraph (e) of this section and § 404.1529.)
(4)
What we will consider in assessing residual functional capacity.
When we assess your residual functional capacity, we will consider your ability to meet the physical, mental, sensory, and other requirements of work, as described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(5)
How we will use our residual functional capacity assessment.
(i) We will first use our residual functional capacity assessment at step four of the sequential evaluation process to decide if you can do your past relevant work. (
See
§§ 404.1520(f) and 404.1560(b).)
(ii) If we find that you cannot do your past relevant work, you do not have any past relevant work, or if we use the procedures in § 404.1520(h) and § 404.1562 does not apply, we will use the
same assessment of your residual functional capacity at step five of the sequential evaluation process to decide if you can adjust to any other work that exists in the national economy. (
See
§§ 404.1520(g) and 404.1566.) At this step, we will not use our assessment of your residual functional capacity alone to decide if you are disabled. We will use the guidelines in §§ 404.1560 through 404.1569a, and consider our residual functional capacity assessment together with the information about your vocational background to make our disability determination or decision. For our rules on residual functional capacity assessment in deciding whether your disability continues or ends,
see
§ 404.1594.
(b)
Physical abilities.
When we assess your physical abilities, we first assess the nature and extent of your physical limitations and then determine your residual functional capacity for work activity on a regular and continuing basis. A limited ability to perform certain physical demands of work activity, such as sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, pulling, or other physical functions (including manipulative or postural functions, such as reaching, handling, stooping or crouching), may reduce your ability to do past work and other work.
(c)
Mental abilities.
When we assess your mental abilities, we first assess the nature and extent of your mental limitations and restrictions and then determine your residual functional capacity for work activity on a regular and continuing basis. A limited ability to carry out certain mental activities, such as limitations in understanding, remembering, and carrying out instructions, and in responding appropriately to supervision, co-workers, and work pressures in a work setting, may reduce your ability to do past work and other work.
(d)
Other abilities affected by impairment(s).
Some medically determinable impairment(s), such as skin impairment(s), epilepsy, impairment(s) of vision, hearing or other senses, and impairment(s) which impose environmental restrictions, may cause limitations and restrictions which affect other work-related abilities. If you have this type of impairment(s), we consider any resulting limitations and restrictions which may reduce your ability to do past work and other work in deciding your residual functional capacity.
(e)
Total limiting effects.
When you have a severe impairment(s), but your symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings do not meet or equal those of a listed impairment in appendix 1 of this subpart, we will consider the limiting effects of all your impairment(s), even those that are not severe, in determining your residual functional capacity. Pain or other symptoms may cause a limitation of function beyond that which can be determined on the basis of the anatomical, physiological or psychological abnormalities considered alone; e.g., someone with a low back disorder may be fully capable of the physical demands consistent with those of sustained medium work activity, but another person with the same disorder, because of pain, may not be capable of more than the physical demands consistent with those of light work activity on a sustained basis. In assessing the total limiting effects of your impairment(s) and any related symptoms, we will consider all of the medical and nonmedical evidence, including the information described in § 404.1529(c).
[56 FR 57943, Nov. 14, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 51162, Aug. 26, 2003; 77 FR 10656, Feb. 23, 2012; 77 FR 43494, July 25, 2012]
§ 404.1546
Responsibility for assessing your residual functional capacity.
(a)
Responsibility for assessing residual functional capacity at the State agency.
When a State agency medical or psychological consultant and a State agency disability examiner make the disability determination as provided in § 404.1615(c)(1) of this part, a State agency medical or psychological consultant(s) is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity. When a State agency disability examiner makes a disability determination alone as provided in § 404.1615(c)(3), the disability examiner is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity.
(b)
Responsibility for assessing residual functional capacity in the disability hearings process.
If your case involves a disability hearing under § 404.914, a disability hearing officer is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity. However, if the disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination is changed under § 404.918, the Associate Commissioner for the Office of Disability Determinations or his or her delegate is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity.
(c)
Responsibility for assessing residual functional capacity at the administrative law judge hearing or Appeals Council level.
If your case is at the administrative law judge hearing level or at the Appeals Council review level, the administrative law judge or the administrative appeals judge at the Appeals Council (when the Appeals Council makes a decision) is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity.
[68 FR 51162, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 16445, Mar. 31, 2006; 75 FR 62681, Oct. 13, 2010; 76 FR 24807, May 3, 2011]

# Vocational Considerations
§ 404.1560
When we will consider your vocational background.
(a)
General.
If you are applying for a period of disability, or disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, or child's insurance benefits based on disability which began before age 22, or widow's or widower's benefits based on disability for months after December 1990, and we cannot decide whether you are disabled at one of the first three steps of the sequential evaluation process (
see
§ 404.1520), we will consider your residual functional capacity together with your vocational background, as discussed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Past relevant work.
We will first compare our assessment of your residual functional capacity with the physical and mental demands of your past relevant work. See § 404.1520(h) for an exception to this rule.
(1)
Definition of past relevant work
—(i)
What is past relevant work.
Past relevant work is work that you have done within the past five years that was substantial gainful activity and that lasted long enough for you to learn to do it (see § 404.1565(a)). We will not consider work to be past relevant work if you started and stopped it in fewer than 30 calendar days (see paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section).
(ii)
30 calendar days.
When we consider past relevant work and work experience (see § 404.1565), 30 calendar days means a period of 30 consecutive days, including weekends, starting from the first day of work. When we consider whether work lasted 30 calendar days, we generally do not consider the total number of hours or days worked during that period, or whether the work was full-time or part-time. The 30 calendar days requirement is separate from the consideration of substantial gainful activity or whether you worked long enough to learn how to do the work, although the work performed during the 30 calendar days may count toward the time needed for you to learn to do the work. The 30 calendar days requirement also applies if you were self-employed or an independent contractor; we will consider whether you were engaged in the same type of work for 30 calendar days, even if individual work assignments or contracts each lasted fewer than 30 calendar days.
(2)
Determining whether you can do your past relevant work.
We will ask you for information about work you have done in the past. We may also ask other people who know about your work. (
See
§ 404.1565(b).) We may use the services of vocational experts or vocational specialists, or other resources, such as the “Dictionary of Occupational Titles” and its companion volumes and supplements, published by the Department of Labor, to obtain evidence we need to help us determine whether you can do your past relevant work, given your residual functional capacity. A vocational expert or specialist may offer relevant evidence within his or her expertise or knowledge concerning the physical and mental demands of a claimant's past relevant work, either as the claimant actually performed it or as generally performed in the national economy. Such evidence may be helpful in supplementing or evaluating the accuracy of the claimant's description of
his past work. In addition, a vocational expert or specialist may offer expert opinion testimony in response to a hypothetical question about whether a person with the physical and mental limitations imposed by the claimant's medical impairment(s) can meet the demands of the claimant's previous work, either as the claimant actually performed it or as generally performed in the national economy.
(3)
If you can do your past relevant work.
If we find that you have the residual functional capacity to do your past relevant work, we will determine that you can still do your past work and are not disabled. We will not consider your vocational factors of age, education, and work experience or whether your past relevant work exists in significant numbers in the national economy.
(c)
Other work.
(1) If we find that your residual functional capacity does not enable you to do any of your past relevant work or if we use the procedures in § 404.1520(h), we will use the same residual functional capacity assessment when we decide if you can adjust to any other work. We will look at your ability to adjust to other work by considering your residual functional capacity and the vocational factors of age, education, and work experience, as appropriate in your case. (
See
§ 404.1520(h) for an exception to this rule.) Any other work (jobs) that you can adjust to must exist in significant numbers in the national economy (either in the region where you live or in several regions in the country).
(2) In order to support a finding that you are not disabled at this fifth step of the sequential evaluation process, we are responsible for providing evidence that demonstrates that other work exists in significant numbers in the national economy that you can do, given your residual functional capacity and vocational factors. We are not responsible for providing additional evidence about your residual functional capacity because we will use the same residual functional capacity assessment that we used to determine if you can do your past relevant work.
[68 FR 51163, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 77 FR 43494, July 25, 2012; 89 FR 27667, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 404.1562
Medical-vocational profiles showing an inability to make an adjustment to other work.
(a)
If you have done only arduous unskilled physical labor.
If you have no more than a marginal education (
see
§ 404.1564) and work experience of 35 years or more during which you did only arduous unskilled physical labor, and you are not working and are no longer able to do this kind of work because of a severe impairment(s) (
see
§§ 404.1520(c), 404.1521, and 404.1523), we will consider you unable to do lighter work, and therefore, disabled.

# Example to paragraph (a):
B is a 58-year-old miner's helper with a fourth grade education who has a lifelong history of unskilled arduous physical labor. B says that he is disabled because of arthritis of the spine, hips, and knees, and other impairments. Medical evidence shows a “severe” combination of impairments that prevents B from performing his past relevant work. Under these circumstances, we will find that B is disabled.
(b)
If you are at least 55 years old, have no more than a limited education, and have no past relevant work experience.
If you have a severe, medically determinable impairment(s) (
see
§§ 404.1520(c), 404.1521, and 404.1523), are of advanced age (age 55 or older,
see
§ 404.1563), have a limited education or less (
see
§ 404.1564), and have no past relevant work experience (
see
§ 404.1565), we will find you disabled. If the evidence shows that you meet this profile, we will not need to assess your residual functional capacity or consider the rules in appendix 2 to this subpart.
[68 FR 51163, Aug. 26, 2003]
§ 404.1563
Your age as a vocational factor.
(a)
General.
“Age” means your chronological age. When we decide whether you are disabled under § 404.1520(g)(1), we will consider your chronological age in combination with your residual functional capacity, education, and work experience. We will not consider your ability to adjust to other work on the basis of your age alone. In determining the extent to which age affects a person's ability to adjust to other work, we consider advancing age to be an increasingly limiting factor in the
person's ability to make such an adjustment, as we explain in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. If you are unemployed but you still have the ability to adjust to other work, we will find that you are not disabled. In paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section and in appendix 2 to this subpart, we explain in more detail how we consider your age as a vocational factor.
(b)
How we apply the age categories.
When we make a finding about your ability to do other work under § 404.1520(f)(1), we will use the age categories in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. We will use each of the age categories that applies to you during the period for which we must determine if you are disabled. We will not apply the age categories mechanically in a borderline situation. If you are within a few days to a few months of reaching an older age category, and using the older age category would result in a determination or decision that you are disabled, we will consider whether to use the older age category after evaluating the overall impact of all the factors of your case.
(c)
Younger person.
If you are a younger person (under age 50), we generally do not consider that your age will seriously affect your ability to adjust to other work. However, in some circumstances, we consider that persons age 45-49 are more limited in their ability to adjust to other work than persons who have not attained age 45. See Rule 201.17 in appendix 2.
(d)
Person closely approaching advanced age.
If you are closely approaching advanced age (age 50-54), we will consider that your age along with a severe impairment(s) and limited work experience may seriously affect your ability to adjust to other work.
(e)
Person of advanced age.
We consider that at advanced age (age 55 or older), age significantly affects a person's ability to adjust to other work. We have special rules for persons of advanced age and for persons in this category who are closely approaching retirement age (age 60 or older). See § 404.1568(d)(4).
(f)
Information about your age.
We will usually not ask you to prove your age. However, if we need to know your exact age to determine whether you get disability benefits or if the amount of your benefit will be affected, we will ask you for evidence of your age.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 18000, Apr. 6, 2000; 68 FR 51163, Aug. 26, 2003; 73 FR 64196, Oct. 29, 2008]
§ 404.1564
Your education as a vocational factor.
(a)
General. Education
is primarily used to mean formal schooling or other training which contributes to your ability to meet vocational requirements, for example, reasoning ability, communication skills, and arithmetical ability. However, if you do not have formal schooling, this does not necessarily mean that you are uneducated or lack these abilities. Past work experience and the kinds of responsibilities you had when you were working may show that you have intellectual abilities, although you may have little formal education. Your daily activities, hobbies, or the results of testing may also show that you have significant intellectual ability that can be used to work.
(b)
How we evaluate your education.
The importance of your educational background may depend upon how much time has passed between the completion of your formal education and the beginning of your physical or mental impairment(s) and by what you have done with your education in a work or other setting. Formal education that you completed many years before your impairment began, or unused skills and knowledge that were a part of your formal education, may no longer be useful or meaningful in terms of your ability to work. Therefore, the numerical grade level that you completed in school may not represent your actual educational abilities. These may be higher or lower. However, if there is no other evidence to contradict it, we will use your numerical grade level to determine your educational abilities. In evaluating your educational level, we use the following categories:
(1)
Illiteracy.
Illiteracy means the inability to read or write. We consider someone illiterate if the person cannot read or write a simple message such as instructions or inventory lists even though the person can sign his or her
name. Generally, an illiterate person has had little or no formal schooling.
(2)
Marginal education.
Marginal education means ability in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills which are needed to do simple, unskilled types of jobs. We generally consider that formal schooling at a 6th grade level or less is a marginal education.
(3)
Limited education.
Limited education means ability in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills, but not enough to allow a person with these educational qualifications to do most of the more complex job duties needed in semi-skilled or skilled jobs. We generally consider that a 7th grade through the 11th grade level of formal education is a limited education.
(4)
High school education and above.
High school education and above means abilities in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills acquired through formal schooling at a 12th grade level or above. We generally consider that someone with these educational abilities can do semi-skilled through skilled work.
(c)
Information about your education.
We will ask you how long you attended school, and whether you are able to understand, read, and write, and do at least simple arithmetic calculations. We will also consider other information about how much formal or informal education you may have had through your previous work, community projects, hobbies, and any other activities which might help you to work.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 85 FR 10602, Feb. 25, 2020]
§ 404.1565
Your work experience as a vocational factor.
(a)
General. Work experience
means skills and abilities you have acquired through work you have done which show the type of work you may be expected to do. Work you have already been able to do shows the kind of work that you may be expected to do. We consider that your work experience applies when it was done within the last five years, lasted long enough for you to learn to do it, and was substantial gainful activity. We do not usually consider that work you did more than five years before the time we are deciding whether you are disabled (or when the disability insured status requirement was last met, if earlier) applies. A gradual change occurs in most jobs so that after five years it is no longer realistic to expect that skills and abilities acquired in a job done then continue to apply. If you have no work experience or you did work that started and stopped in a period of fewer than 30 calendar days (see § 404.1560(b)(1)(ii)) during the five-year period, we generally consider that these do not apply. If you have acquired skills through your past work, we consider you to have these work skills unless you cannot use them in other skilled or semi-skilled work that you can now do. If you cannot use your skills in other skilled or semi-skilled work, we will consider your work background the same as unskilled. However, even if you have no work experience, we may consider that you are able to do unskilled work because it requires little or no judgment and can be learned in a short period of time.
(b)
Information about your work.
Under certain circumstances, we will ask you about the work you have done in the past. If you cannot give us all of the information we need, we may try, with your permission, to get it from your employer or other person who knows about your work, such as a member of your family or a co-worker. When we need to consider your work experience to decide whether you are able to do work that is different from what you have done in the past, we will ask you to tell us about all of the jobs you have had in the last five years. You must tell us the dates you worked, all of the duties you did, and any tools, machinery, and equipment you used. We will need to know about the amount of walking, standing, sitting, lifting and carrying you did during the workday, as well as any other physical or mental duties of your job. If all of your work in the past five years has been arduous and unskilled, and you have very little education, we will ask you to tell us about all of your work from the time you first began working. This information could help you to get disability benefits.
[89 FR 27667, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 404.1566
Work which exists in the national economy.
(a)
General.
We consider that work exists in the national economy when it exists in significant numbers either in the region where you live or in several other regions of the country. It does not matter whether—
(1) Work exists in the immediate area in which you live;
(2) A specific job vacancy exists for you; or
(3) You would be hired if you applied for work.
(b)
How we determine the existence of work.
Work exists in the national economy when there is a significant number of jobs (in one or more occupations) having requirements which you are able to meet with your physical or mental abilities and vocational qualifications. Isolated jobs that exist only in very limited numbers in relatively few locations outside of the region where you live are not considered “work which exists in the national economy”. We will not deny you disability benefits on the basis of the existence of these kinds of jobs. If work that you can do does not exist in the national economy, we will determine that you are disabled. However, if work that you can do does exist in the national economy, we will determine that you are not disabled.
(c)
Inability to obtain work.
We will determine that you are not disabled if your residual functional capacity and vocational abilities make it possible for you to do work which exists in the national economy, but you remain unemployed because of—
(1) Your inability to get work;
(2) Lack of work in your local area;
(3) The hiring practices of employers;
(4) Technological changes in the industry in which you have worked;
(5) Cyclical economic conditions;
(6) No job openings for you;
(7) You would not actually be hired to do work you could otherwise do; or
(8) You do not wish to do a particular type of work.
(d)
Administrative notice of job data.
When we determine that unskilled, sedentary, light, and medium jobs exist in the national economy (in significant numbers either in the region where you live or in several regions of the country), we will take administrative notice of reliable job information available from various governmental and other publications. For example, we will take notice of—
(1)
Dictionary of Occupational Titles,
published by the Department of Labor;
(2)
County Business Patterns,
published by the Bureau of the Census;
(3)
Census Reports,
also published by the Bureau of the Census;
(4)
Occupational Analyses,
prepared for the Social Security Administration by various State employment agencies; and
(5)
Occupational Outlook Handbook,
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(e)
Use of vocational experts and other specialists.
If the issue in determining whether you are disabled is whether your work skills can be used in other work and the specific occupations in which they can be used, or there is a similarly complex issue, we may use the services of a vocational expert or other specialist. We will decide whether to use a vocational expert or other specialist.
§ 404.1567
Physical exertion requirements.
To determine the physical exertion requirements of work in the national economy, we classify jobs as
sedentary, light, medium, heavy,
and
very heavy.
These terms have the same meaning as they have in the
Dictionary of Occupational Titles,
published by the Department of Labor. In making disability determinations under this subpart, we use the following definitions:
(a)
Sedentary work.
Sedentary work involves lifting no more than 10 pounds at a time and occasionally lifting or carrying articles like docket files, ledgers, and small tools. Although a sedentary job is defined as one which involves sitting, a certain amount of walking and standing is often necessary in carrying out job duties. Jobs are sedentary if walking and standing are required occasionally and other sedentary criteria are met.
(b)
Light work.
Light work involves lifting no more than 20 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 10 pounds. Even though the weight lifted may be
very little, a job is in this category when it requires a good deal of walking or standing, or when it involves sitting most of the time with some pushing and pulling of arm or leg controls. To be considered capable of performing a full or wide range of light work, you must have the ability to do substantially all of these activities. If someone can do light work, we determine that he or she can also do sedentary work, unless there are additional limiting factors such as loss of fine dexterity or inability to sit for long periods of time.
(c)
Medium work.
Medium work involves lifting no more than 50 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 25 pounds. If someone can do medium work, we determine that he or she can also do sedentary and light work.
(d)
Heavy work.
Heavy work involves lifting no more than 100 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 50 pounds. If someone can do heavy work, we determine that he or she can also do medium, light, and sedentary work.
(e)
Very heavy work.
Very heavy work involves lifting objects weighing more than 100 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing 50 pounds or more. If someone can do very heavy work, we determine that he or she can also do heavy, medium, light and sedentary work.
§ 404.1568
Skill requirements.
In order to evaluate your skills and to help determine the existence in the national economy of work you are able to do, occupations are classified as unskilled, semi-skilled, and skilled. In classifying these occupations, we use materials published by the Department of Labor. When we make disability determinations under this subpart, we use the following definitions:
(a)
Unskilled work.
Unskilled work is work which needs little or no judgment to do simple duties that can be learned on the job in a short period of time. The job may or may not require considerable strength. For example, we consider jobs unskilled if the primary work duties are handling, feeding and offbearing (that is, placing or removing materials from machines which are automatic or operated by others), or machine tending, and a person can usually learn to do the job in 30 days, and little specific vocational preparation and judgment are needed. A person does not gain work skills by doing unskilled jobs.
(b)
Semi-skilled work.
Semi-skilled work is work which needs some skills but does not require doing the more complex work duties. Semi-skilled jobs may require alertness and close attention to watching machine processes; or inspecting, testing or otherwise looking for irregularities; or tending or guarding equipment, property, materials, or persons against loss, damage or injury; or other types of activities which are similarly less complex than skilled work, but more complex than unskilled work. A job may be classified as semi-skilled where coordination and dexterity are necessary, as when hands or feet must be moved quickly to do repetitive tasks.
(c)
Skilled work.
Skilled work requires qualifications in which a person uses judgment to determine the machine and manual operations to be performed in order to obtain the proper form, quality, or quantity of material to be produced. Skilled work may require laying out work, estimating quality, determining the suitability and needed quantities of materials, making precise measurements, reading blueprints or other specifications, or making necessary computations or mechanical adjustments to control or regulate the work. Other skilled jobs may require dealing with people, facts, or figures or abstract ideas at a high level of complexity.
(d)
Skills that can be used in other work (transferability)
—(1)
What we mean by transferable skills.
We consider you to have skills that can be used in other jobs, when the skilled or semi-skilled work activities you did in past work can be used to meet the requirements of skilled or semi-skilled work activities of other jobs or kinds of work. This depends largely on the similarity of occupationally significant work activities among different jobs.
(2)
How we determine skills that can be transferred to other jobs.
Transferability is most probable and meaningful among jobs in which—
(i) The same or a lesser degree of skill is required;
(ii) The same or similar tools and machines are used; and
(iii) The same or similar raw materials, products, processes, or services are involved.
(3)
Degrees of transferability.
There are degrees of transferability of skills ranging from very close similarities to remote and incidental similarities among jobs. A complete similarity of all three factors is not necessary for transferability. However, when skills are so specialized or have been acquired in such an isolated vocational setting (like many jobs in mining, agriculture, or fishing) that they are not readily usable in other industries, jobs, and work settings, we consider that they are not transferable.
(4)
Transferability of skills for persons of advanced age.
If you are of advanced age (age 55 or older), and you have a severe impairment(s) that limits you to
sedentary
or
light work,
we will find that you cannot make an adjustment to other work unless you have skills that you can transfer to other skilled or semiskilled work (or you have recently completed education which provides for direct entry into skilled work) that you can do despite your impairment(s). We will decide if you have transferable skills as follows. If you are of advanced age and you have a severe impairment(s) that limits you to no more than
sedentary
work, we will find that you have skills that are transferable to skilled or semiskilled sedentary work only if the sedentary work is so similar to your previous work that you would need to make very little, if any, vocational adjustment in terms of tools, work processes, work settings, or the industry. (See § 404.1567(a) and § 201.00(f) of appendix 2.) If you are of advanced age but have not attained age 60, and you have a severe impairment(s) that limits you to no more than
light
work, we will apply the rules in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section to decide if you have skills that are transferable to skilled or semiskilled light work (see § 404.1567(b)). If you are
closely approaching retirement age
(age 60 or older) and you have a severe impairment(s) that limits you to no more than
light
work, we will find that you have skills that are transferable to skilled or semiskilled light work only if the light work is so similar to your previous work that you would need to make very little, if any, vocational adjustment in terms of tools, work processes, work settings, or the industry. (See § 404.1567(b) and Rule 202.00(f) of appendix 2 to this subpart.)
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 18000, Apr. 6, 2000; 73 FR 64197, Oct. 29, 2008]
§ 404.1569
Listing of Medical-Vocational Guidelines in appendix 2.
The Dictionary of Occupational Titles includes information about jobs (classified by their exertional and skill requirements) that exist in the national economy. Appendix 2 provides rules using this data reflecting major functional and vocational patterns. We apply these rules in cases where a person is not doing substantial gainful activity and is prevented by a severe medically determinable impairment from doing vocationally relevant past work. (
See
§ 404.1520(h) for an exception to this rule.) The rules in appendix 2 do not cover all possible variations of factors. Also, as we explain in § 200.00 of appendix 2, we do not apply these rules if one of the findings of fact about the person's vocational factors and residual functional capacity is not the same as the corresponding criterion of a rule. In these instances, we give full consideration to all relevant facts in accordance with the definitions and discussions under vocational considerations. However, if the findings of fact made about all factors are the same as the rule, we use that rule to decide whether a person is disabled.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 77 FR 43494, July 25, 2012]
§ 404.1569a
Exertional and nonexertional limitations.
(a)
General.
Your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, may cause limitations of function or restrictions which limit your ability to meet certain demands of jobs. These limitations may be exertional, nonexertional, or a combination of both. Limitations are classified as exertional if they affect your ability to meet the
strength demands of jobs. The classification of a limitation as exertional is related to the United States Department of Labor's classification of jobs by various exertional levels (sedentary, light, medium, heavy, and very heavy) in terms of the strength demands for sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling. Sections 404.1567 and 404.1569 explain how we use the classification of jobs by exertional levels (strength demands) which is contained in the Dictionary of Occupational Titles published by the Department of Labor, to determine the exertional requirements of work which exists in the national economy. Limitations or restrictions which affect your ability to meet the demands of jobs other than the strength demands, that is, demands other than sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing or pulling, are considered nonexertional. When we decide whether you can do your past relevant work (
see
§§ 404.1520(f) and 404.1594(f)(7)), we will compare our assessment of your residual functional capacity with the demands of your past relevant work. If you cannot do your past relevant work, we will use the same residual functional capacity assessment along with your age, education, and work experience to decide if you can adjust to any other work which exists in the national economy. (
See
§§ 404.1520(g) and 404.1594(f)(8).) Paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section explain how we apply the medical-vocational guidelines in appendix 2 of this subpart in making this determination, depending on whether the limitations or restrictions imposed by your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, are exertional, nonexertional, or a combination of both.
(b)
Exertional limitations.
When the limitations and restrictions imposed by your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect only your ability to meet the strength demands of jobs (sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling), we consider that you have only exertional limitations. When your impairment(s) and related symptoms only impose exertional limitations and your specific vocational profile is listed in a rule contained in appendix 2 of this subpart, we will directly apply that rule to decide whether you are disabled.
(c)
Nonexertional limitations.
(1) When the limitations and restrictions imposed by your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect only your ability to meet the demands of jobs other than the strength demands, we consider that you have only nonexertional limitations or restrictions. Some examples of nonexertional limitations or restrictions include the following:
(i) You have difficulty functioning because you are nervous, anxious, or depressed;
(ii) You have difficulty maintaining attention or concentrating;
(iii) You have difficulty understanding or remembering detailed instructions;
(iv) You have difficulty in seeing or hearing;
(v) You have difficulty tolerating some physical feature(s) of certain work settings, e.g., you cannot tolerate dust or fumes; or
(vi) You have difficulty performing the manipulative or postural functions of some work such as reaching, handling, stooping, climbing, crawling, or crouching.
(2) If your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, only affect your ability to perform the nonexertional aspects of work-related activities, the rules in appendix 2 do not direct factual conclusions of disabled or not disabled. The determination as to whether disability exists will be based on the principles in the appropriate sections of the regulations, giving consideration to the rules for specific case situations in appendix 2.
(d)
Combined exertional and nonexertional limitations.
When the limitations and restrictions imposed by your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect your ability to meet both the strength and demands of jobs other than the strength demands, we consider that you have a combination of exertional and nonexertional limitations or restrictions. If your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect your ability to meet both the strength and demands of jobs other than the strength demands,
we will not directly apply the rules in appendix 2 unless there is a rule that directs a conclusion that you are disabled based upon your strength limitations; otherwise the rules provide a framework to guide our decision.
[56 FR 57943, Nov. 14, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 51163, Aug. 26, 2003]

# Substantial Gainful Activity
§ 404.1571
General.
The work, without regard to legality, that you have done during any period in which you believe you are disabled may show that you are able to work at the substantial gainful activity level. If you are able to engage in substantial gainful activity, we will find that you are not disabled. (We explain the rules for persons who are statutorily blind in § 404.1584.) Even if the work you have done was not substantial gainful activity, it may show that you are able to do more work than you actually did. We will consider all of the medical and vocational evidence in your file to decide whether or not you have the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 42783, July 11, 2000]
§ 404.1572
What we mean by substantial gainful activity.
Substantial gainful activity is work activity that is both substantial and gainful:
(a)
Substantial work activity.
Substantial work activity is work activity that involves doing significant physical or mental activities. Your work may be substantial even if it is done on a part-time basis or if you do less, get paid less, or have less responsibility than when you worked before.
(b)
Gainful work activity.
Gainful work activity is work activity that you do for pay or profit. Work activity is gainful if it is the kind of work usually done for pay or profit, whether or not a profit is realized.
(c)
Some other activities.
Generally, we do not consider activities like taking care of yourself, household tasks, hobbies, therapy, school attendance, club activities, or social programs to be substantial gainful activity.
§ 404.1573
General information about work activity.
(a)
The nature of your work.
If your duties require use of your experience, skills, supervision and responsibilities, or contribute substantially to the operation of a business, this tends to show that you have the ability to work at the substantial gainful activity level.
(b)
How well you perform.
We consider how well you do your work when we determine whether or not you are doing substantial gainful activity. If you do your work satisfactorily, this may show that you are working at the substantial gainful activity level. If you are unable, because of your impairments, to do ordinary or simple tasks satisfactorily without more supervision or assistance than is usually given other people doing similar work, this may show that you are not working at the substantial gainful activity level. If you are doing work that involves minimal duties that make little or no demands on you and that are of little or no use to your employer, or to the operation of a business if you are self-employed, this does not show that you are working at the substantial gainful activity level.
(c)
If your work is done under special conditions.
The work you are doing may be done under special conditions that take into account your impairment, such as work done in a sheltered workshop or as a patient in a hospital. If your work is done under special conditions, we may find that it does not show that you have the ability to do substantial gainful activity. Also, if you are forced to stop or reduce your work because of the removal of special conditions that were related to your impairment and essential to your work, we may find that your work does not show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity. However, work done under special conditions may show that you have the necessary skills and ability to work at the substantial gainful activity level. Examples of the special conditions that may relate to your impairment include, but are not limited to, situations in which—
(1) You required and received special assistance from other employees in performing your work;
(2) You were allowed to work irregular hours or take frequent rest periods;
(3) You were provided with special equipment or were assigned work especially suited to your impairment;
(4) You were able to work only because of specially arranged circumstances, for example, other persons helped you prepare for or get to and from your work;
(5) You were permitted to work at a lower standard of productivity or efficiency than other employees; or
(6) You were given the opportunity to work despite your impairment because of family relationship, past association with your employer, or your employer's concern for your welfare.
(d)
If you are self-employed.
Supervisory, managerial, advisory or other significant personal services that you perform as a self-employed individual may show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity.
(e)
Time spent in work.
While the time you spend in work is important, we will not decide whether or not you are doing substantial gainful activity only on that basis. We will still evaluate the work to decide whether it is substantial and gainful regardless of whether you spend more time or less time at the job than workers who are not impaired and who are doing similar work as a regular means of their livelihood.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 42783, July 11, 2000]
§ 404.1574
Evaluation guides if you are an employee.
(a) We use several guides to decide whether the work you have done shows that you are able to do substantial gainful activity. If you are working or have worked as an employee, we will use the provisions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section that are relevant to your work activity. We will use these provisions whenever they are appropriate, whether in connection with your application for disability benefits (when we make an initial determination on your application and throughout any appeals you may request), after you have become entitled to a period of disability or to disability benefits, or both.
(1)
Your earnings may show you have done substantial gainful activity.
Generally, in evaluating your work activity for substantial gainful activity purposes, our primary consideration will be the earnings you derive from the work activity. We will use your earnings to determine whether you have done substantial gainful activity unless we have information from you, your employer, or others that shows that we should not count all of your earnings. The amount of your earnings from work you have done (regardless of whether it is unsheltered or sheltered work) may show that you have engaged in substantial gainful activity. Generally, if you worked for substantial earnings, we will find that you are able to do substantial gainful activity. However, the fact that your earnings were not substantial will not necessarily show that you are not able to do substantial gainful activity. We generally consider work that you are forced to stop or to reduce below the substantial gainful activity level after a short time because of your impairment to be an unsuccessful work attempt. Your earnings from an unsuccessful work attempt will not show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity. We will use the criteria in paragraph (c) of this section to determine if the work you did was an unsuccessful work attempt.
(2)
We consider only the amounts you earn.
When we decide whether your earnings show that you have done substantial gainful activity, we do not consider any income that is not directly related to your productivity. When your earnings exceed the reasonable value of the work you perform, we consider only that part of your pay which you actually earn. If your earnings are being subsidized, we do not consider the amount of the subsidy when we determine if your earnings show that you have done substantial gainful activity. We consider your work to be subsidized if the true value of your work, when compared with the same or similar work done by unimpaired persons, is less than the actual amount of earnings paid to you for your work. For example, when a person with a serious impairment does simple
tasks under close and continuous supervision, our determination of whether that person has done substantial gainful activity will not be based only on the amount of the wages paid. We will first determine whether the person received a subsidy; that is, we will determine whether the person was being paid more than the reasonable value of the actual services performed. We will then subtract the value of the subsidy from the person's gross earnings to determine the earnings we will use to determine if he or she has done substantial gainful activity.
(3)
If you are working in a sheltered or special environment.
If you are working in a sheltered workshop, you may or may not be earning the amounts you are being paid. The fact that the sheltered workshop or similar facility is operating at a loss or is receiving some charitable contributions or governmental aid does not establish that you are not earning all you are being paid. Since persons in military service being treated for severe impairments usually continue to receive full pay, we evaluate work activity in a therapy program or while on limited duty by comparing it with similar work in the civilian work force or on the basis of reasonable worth of the work, rather than on the actual amount of the earnings.
(b)
Earnings guidelines
—(1)
General.
If you are an employee, we first consider the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and § 404.1576, and then the guides in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. When we review your earnings to determine if you have been performing substantial gainful activity, we will subtract the value of any subsidized earnings (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section) and the reasonable cost of any impairment-related work expenses from your gross earnings (see § 404.1576). The resulting amount is the amount we use to determine if you have done substantial gainful activity. We will generally average your earnings for comparison with the earnings guidelines in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. See § 404.1574a for our rules on averaging earnings.
(2)
Earnings that will ordinarily show that you have engaged in substantial gainful activity.
We will consider that your earnings from your work activity as an employee (including earnings from work in a sheltered workshop or a comparable facility especially set up for severely impaired persons) show that you engaged in substantial gainful activity if:
(i)
Before January 1, 2001,
they averaged more than the amount(s) in Table 1 of this section for the time(s) in which you worked.
(ii)
Beginning January 1,
2001, and each year thereafter, they average more than the larger of:
(A) The amount for the previous year, or
(B) An amount adjusted for national wage growth, calculated by multiplying $700 by the ratio of the national average wage index for the year 2 calendar years before the year for which the amount is being calculated to the national average wage index for the year 1998. We will then round the resulting amount to the next higher multiple of $10 where such amount is a multiple of $5 but not of $10 and to the nearest multiple of $10 in any other case.
Table 1
For months:
Your monthly earnings
averaged more than:
In calendar years before 1976
$200
In calendar year 1976
230
In calendar year 1977
240
In calendar year 1978
260
In calendar year 1979
280
In calendar years 1980-1989
300
January 1990-June 1999
500
July 1999-December 2000
700
(3)
Earnings that will ordinarily show that you have not engaged in substantial gainful activity
—(i)
General.
If your average monthly earnings are equal to or less than the amount(s) determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section for the year(s) in which you work, we will generally consider that the earnings from your work as an employee (including earnings from work in a sheltered workshop or comparable facility) will show that you have not engaged in substantial gainful activity. We will generally not consider other information in addition to your earnings except in the circumstances described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
When we will consider other information in addition to your earnings.
We will generally consider other information in addition to your earnings if there is evidence indicating that you may be engaging in substantial gainful activity or that you are in a position to control when earnings are paid to you or the amount of wages paid to you (for example, if you are working for a small corporation owned by a relative). (See paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section for when we do not apply this rule.) Examples of other information we may consider include, whether—
(A) Your work is comparable to that of unimpaired people in your community who are doing the same or similar occupations as their means of livelihood, taking into account the time, energy, skill, and responsibility involved in the work; and
(B) Your work, although significantly less than that done by unimpaired people, is clearly worth the amounts shown in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, according to pay scales in your community.
(iii)
Special rule for considering earnings alone when evaluating the work you do after you have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, we will not consider other information in addition to your earnings to evaluate the work you are doing or have done if—
(A) At the time you do the work, you are entitled to social security disability benefits and you have received such benefits for at least 24 months (see paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section); and
(B) We are evaluating that work to consider whether you have engaged in substantial gainful activity or demonstrated the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity for the purpose of determining whether your disability has ceased because of your work activity (see §§ 404.1592a(a)(1) and (3)(ii) and 404.1594(d)(5) and (f)(1)).
(iv)
When we consider you to have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, social security disability benefits means disability insurance benefits for a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability. We consider you to have received such benefits for at least 24 months beginning with the first day of the first month following the 24th month for which you actually received social security disability benefits that you were due or constructively received such benefits. The 24 months do not have to be consecutive. We will consider you to have constructively received a benefit for a month for purposes of the 24-month requirement if you were otherwise due a social security disability benefit for that month and your monthly benefit was withheld to recover an overpayment. Any months for which you were entitled to benefits but for which you did not actually or constructively receive a benefit payment will not be counted for the 24-month requirement. If you also receive supplemental security income payments based on disability or blindness under title XVI of the Social Security Act, months for which you received only supplemental security income payments will not be counted for the 24-month requirement.
(c)
The unsuccessful work attempt
—(1)
General.
Ordinarily, work you have done will not show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity if, after you worked for a period of 6 months or less, your impairment forced you to stop working or to reduce the amount of work you do so that your earnings from such work fall below the substantial gainful activity earnings level in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and you meet the conditions described in paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (4) of this section. We will use the provisions of this paragraph when we make an initial determination on your application for disability benefits and throughout any appeal you may request. Except as set forth in § 404.1592a(a), we will also apply the provisions of this paragraph if you are already entitled to disability benefits, when you work and we consider whether the work you are doing is substantial gainful activity or demonstrates the ability to do substantial gainful activity.
(2)
Event that must precede an unsuccessful work attempt.
There must be a significant break in the continuity of
your work before we will consider that you began a work attempt that later proved unsuccessful. You must have stopped working or reduced your work and earnings below the substantial gainful activity earnings level because of your impairment or because of the removal of special conditions that were essential to the further performance of your work. We explain what we mean by special conditions in § 404.1573(c). We will consider your prior work to be “discontinued” for a significant period if you were out of work at least 30 consecutive days. We will also consider your prior work to be “discontinued” if, because of your impairment, you were forced to change to another type of work or another employer.
(3)
If you worked 6 months or less.
We will consider work of 6 months or less to be an unsuccessful work attempt if you stopped working or you reduced your work and earnings below the substantial gainful activity earnings level because of your impairment or because of the removal of special conditions that took into account your impairment and permitted you to work.
(4)
If you worked more than 6 months.
We will not consider work you performed at the substantial gainful activity earnings level for more than 6 months to be an unsuccessful work attempt regardless of why it ended or was reduced below the substantial gainful activity earnings level.
(d)
Work activity in certain volunteer programs.
If you work as a volunteer in certain programs administered by the Federal government under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 or the Small Business Act, we will not count any payments you receive from these programs as earnings when we determine whether you are engaging in substantial gainful activity. These payments may include a minimal stipend, payments for supportive services such as housing, supplies and equipment, an expense allowance, or reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses. We will also disregard the services you perform as a volunteer in applying any of the substantial gainful activity tests discussed in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. This exclusion from the substantial gainful activity provisions will apply only if you are a volunteer in a program explicitly mentioned in the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 or the Small Business Act. Programs explicitly mentioned in those Acts include Volunteers in Service to America, University Year for ACTION, Special Volunteer Programs, Retired Senior Volunteer Program, Foster Grandparent Program, Service Corps of Retired Executives, and Active Corps of Executives. We will not exclude under this paragraph, volunteer work you perform in other programs or any nonvolunteer work you may perform, including nonvolunteer work under one of the specified programs. For civilians in certain government-sponsored job training and employment programs, we evaluate the work activity on a case-by-case basis under the substantial gainful activity earnings test. In programs such as these, subsidies often occur. We will subtract the value of any subsidy and use the remainder to determine if you have done substantial gainful activity. See paragraphs (a)(2)-(3) of this section.
(e)
Work activity as a member or consultant of an advisory committee established under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), 5 U.S.C. App. 2.
If you are serving as a member or consultant of an advisory committee, board, commission, council, or similar group established under FACA, we will not count any payments you receive from serving on such committees as earnings when we determine whether you are engaging in substantial gainful activity. These payments may include compensation, travel expenses, and special assistance. We also will exclude the services you perform as a member or consultant of an advisory committee established under FACA in applying any of the substantial gainful activity tests discussed in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. This exclusion from the substantial gainful activity provisions will apply only if you are a member or consultant of an advisory committee specifically authorized by statute, or by the President, or determined as a matter of formal record by the head of a federal government agency. This exclusion from the substantial gainful activity provisions will not apply if your service as a member or consultant of an advisory committee is part of your duties or is required as an employee of
any governmental or non-governmental organization, agency, or business.
[46 FR 4869, Jan. 19, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 21936, May 16, 1983; 49 FR 22272, May 29, 1984; 54 FR 53605, Dec. 29, 1989; 64 FR 18570, Apr. 15, 1999; 64 FR 22903, Apr. 28, 1999; 65 FR 42783, July 11, 2000; 65 FR 82910, Dec. 29, 2000; 71 FR 3219, Jan. 20, 2006; 71 FR 66853, Nov. 17, 2006; 81 FR 71369, Oct. 17, 2016]
§ 404.1574a
When and how we will average your earnings.
(a) If your work as an employee or as a self-employed person was continuous without significant change in work patterns or earnings, and there has been no change in the substantial gainful activity earnings levels, we will average your earnings over the entire period of work requiring evaluation to determine if you have done substantial gainful activity. See § 404.1592a for information on the reentitlement period.
(b) If you work over a period of time during which the substantial gainful activity earnings levels change, we will average your earnings separately for each period in which a different substantial gainful activity earnings level applies.
(c) If there is a significant change in your work pattern or earnings during the period of work requiring evaluation, we will average your earnings over each separate period of work to determine if any of your work efforts were substantial gainful activity.
(d) We will not average your earnings in determining whether benefits should be paid for any month(s) during or after the reentitlement period that occurs after the month disability has been determined to have ceased because of the performance of substantial gainful activity. See § 404.1592a for information on the reentitlement period. The following examples illustrate what we mean by a significant change in the work pattern of an employee and when we will average and will not average earnings.

# Example 1:
Mrs. H. began receiving disability insurance benefits in March 1993. In January 1995 she began selling magazines by telephone solicitation, expending a minimum of time, for which she received $225 monthly. As a result, Mrs. H. used up her trial work period during the months of January 1995 through September 1995. After the trial work period ended, we determined that Mrs. H. had not engaged in substantial gainful activity during her trial work period. Her reentitlement period began October 1995. In December 1995, Mrs. H. discontinued her telephone solicitation work to take a course in secretarial skills. In January 1997, she began work as a part-time temporary secretary in a banking firm. Mrs. H. worked 20 hours a week, without any subsidy or impairment-related work expenses, at beginner rates. She earned $285 per month in January 1997 and February 1997. In March 1997 she had increased her secretarial skills to journeyman level and was assigned as a part-time private secretary to one of the vice presidents of the banking firm. Mrs. H.'s earnings increased to $525 per month effective March 1997. We determined that Mrs. H. was engaging in substantial gainful activity beginning March 1997 and that her disability ceased that month, the first month of substantial gainful activity after the end of the trial work period. Mrs. H. is due payment for March 1997, the month of cessation, and the following 2 months (April 1997 and May 1997) because disability benefits terminate the third month following the earliest month in which she performed substantial gainful activity. We did not average earnings for the period January 1997 and February 1997 with the period beginning March 1997 because there was a significant change in earnings and work activity beginning March 1997. Thus, the earnings of January 1997 and February 1997 could not be averaged with those of March 1997 to reduce March 1997 earnings below the substantial gainful activity level. After we determine that Mrs. H.'s disability had ceased because of her performance of substantial gainful activity, we cannot average her earnings to determine whether she is due payment for any month during or after the reentitlement period. Beginning June 1997, the third month following the cessation month, we would evaluate all of Mrs. H.'s work activity on a month-by-month basis (see § 404.1592a(a)).

# Example 2:
Ms. M. began receiving disability insurance benefits in March 1992. In January 1995, she began selling cable television subscriptions by telephone solicitation, expending a minimum of time, for which she received $275 monthly. Ms. M. did not work in June 1995, and she resumed selling cable television subscriptions beginning July 1995. In this way, Ms. M. used up her 9-month trial work period during the months of January 1995 through May 1995 and July 1995 through October 1995. After Ms. M.'s trial work period ended, we determined that she had not engaged in substantial gainful activity during her trial work period. Ms. M.'s reentitlement period began November 1995. In December 1995, Ms. M. discontinued her telephone solicitation work to take a course in secretarial skills. In January 1997,
she began work as a part-time temporary secretary in an accounting firm. Ms. M. worked, without any subsidy or impairment-related work expenses, at beginner rates. She earned $460 in January 1997, $420 in February 1997, and $510 in March 1997. In April 1997, she had increased her secretarial skills to journeyman level, and she was assigned as a part-time private secretary to one of the vice presidents of the firm. Ms. M.'s earnings increased to $860 per month effective April 1997. We determined that Ms. M. was engaging in substantial gainful activity beginning April 1997 and that her disability ceased that month, the first month of substantial gainful activity after the end of the trial work period. She is due payment for April 1997, May 1997 and June 1997, because disability benefits terminate the third month following the earliest month in which she performs substantial gainful activity (the month of cessation). We averaged her earnings for the period January 1997 through March 1997 and determined them to be about $467 per month for that period. We did not average earnings for the period January 1997 through March 1997 with earnings for the period beginning April 1997 because there was a significant change in work activity and earnings beginning April 1997. Therefore, we found that the earnings for January 1997 through March 1997 were under the substantial gainful activity level. After we determine that Ms. M.'s disability has ceased because she performed substantial gainful activity, we cannot average her earnings in determining whether she is due payment for any month during or after the reentitlement period. In this example, beginning July 1997, the third month following the month of cessation, we would evaluate all of Ms. M.'s work activity on a month-by-month basis (see § 404.1592a(a)).
[65 FR 42784, July 11, 2000]
§ 404.1575
Evaluation guides if you are self-employed.
(a)
If you are a self-employed person.
If you are working or have worked as a self-employed person, we will use the provisions in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section that are relevant to your work activity. We will use these provisions whenever they are appropriate, whether in connection with your application for disability benefits (when we make an initial determination on your application and throughout any appeals you may request), after you have become entitled to a period of disability or to disability benefits, or both.
(1)
How we evaluate the work you do after you have become entitled to disability benefits.
If you are entitled to social security disability benefits and you work as a self-employed person, the way we will evaluate your work activity will depend on whether the work activity occurs before or after you have received such benefits for at least 24 months and on the purpose of the evaluation. For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (e) of this section, social security disability benefits means disability insurance benefits for a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability. We will use the rules in paragraph (e)(2) of this section to determine if you have received such benefits for at least 24 months.
(i) We will use the guides in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to evaluate any work activity you do before you have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months to determine whether you have engaged in substantial gainful activity, regardless of the purpose of the evaluation.
(ii) We will use the guides in paragraph (e) of this section to evaluate any work activity you do after you have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months to determine whether you have engaged in substantial gainful activity for the purpose of determining whether your disability has ceased because of your work activity.
(iii) If we have determined under § 404.1592a(a)(1) that your disability ceased in a month during the reentitlement period because you performed substantial gainful activity, and we need to decide under § 404.1592a(a)(2)(i) or (a)(3)(i) whether you are doing substantial gainful activity in a subsequent month in or after your reentitlement period, we will use the guides in paragraph (a)(2) of this section (subject to the limitations described in § 404.1592a(a)(2)(i) and (a)(3)(i)) to determine whether your work activity in that month is substantial gainful activity. We will use the guides in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for these purposes, regardless of whether your work activity in that month occurs before or after you have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months.
(2)
General rules for evaluating your work activity if you are self-employed.
We will consider your activities and their value to your business to decide whether you have engaged in substantial gainful activity if you are self-employed. We will not consider your income alone because the amount of income you actually receive may depend on a number of different factors, such as capital investment and profit-sharing agreements. We will generally consider work that you were forced to stop or reduce to below substantial gainful activity after 6 months or less because of your impairment as an unsuccessful work attempt. See paragraph (d) of this section. We will evaluate your work activity based on the value of your services to the business regardless of whether you receive an immediate income for your services. We determine whether you have engaged in substantial gainful activity by applying three tests. If you have not engaged in substantial gainful activity under test one, then we will consider tests two and three. The tests are as follows:
(i)
Test one:
You have engaged in substantial gainful activity if you render services that are significant to the operation of the business and receive a substantial income from the business. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section explain what we mean by significant services and substantial income for purposes of this test.
(ii)
Test Two:
You have engaged in substantial gainful activity if your work activity, in terms of factors such as hours, skills, energy output, efficiency, duties, and responsibilities, is comparable to that of unimpaired individuals in your community who are in the same or similar businesses as their means of livelihood.
(iii)
Test Three:
You have engaged in substantial gainful activity if your work activity, although not comparable to that of unimpaired individuals, is clearly worth the amount shown in § 404.1574(b)(2) when considered in terms of its value to the business, or when compared to the salary that an owner would pay to an employee to do the work you are doing.
(b)
What we mean by significant services.
(1) If you are not a farm landlord and you operate a business entirely by yourself, any services that you render are significant to the business. If your business involves the services of more than one person, we will consider you to be rendering significant services if you contribute more than half the total time required for the management of the business, or you render management services for more than 45 hours a month regardless of the total management time required by the business.
(2) If you are a farm landlord, that is, you rent farm land to another, we will consider you to be rendering significant services if you materially participate in the production or the management of the production of the things raised on the rented farm. (See § 404.1082 of this chapter for an explanation of
material participation.
) If you were given social security earnings credits because you materially participated in the activities of the farm and you continue these same activities, we will consider you to be rendering significant services.
(c)
What we mean by substantial income
—(1)
Determining countable income.
We deduct your normal business expenses from your gross income to determine net income. Once we determine your net income, we deduct the reasonable value of any significant amount of unpaid help furnished by your spouse, children, or others. Miscellaneous duties that ordinarily would not have commercial value would not be considered significant. We deduct impairment-related work expenses that have not already been deducted in determining your net income. Impairment-related work expenses are explained in § 404.1576. We deduct unincurred business expenses paid for you by another individual or agency. An unincurred business expense occurs when a sponsoring agency or another person incurs responsibility for the payment of certain business expenses, e.g., rent, utilities, or purchases and repair of equipment, or provides you with equipment, stock, or other material for the operation of your business. We deduct soil bank payments if they were included as farm income. That part of your income remaining after we have made all applicable deductions represents the actual value of work
performed. The resulting amount is the amount we use to determine if you have done substantial gainful activity. For purposes of this section, we refer to this amount as your countable income. We will generally average your countable income for comparison with the earnings guidelines in § 404.1574(b)(2). See § 404.1574a for our rules on averaging of earnings.
(2)
When countable income is considered substantial.
We will consider your countable income to be substantial if—
(i) It averages more than the amounts described in § 404.1574(b)(2); or
(ii) It averages less than the amounts described in § 404.1574(b)(2) but it is either comparable to what it was before you became seriously impaired if we had not considered your earnings or is comparable to that of unimpaired self-employed persons in your community who are in the same or a similar business as their means of livelihood.
(d)
The unsuccessful work attempt
—(1)
General.
Ordinarily, work you have done will not show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity if, after working for a period of 6 months or less, you were forced by your impairment to stop working or to reduce the amount of work you do so that you are no longer performing substantial gainful activity and you meet the conditions described in paragraphs (d)(2), (3), and (4) of this section. We will use the provisions of this paragraph when we make an initial determination on your application for disability benefits and throughout any appeal you may request. Except as set forth in § 404.1592a(a), we will also apply the provisions of this paragraph if you are already entitled to disability benefits, when you work and we consider whether the work you are doing is substantial gainful activity or demonstrates the ability to do substantial gainful activity.
(2)
Event that must precede an unsuccessful work attempt.
There must be a significant break in the continuity of your work before we will consider you to have begun a work attempt that later proved unsuccessful. You must have stopped working or reduced your work and earnings below substantial gainful activity because of your impairment or because of the removal of special conditions which took into account your impairment and permitted you to work. Examples of such special conditions may include any significant amount of unpaid help furnished by your spouse, children, or others, or unincurred business expenses, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, paid for you by another individual or agency. We will consider your prior work to be “discontinued” for a significant period if you were out of work at least 30 consecutive days. We will also consider your prior work to be “discontinued” if, because of your impairment, you were forced to change to another type of work.
(3)
If you worked 6 months or less.
We will consider work of 6 months or less to be an unsuccessful work attempt if you stopped working or you reduced your work and earnings below the substantial gainful activity earnings level because of your impairment or because of the removal of special conditions that took into account your impairment and permitted you to work.
(4)
If you worked more than 6 months.
We will not consider work you performed at the substantial gainful activity level for more than 6 months to be an unsuccessful work attempt regardless of why it ended or was reduced below the substantial gainful activity earnings level.
(e)
Special rules for evaluating the work you do after you have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months
—(1)
General.
We will apply the provisions of this paragraph to evaluate the work you are doing or have done if, at the time you do the work, you are entitled to social security disability benefits and you have received such benefits for at least 24 months. We will apply the provisions of this paragraph only when we are evaluating that work to consider whether you have engaged in substantial gainful activity or demonstrated the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity for the purpose of determining whether your disability has ceased because of your work activity (see §§ 404.1592a(a)(1) and (3)(ii) and 404.1594(d)(5) and (f)(1)). We will use the countable income test described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section to determine whether the work you do after you have received such
benefits for at least 24 months is substantial gainful activity or demonstrates the ability to do substantial gainful activity. We will not consider the services you perform in that work to determine that the work you are doing shows that you are able to engage in substantial gainful activity and are, therefore, no longer disabled. However, we may consider the services you perform to determine that you are not doing substantial gainful activity. We will generally consider work that you were forced to stop or reduce below substantial gainful activity after 6 months or less because of your impairment as an unsuccessful work attempt. See paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
The 24-month requirement.
For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (e) of this section, we consider you to have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months beginning with the first day of the first month following the 24th month for which you actually received social security disability benefits that you were due or constructively received such benefits. The 24 months do not have to be consecutive. We will consider you to have constructively received a benefit for a month for purposes of the 24-month requirement if you were otherwise due a social security disability benefit for that month and your monthly benefit was withheld to recover an overpayment. Any months for which you were entitled to benefits but for which you did not actually or constructively receive a benefit payment will not be counted for the 24-month requirement. If you also receive supplemental security income payments based on disability or blindness under title XVI of the Social Security Act, months for which you received only supplemental security income payments will not be counted for the 24-month requirement.
(3)
Countable income test.
We will compare your countable income to the earnings guidelines in § 404.1574(b)(2) to determine if you have engaged in substantial gainful activity. See paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an explanation of countable income. We will consider that you have engaged in substantial gainful activity if your monthly countable income averages more than the amounts described in § 404.1574(b)(2) for the month(s) in which you work, unless the evidence shows that you did not render significant services in the month(s). See paragraph (b) of this section for what we mean by significant services. If your average monthly countable income is equal to or less than the amounts in § 404.1574(b)(2) for the month(s) in which you work, or if the evidence shows that you did not render significant services in the month(s), we will consider that your work as a self-employed person shows that you have not engaged in substantial gainful activity.
[46 FR 4870, Jan. 19, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 21936, May 16, 1983; 49 FR 22272, May 29, 1984; 65 FR 42785, July 11, 2000; 71 FR 66854, Nov. 17, 2006; 81 FR 71369, Oct. 17, 2016]
§ 404.1576
Impairment-related work expenses.
(a)
General.
When we figure your earnings in deciding if you have done substantial gainful activity, we will subtract the reasonable costs to you of certain items and services which, because of your impairment(s), you need and use to enable you to work. The costs are deductible even though you also need or use the items and services to carry out daily living functions unrelated to your work. Paragraph (b) of this section explains the conditions for deducting work expenses. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the expenses we will deduct. Paragraph (d) of this section explains when expenses may be deducted. Paragraph (e) of this section describes how expenses may be allocated. Paragraph (f) of this section explains the limitations on deducting expenses. Paragraph (g) of this section explains our verification procedures.
(b)
Conditions for deducting impairment-related work expenses.
We will deduct impairment-related work expenses if—
(1) You are otherwise disabled as defined in §§ 404.1505, 404.1577 and 404.1581-404.1583;
(2) The severity of your impairment(s) requires you to purchase (or rent) certain items and services in order to work;
(3) You pay the cost of the item or service. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that payment has been or
will be made by another source. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that you have been, could be, or will be reimbursed for such cost by any other source (such as through a private insurance plan, Medicare or Medicaid, or other plan or agency). For example, if you purchase crutches for $80 but you were, could be, or will be reimbursed $64 by some agency, plan, or program, we will deduct only $16;
(4) You pay for the item or service in a month you are working (in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section); and
(5) Your payment is in cash (including checks or other forms of money). Payment in kind is not deductible.
(c)
What expenses may be deducted
—(1)
Payments for attendant care services.
(i) If because of your impairment(s) you need assistance in traveling to and from work, or while at work you need assistance with personal functions (e.g., eating, toileting) or with work-related functions (e.g., reading, communicating), the payments you make for those services may be deducted.
(ii) If because of your impairment(s) you need assistance with personal functions (e.g., dressing, administering medications) at home in preparation for going to and assistance in returning from work, the payments you make for those services may be deducted.
(iii)(A) We will deduct payments you make to a family member for attendant care services only if such person, in order to perform the services, suffers an economic loss by terminating his or her employment or by reducing the number of hours he or she worked.
(B) We consider a family member to be anyone who is related to you by blood, marriage or adoption, whether or not that person lives with you.
(iv) If only part of your payment to a person is for services that come under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, we will only deduct that part of the payment which is attributable to those services. For example, an attendant gets you ready for work and helps you in returning from work, which takes about 2 hours a day. The rest of his or her 8 hour day is spent cleaning your house and doing your laundry, etc. We would only deduct one-fourth of the attendant's daily wages as an impairment-related work expense.
(2)
Payments for medical devices.
If your impairment(s) requires that you utilize medical devices in order to work, the payments you make for those devices may be deducted. As used in this subparagraph, medical devices include durable medical equipment which can withstand repeated use, is customarily used for medical purposes, and is generally not useful to a person in the absence of an illness or injury. Examples of durable medical equipment are wheelchairs, hemodialysis equipment, canes, crutches, inhalators and pacemakers.
(3)
Payments for prosthetic devices.
If your impairment(s) requires that you utilize a prosthetic device in order to work, the payments you make for that device may be deducted. A prosthetic device is that which replaces an internal body organ or external body part. Examples of prosthetic devices are artificial replacements of arms, legs and other parts of the body.
(4)
Payments for equipment.
(i)
Work-related equipment.
If your impairment(s) requires that you utilize special equipment in order to do your job, the payments you make for that equipment may be deducted. Examples of work-related equipment are one-hand typewriters, vision aids, sensory aids for the blind, telecommunication devices for the deaf and tools specifically designed to accommodate a person's impairment(s).
(ii)
Residential modifications.
If your impairment(s) requires that you make modifications to your residence, the location of your place of work will determine if the cost of these modifications will be deducted. If you are employed away from home, only the cost of changes made outside of your home to permit you to get to your means of transportation (e.g., the installation of an exterior ramp for a wheelchair confined person or special exterior railings or pathways for someone who requires crutches) will be deducted. Costs relating to modifications of the inside of your home will not be deducted. If you work at home, the costs of modifying the inside of your home in order to create a working space to accommodate your impairment(s) will be deducted to
the extent that the changes pertain specifically to the space in which you work. Examples of such changes are the enlargement of a doorway leading into the workspace or modification of the workspace to accommodate problems in dexterity. However, if you are self-employed at home, any cost deducted as a business expense cannot be deducted as an impairment-related work expense.
(iii)
Nonmedical appliances and equipment.
Expenses for appliances and equipment which you do not ordinarily use for medical purposes are generally not deductible. Examples of these items are portable room heaters, air conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, and electric air cleaners. However, expenses for such items may be deductible when unusual circumstances clearly establish an impairment-related and medically verified need for such an item because it is essential for the control of your disabling condition, thus enabling you to work. To be considered essential, the item must be of such a nature that if it were not available to you there would be an immediate adverse impact on your ability to function in your work activity. In this situation, the expense is deductible whether the item is used at home or in the working place. An example would be the need for an electric air cleaner by an individual with severe respiratory disease who cannot function in a non-purified air environment. An item such as an exercycle is not deductible if used for general physical fitness. If it is prescribed and used as necessary treatment of your impairment and necessary to enable you to work, we will deduct payments you make toward its cost.
(5)
Payments for drugs and medical services.
(i) If you must use drugs or medical services (including diagnostic procedures) to control your impairment(s) the payments you make for them may be deducted. The drugs or services must be prescribed (or utilized) to reduce or eliminate symptoms of your impairment(s) or to slow down its progression. The diagnostic procedures must be performed to ascertain how the impairment(s) is progressing or to determine what type of treatment should be provided for the impairment(s).
(ii) Examples of deductible drugs and medical services are anticonvulsant drugs to control epilepsy or anticonvulsant blood level monitoring; antidepressant medication for mental disorders; medication used to allay the side effects of certain treatments; radiation treatment or chemotherapy for cancer patients; corrective surgery for spinal disorders; electroencephalograms and brain scans related to a disabling epileptic condition; tests to determine the efficacy of medication on a diabetic condition; and immunosuppressive medications that kidney transplant patients regularly take to protect against graft rejection.
(iii) We will only deduct the costs of drugs or services that are directly related to your impairment(s). Examples of non-deductible items are routine annual physical examinations, optician services (unrelated to a disabling visual impairment) and dental examinations.
(6)
Payments for similar items and services
—(i)
General.
If you are required to utilize items and services not specified in paragraphs (c) (1) through (5) of this section but which are directly related to your impairment(s) and which you need to work, their costs are deductible. Examples of such items and services are medical supplies and services not discussed above, the purchase and maintenance of a dog guide which you need to work, and transportation.
(ii)
Medical supplies and services not described above.
We will deduct payments you make for expendable medical supplies, such as incontinence pads, catheters, bandages, elastic stockings, face masks, irrigating kits, and disposable sheets and bags. We will also deduct payments you make for physical therapy which you require because of your impairment(s) and which you need in order to work.
(iii)
Payments for transportation costs.
We will deduct transportation costs in these situations:
(A) Your impairment(s) requires that in order to get to work you need a vehicle that has structural or operational modifications. The modifications must be critical to your operation or use of the vehicle and directly related to your
impairment(s). We will deduct the costs of the modifications, but not the cost of the vehicle. We will also deduct a mileage allowance for the trip to and from work. The allowance will be based on data compiled by the Federal Highway Administration relating to vehicle operating costs.
(B) Your impairment(s) requires you to use driver assistance, taxicabs or other hired vehicles in order to work. We will deduct amounts paid to the driver and, if your own vehicle is used, we will also deduct a mileage allowance, as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, for the trip to and from work.
(C) Your impairment(s) prevents your taking available public transportation to and from work and you must drive your (unmodified) vehicle to work. If we can verify through your physician or other sources that the need to drive is caused by your impairment(s) (and not due to the unavailability of public transportation), we will deduct a mileage allowance, as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, for the trip to and from work.
(7)
Payments for installing, maintaining, and repairing deductible items.
If the device, equipment, appliance, etc., that you utilize qualifies as a deductible item as described in paragraphs (c) (2), (3), (4) and (6) of this section, the costs directly related to installing, maintaining and repairing these items are also deductible. (The costs which are associated with modifications to a vehicle are deductible. Except for a mileage allowance, as provided for in paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section, the costs which are associated with the vehicle itself are not deductible.)
(d)
When expenses may be deducted
—(1)
Effective date.
To be deductible an expense must be incurred after November 30, 1980. An expense may be considered incurred after that date if it is paid thereafter even though pursuant to a contract or other arrangement entered into before December 1, 1980.
(2)
Payments for services.
A payment you make for services may be deducted if the services are received while you are working and the payment is made in a month you are working. We consider you to be working even though you must leave work temporarily to receive the services.
(3)
Payments for items.
A payment you make toward the cost of a deductible item (regardless of when it is acquired) may be deducted if payment is made in a month you are working. See paragraph (e)(4) of this section when purchases are made in anticipation of work.
(e)
How expenses are allocated
—(1)
Recurring expenses.
You may pay for services on a regular periodic basis, or you may purchase an item on credit and pay for it in regular periodic installments or you may rent an item. If so, each payment you make for the services and each payment you make toward the purchase or rental (including interest) is deductible in the month it is made.

# Example:
B starts work in October 1981 at which time she purchases a medical device at a cost of $4,800 plus interest charges of $720. Her monthly payments begin in October. She earns and receives $400 a month. The term of the installment contract is 48 months. No downpayment is made. The monthly allowable deduction for the item would be $115 ($5520 divided by 48) for each month of work during the 48 months.
(2)
Nonrecurring expenses.
Part or all of your expenses may not be recurring. For example, you may make a one-time payment in full for an item or service or make a downpayment. If you are working when you make the payment we will either deduct the entire amount in the month you pay it or allocate the amount over a 12 consecutive month period beginning with the month of payment, whichever you select.

# Example:
A begins working in October 1981 and earns $525 a month. In the same month he purchases and pays for a deductible item at a cost of $250. In this situation we could allow a $250 deduction for October 1981, reducing A's earnings below the SGA level for that month.
If A's earnings had been $15 above the SGA earnings amount, A probably would select the option of projecting the $250 payment over the 12-month period, October 1981-September 1982, giving A an allowable deduction of $20.83 a month for each month of work during that period. This deduction would reduce A's earnings below the SGA level for 12 months.
(3)
Allocating downpayments.
If you make a downpayment we will, if you choose, make a separate calculation for the downpayment in order to provide for uniform monthly deductions. In these situations we will determine the total payment that you will make over a 12 consecutive month period beginning with the month of the downpayment and allocate that amount over the 12 months. Beginning with the 13th month, the regular monthly payment will be deductible. This allocation process will be for a shorter period if your regular monthly payments will extend over a period of less than 12 months.

# Example 1.
C starts working in October 1981, at which time he purchases special equipment at a cost of $4,800, paying $1,200 down. The balance of $3,600, plus interest of $540, is to be repaid in 36 installments of $115 a month beginning November 1981. C earns $500 a month. He chooses to have the downpayment allocated. In this situation we would allow a deduction of $205.42 a month for each month of work during the period October 1981 through September 1982. After September 1982, the deduction amount would be the regular monthly payment of $115 for each month of work during the remaining installment period.
Explanation:
Downpayment in 10/81
$1,200
Monthly payments 11/81 through 09/82
1,265
12) 2,465
= $205.42

# Example 2.
D, while working, buys a deductible item in July 1981, paying $1,450 down. However, his first monthly payment of $125 is not due until September 1981. D chooses to have the downpayment allocated. In this situation we would allow a deduction of $225 a month for each month of work during the period July 1981 through June 1982. After June 1982, the deduction amount would be the regular monthly payment of $125 for each month of work.
Explanation:
Downpayment in 07/81
$1,450
Monthly payments 09/81 through 06/82
1,250
12) 2,700
= $225
(4)
Payments made in anticipation of work.
A payment toward the cost of a deductible item that you made in any of the 11 months preceding the month you started working will be taken into account in determining your impairment-related work expenses. When an item is paid for in full during the 11 months preceding the month you started working the payment will be allocated over the 12-consecutive month period beginning with the month of the payment. However, the only portion of the payment which may be deductible is the portion allocated to the month work begins and the following months. For example, if an item is purchased 3 months before the month work began and is paid for with a one-time payment of $600, the deductible amount would be $450 ($600 divided by 12, multiplied by 9). Installment payments (including a downpayment) that you made for a particular item during the 11 months preceding the month you started working will be totaled and considered to have been made in the month of your first payment for that item within this 11 month period. The sum of these payments will be allocated over the 12-consecutive month period beginning with the month of your first payment (but never earlier than 11 months before the month work began). However, the only portion of the total which may be deductible is the portion allocated to the month work begins and the following months. For example, if an item is purchased 3 months before the month work began and is paid for in 3 monthly installments of $200 each, the total payment of $600 will be considered to have been made in the month of the first payment, that is, 3 months before the month work began. The deductible amount would be $450 ($600 divided by 12, multiplied by 9). The amount, as determined by these formulas, will then be considered to have been paid in the first month of work. We will deduct either this entire amount in the first month of work or allocate it over a 12-consecutive month period beginning with the first month of work, whichever you select. In the above examples, the individual would have the choice of having the entire $450 deducted in the first month of work or of having $37.50 a month ($450 divided by 12) deducted for each month that he works over a 12-consecutive month period, beginning with the first month of work. To be deductible the payments must be for durable items such as medical devices, prostheses, work-related equipment, residential modifications, nonmedical appliances
and vehicle modifications. Payments for services and expendable items such as drugs, oxygen, diagnostic procedures, medical supplies and vehicle operating costs are not deductible for purposes of this paragraph.
(f)
Limits on deductions.
(1) We will deduct the actual amounts you pay towards your impairment-related work expenses unless the amounts are unreasonable. With respect to durable medical equipment, prosthetic devices, medical services, and similar medically-related items and services, we will apply the prevailing charges under Medicare (part B of title XVIII, Health Insurance for the Aged and Disabled) to the extent that this information is readily available. Where the Medicare guides are used, we will consider the amount that you pay to be reasonable if it is no more than the prevailing charge for the same item or service under the Medicare guidelines. If the amount you actually pay is more than the prevailing charge for the same item under the Medicare guidelines, we will deduct from your earnings the amount you paid to the extent you establish that the amount is consistent with the standard or normal charge for the same or similar item or service in your community. For items and services that are not listed in the Medicare guidelines, and for items and services that are listed in the Medicare guidelines but for which such guides cannot be used because the information is not readily available, we will consider the amount you pay to be reasonable if it does not exceed the standard or normal charge for the same or similar item(s) or service(s) in your community.
(2) Impairment-related work expenses are not deducted in computing your earnings for purposes of determining whether your work was “services” as described in § 404.1592(b).
(3) The decision as to whether you performed substantial gainful activity in a case involving impairment-related work expenses for items or services necessary for you to work generally will be based upon your “earnings” and not on the value of “services” you rendered. (See §§ 404.1574(b)(6) (i) and (ii), and 404.1575(a)). This is not necessarily so, however, if you are in a position to control or manipulate your earnings.
(4) The amount of the expenses to be deducted must be determined in a uniform manner in both the disability insurance and SSI programs.
(5) No deduction will be allowed to the extent that any other source has paid or will pay for an item or service. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that you have been, could be, or will be, reimbursed for payments you made. (See paragraph (b)(3) of this section.)
(6) The provisions described in the foregoing paragraphs of this section are effective with respect to expenses incurred on and after December 1, 1980, although expenses incurred after November 1980 as a result of contractual or other arrangements entered into before December 1980, are deductible. For months before December 1980 we will deduct impairment-related work expenses from your earnings only to the extent they exceeded the normal work-related expenses you would have had if you did not have your impairment(s). We will not deduct expenses, however, for those things which you needed even when you were not working.
(g)
Verification.
We will verify your need for items or services for which deductions are claimed, and the amount of the charges for those items or services. You will also be asked to provide proof that you paid for the items or services.
[48 FR 21936, May 16, 1983]

# Widows, Widowers, and Surviving Divorced Spouses
§ 404.1577
Disability defined for widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses for monthly benefits payable for months prior to January 1991.
For monthly benefits payable for months prior to January 1991, the law provides that to be entitled to a widow's or widower's benefit as a disabled widow, widower, or surviving divorced spouse, you must have a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. The impairment(s) must have been of a level of severity to prevent a person from doing
any gainful activity. To determine whether you were disabled, we consider only your physical or mental impairment(s). We do not consider your age, education, and work experience. We also do not consider certain felony-related and prison-related impairments, as explained in § 404.1506. (For monthly benefits payable for months after December 1990, see § 404.1505(a).)
[57 FR 30120, July 8, 1992]
§ 404.1578
How we determine disability for widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses for monthly benefits payable for months prior to January 1991.
(a) For monthly benefits payable for months prior to January 1991, we will find that you were disabled and pay you widow's or widower's benefits as a widow, widower, or surviving divorced spouse if—
(1) Your impairment(s) had specific clinical findings that were the same as those for any impairment in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of this subpart or were medically equivalent to those for any impairment shown there;
(2) Your impairment(s) met the duration requirement.
(b) However, even if you met the requirements in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section, we will not find you disabled if you were doing substantial gainful activity.
[57 FR 30121, July 8, 1992]
§ 404.1579
How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends.
(a)
General.
(1) The rules for determining whether disability continues for widow's or widower's monthly benefits for months after December 1990 are discussed in §§ 404.1594 through 404.1598. The rules for determining whether disability continues for monthly benefits for months prior to January 1991 are discussed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section.
(2) If you are entitled to disability benefits as a disabled widow, widower, or surviving divorced spouse, and we must decide whether your disability continued or ended for monthly benefits for months prior to January 1991, there are a number of factors we consider in deciding whether your disability continued. We must determine if there has been any medical improvement in your impairment(s) and, if so, whether this medical improvement is related to your ability to work. If your impairment(s) has not so medically improved, we must address whether one or more exceptions applies. If medical improvement related to your ability to work has not occurred and no exception applies, your benefits will continue. Even where medical improvement related to your ability to work has occurred or an exception applies, in most cases (see paragraph (e) of this section for exceptions) before we can find that you are no longer disabled, we must also show that your impairment(s), as shown by current medical evidence, is no longer deemed, under appendix 1 of this subpart, sufficient to preclude you from engaging in gainful activity.
(b)
Terms and definitions.
There are several terms and definitions which are important to know in order to understand how we review your claim to determine whether your disability continues.
(1)
Medical improvement.
Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of your impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled. A determination that there has been a decrease in medical severity must be based on improvement in the symptoms, signs, and/or laboratory findings associated with your impairment(s).

# Example 1:
You were awarded disability benefits due to a herniated nucleus pulposus which was determined to equal the level of severity contemplated by Listing 1.05.C. At the time of our prior favorable decision, you had had a laminectomy. Postoperatively, a myelogram still showed evidence of a persistent deficit in your lumbar spine. You had pain in your back, and pain and a burning sensation in your right foot and leg. There were no muscle weakness or neurological changes and a modest decrease in motion in your back and leg. When we reviewed your claim your treating physician reported that he had seen you regularly every 2 to 3 months for the past 2 years. No further myelograms had been done, complaints of
pain in the back and right leg continued especially on sitting or standing for more than a short period of time. Your doctor further reported a moderately decreased range of motion in your back and right leg, but again no muscle atrophy or neurological changes were reported. Medical improvement has
not
occurred because there has been no decrease in the severity of your back impairment as shown by changes in symptoms, signs, or laboratory findings.

# Example 2:
You were awarded disability benefits due to rheumatoid arthritis of a severity as described in Listing 1.02 of appendix 1 of this subpart. At the time, laboratory findings were positive for this condition. Your doctor reported persistent swelling and tenderness of your fingers and wrists and that you complained of joint pain. Current medical evidence shows that while laboratory tests are still positive for rheumatoid arthritis, your impairment has responded favorably to therapy so that for the last year your fingers and wrists have not been significantly swollen or painful. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of your impairment as documented by the current symptoms and signs reported by your physician. Although your impairment is subject to temporary remissions and exacerbations the improvement that has occurred has been sustained long enough to permit a finding of medical improvement. We would then determine if this medical improvement is related to your ability to work.
(2)
Determining whether medical improvement is related to your ability to work.
If medical improvement has occurred and the severity of the prior impairment(s) no longer meets or equals the listing section which was used in making our most recent favorable decision, we will find that the medical improvement was related to your ability to work. We make this finding because the criteria in appendix 1 of this subpart are related to ability to work because they reflect impairments which are considered severe enough to prevent a person from doing any gainful work. We must, of course, also establish that, considering all of your current impairments not just those which existed at the time of the most recent prior favorable medical decision, your condition does not meet or equal the requirements of appendix 1 before we could find that your disability has ended. If there has been any medical improvement in your impairment(s), but it is not related to your ability to do work and none of the exceptions applies, your benefits will be continued.
(3)
Determining whether your impairment(s) is deemed, under appendix 1 of this subpart, sufficient to preclude you from engaging in gainful activity.
Even where medical improvement related to your ability to work has occurred or an exception applies, in most cases before we can find that you are no longer disabled, we must also show that your impairment(s) is no longer deemed, under appendix 1 of this subpart, sufficient to preclude you from engaging in gainful activity. All current impairments will be considered, not just the impairment(s) present at the time of our most recent favorable determination. Sections 404.1525, 404.1526, and 404.1578 set out how we will decide whether your impairment(s) meets or equals the requirements of appendix 1 of this subpart.
(4)
Evidence and basis for our decision.
Our decisions under this section will be made on a neutral basis without any initial inference as to the presence or absence of disability being drawn from the fact that you have previously been determined to be disabled. We will consider all evidence you submit and that we obtain from your medical sources and nonmedical sources. What constitutes “evidence” and our procedures for obtaining it are set out in §§ 404.1512 through 404.1518. Our determination regarding whether your disability continues will be made on the basis of the weight of the evidence.
(5)
Point of comparison.
For purposes of determining whether medical improvement has occurred, we will compare the current severity of that impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled to the medical severity of that impairment(s) at that time. If medical improvement has occurred, we will determine whether the medical improvement is related to your ability to do work based on this previously existing impairment(s). The most recent favorable medical decision is the latest decision involving a consideration of the medical evidence and the issue of whether you were disabled or continued to be disabled which became final.
(c)
Determining medical improvement and its relationship to your ability to do work.
Paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section discuss what we mean by medical improvement and how we determine whether medical improvement is related to your ability to work.
(1)
Medical improvement.
Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled. Whether medical improvement has occurred is determined by a comparison of prior and current medical evidence which must show that there have been changes (improvement) in the symptoms, signs or laboratory findings associated with that impairment(s).
(2)
Determining whether medical improvement is related to ability to work.
If there is a decrease in medical severity as shown by the signs, symptoms and laboratory findings, we then must determine if it is related to your ability to do work, as explained in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In determining if the medical improvement that has occurred is related to your ability to work, we will assess whether the previously existing impairments still meet or equal the level of severity contemplated by the same listing section in appendix 1 of this subpart which was used in making our most recent favorable decision. Appendix 1 of this subpart describes impairments which, if severe enough, affect a person's ability to work. If the appendix level of severity is met or equaled, the individual is deemed, in the absence of evidence of the contrary, to be unable to engage in gainful activity. If there has been medical improvement to the degree that the requirement of the listing section is no longer met or equaled, then the medical improvement is related to your ability to work. Unless an objective assessment shows that the listing requirement is no longer met or equaled based on actual changes shown by the medical evidence, the medical improvement that has occurred will not be considered to be related to your ability to work.
(3)
Prior file cannot be located.
If the prior file cannot be located, we will first determine whether your current impairment(s) is deemed, under appendix 1 of this subpart, sufficient to preclude you from engaging in gainful activity. (In this way, we will be able to determine that your disability continues at the earliest time without addressing the issue of reconstructing prior evidence which can be a lengthy process.) If so, your benefits will continue unless one of the second group of exceptions applies (see paragraph (e) of this section). If not, we will determine whether an attempt should be made to reconstruct those portions of the file that were relevant to our most recent favorable medical decision (e.g., medical evidence from treating sources and the results of consultative examinations). This determination will consider the potential availability of old records in light of their age, whether the source of the evidence is still in operation, etc.; and whether reconstruction efforts will yield a complete record of the basis for the most recent favorable medical decision. If relevant parts of the prior record are not reconstructed either because it is determined not to attempt reconstruction or because such efforts fail, medical improvement cannot be found. The documentation of your current impairments will provide a basis for any future reviews. If the missing file is later found, it may serve as a basis for reopening any decision under this section in accordance with the rules in § 404.988.
(4)
Impairment(s) subject to temporary remission.
In some cases the evidence shows that an individual's impairment is subject to temporary remission. In assessing whether medical improvement has occurred in persons with this type of impairment, we will be careful to consider the longitudinal history of the impairment(s), including the occurrence of prior remissions, and prospects for future worsening of the impairment(s). Improvement in such impairments that is only temporary will not warrant a finding of medical improvement.
(5)
Applicable listing has been revised since the most recent favorable medical decision.
When determining whether any medical improvement is related to your ability to work, we use the same listing section in appendix 1 of this
subpart which was used to make our prior favorable decision. We will use the listing as it appeared at the time of the prior decision, even where the requirement(s) of the listing was subsequently changed. The current revised listing requirement will be used if we determine that you have medically improved and it is necessary to determine whether you are now considered unable to engage in gainful activity.
(d)
First group of exceptions to medical improvement.
The law provides for certain limited situations when your disability can be found to have ended even though medical improvement has not occurred, if your impairment(s) is no longer considered, under appendix 1 of this subpart, sufficient to preclude you from engaging in gainful activity. These exceptions to medical improvement are intended to provide a way of finding that a person is no longer disabled in those limited situations where, even though there has been no decrease in severity of the impairment(s), evidence shows that the person should no longer be considered disabled or never should have been considered disabled. If one of these exceptions applies, before we can find you are no longer disabled, we must also show that, taking all your current impairment(s) into account, not just those that existed at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision, your impairment(s) is no longer deemed, under appendix 1 of this subpart, sufficient to preclude you from engaging in gainful activity. As part of the review process, you will be asked about any medical therapy you received or are receiving. Your answers and the evidence gathered as a result as well as all other evidence, will serve as the basis for the finding that an exception does or does not apply.
(1)
Substantial evidence shows that you are the beneficiary of advances in medical therapy or technology (related to your ability to work).
Advances in medical therapy or technology are improvements in treatment or rehabilitative methods which have favorably affected the severity of your impairment(s). We will apply this exception when substantial evidence shows that you have been the beneficiary of services which reflect these advances and they have favorably affected the severity of your impairment(s). This decision will be based on new medical evidence. In many instances, an advanced medical therapy or technology will result in a decrease in severity as shown by symptoms, signs and laboratory findings which will meet the definition of medical improvement. This exception will, therefore, see very limited application.
(2)
Substantial evidence shows that based on new or improved diagnostic or evaluative techniques your impairment(s) is not as disabling as it was considered to be at the time of the most recent favorable decision.
Changing methodologies and advances in medical and other diagnostic or evaluative techniques have given, and will continue to give, rise to improved methods for measuring and documenting the effect of various impairments on the ability to do work. Where, by such new or improved methods, substantial evidence shows that your impairment(s) is not as severe as was determined at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision, such evidence may serve as a basis for finding that you are no longer disabled, if your impairment(s) is no longer deemed, under appendix 1 of this subpart, sufficient to preclude you from engaging in gainful activity. In order to be used under this exception, however, the new or improved techniques must have become generally available after the date of our most recent favorable medical decision.
(i)
How we will determine which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
New or improved diagnostic techniques or evaluations will come to our attention by several methods. In reviewing cases, we often become aware of new techniques when their results are presented as evidence. Such techniques and evaluations are also discussed and acknowledged in medical literature by medical professional groups and other governmental entities. Through these sources, we develop listings of new techniques and when they become generally available. For example, we will consult the Health Care Financing Administration for its experience regarding when a technique is recognized for payment under Medicare and when they began paying for the technique.
(ii)
How you will know which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
We will let you know which methods we consider to be new or improved techniques and when they become available through two vehicles.
(A) Some of the future changes in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of this subpart will be based on new or improved diagnostic or evaluative techniques. Such listing changes will clearly state this fact as they are published as Notices of Proposed Rulemaking and the new or improved technique will be considered generally available as of the date of the final publication of that particular listing in the
Federal Register.
(B) A cumulative list since 1970 of new or improved diagnostic techniques or evaluations, how they changed the evaluation of the applicable impairment and the month and year they became generally available, will be published in the
Notices
section of the
Federal Register.
Included will be any changes in the Listing of Impairments published in the Code of Federal Regulations since 1970 which are reflective of new or improved techniques. No cases will be processed under this exception until this cumulative listing is so published. Subsequent changes to the list will be published periodically. The period will be determined by the volume of changes needed.

# Example:
The electrocardiographic exercise test has replaced the Master's 2-step test as a measurement of heart function since the time of your last favorable medical decision. Current evidence could show that your condition, which was previously evaluated based on the Master's 2-step test, is not now as disabling as was previously thought. If, taking all your current impairments into account, you are now able to engage in gainful activity, this exception would be used to find that you are no longer disabled even if medical improvement has not occurred.
(3)
Substantial evidence demonstrates that any prior disability decision was in error.
We will apply the exception to medical improvement based on error if substantial evidence (which may be evidence on the record at the time any prior determination of the entitlement to benefits based on disability was made, or newly obtained evidence which relates to that determination) demonstrates that a prior determination was in error. A prior determination will be found in error only if:
(i) Substantial evidence shows on its face that the decision in question should not have been made (e.g., the evidence in your file such as pulmonary function study values was misread or an adjudicative standard such as a listing in appendix 1 of this subpart was misapplied).

# Example:
You were granted benefits when it was determined that your epilepsy met Listing 11.02. This listing calls for a finding of major motor seizures more frequently than once a month as documented by EEG evidence and by a detailed description of a typical seizure pattern. A history of either diurnal episodes or nocturnal episodes with residuals interfering with daily activities is also required. On review, it is found that a history of the frequency of your seizures showed that they occurred only once or twice a year. The prior decision would be found to be in error, and whether you were still considered to be disabled would be based on whether your current impairment(s) meets or equals the requirements of appendix 1 of this subpart.
(ii) At the time of the prior evaluation, required and material evidence of the severity of your impairment(s) was missing. That evidence becomes available upon review, and substantial evidence demonstrates that had such evidence been present at the time of the prior determination, disability would not have been found.
(iii) Substantial evidence which is new evidence which relates to the prior determination (of allowance or continuance) refutes the conclusions that were based upon the prior evidence (e.g., a tumor thought to be malignant was later shown to have actually been benign). Substantial evidence must show that had the new evidence (which relates to the prior determination) been considered at the time of the prior decision, the claim would not have been allowed or continued. A substitution of current judgment for that used in the prior favorable decision will not be the basis for applying this exception.

# Example:
You were previously granted disability benefits on the basis of diabetes mellitus which the prior adjudicator believed was equivalent to the level of severity contemplated in the Listing of Impairments.
The prior record shows that you had “brittle” diabetes for which you were taking insulin. Your urine was 3 + for sugar, and you alleged occasional hypoglycemic attacks caused by exertion. On review, symptoms, signs and laboratory findings are unchanged. The current adjudicator believes, however, that your impairment does not equal the severity contemplated by the listings. Error
cannot
be found because it would represent a substitution of current judgment for that of the prior adjudicator that your impairment equaled a listing.
(iv) The exception for error will not be applied retroactively under the conditions set out above unless the conditions for reopening the prior decision (see § 404.988) are met.
(4)
You are currently engaging in substantial gainful activity.
If you are currently engaging in substantial gainful activity before we determine whether you are no longer disabled because of your work activity, we will consider whether you are entitled to a trial work period as set out in § 404.1592. We will find that your disability has ended in the month in which you demonstrated your ability to engage in substantial gainful activity (following completion of a trial work period, where it applies). This exception does not apply in determining whether you continue to have a disabling impairment(§ 404.1511) for purposes of deciding your eligibility for a reentitlement period (§ 404.1592a).
(e)
Second group of exceptions to medical improvement.
In addition to the first group of exceptions to medical improvement, the following exceptions may result in a determination that you are no longer disabled. In these situations the decision will be made without a determination that you have medically improved or can engage in gainful activity.
(1)
A prior determination or decision was fraudulently obtained.
If we find that any prior favorable determination or decision was obtained by fraud, we may find that you are not disabled. In addition, we may reopen your claim under the rules in § 404.988. In determining whether a prior favorable determination or decision was fraudulently obtained, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which you may have had at the time.
(2)
You do not cooperate with us.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled and we ask you to give us medical or other evidence or to go for a physical or mental examination by a certain date, we will find that your disability has ended if you fail, without good cause, to do what we ask. Section 404.911 explains the factors we consider and how we will determine generally whether you have good cause for failure to cooperate. In addition, § 404.1518 discusses how we determine whether you have good cause for failing to attend a consultative examination. The month in which your disability ends will be the first month in which you failed to do what we asked.
(3)
We are unable to find you.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled and we are unable to find you to resolve the question, we will determine that your disability has ended. The month your disability ends will be the first month in which the question arose and we could not find you.
(4)
You fail to follow prescribed treatment which would be expected to restore your ability to engage in gainful activity.
If treatment has been prescribed for you which would be expected to restore your ability to work, you must follow that treatment in order to be paid benefits. If you are not following that treatment and you do not have good cause for failing to follow that treatment, we will find that your disability has ended (see § 404.1530(c)). The month your disability ends will be the first month in which you failed to follow the prescribed treatment.
(f)
Evaluation steps.
To assure that disability reviews are carried out in a uniform manner, that decisions of continuing disability can be made in the most expeditious and administratively efficient way, and that any decisions to stop disability benefits are made objectively, neutrally and are fully documented, we will follow specific steps in reviewing the question of whether your disability continues. Our review may stop and benefits may be
continued
at any point if we determine there is sufficient evidence to find that you are
still unable to engage in gainful activity. The steps are:
(1) Are you engaging in substantial gainful activity? If you are (and any applicable trial work period has been completed), we will find disability to have ended.
(2) If you are not, has there been medical improvement as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section? If there has been medical improvement as shown by a decrease in medical severity, see step (3). If there has been no decrease in medical severity, there has been no medical improvement. (see step (4).)
(3) If there has been medical improvement, we must determine (in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section) whether it is related to your ability to work. If medical improvement is
not
related to your ability to do work, see step (4). If medical improvement is related to your ability to do work, see step (5).
(4) If we found at step (2) that there has been no medical improvement or if we found at step (3) that the medical improvement is not related to your ability to work, we consider whether any of the exceptions in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section apply. If none of them apply, your disability will be found to continue. If one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement (see paragraph (d) of this section) applies, we will proceed to step (5). If an exception from the second group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, your disability will be found to have ended. The second group of exceptions to medical improvement may be considered at any point in this process.
(5) If medical improvement is related to your ability to work or if one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, we will determine (considering all your impairments) whether the requirements of appendix 1 of this subpart are met or equaled. If your impairment(s) meets or equals the requirements of appendix 1 of this subpart, your disability will be found to continue. If not, your disability will be found to have ended.
(g)
The month in which we will find you are no longer disabled.
If the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled, we will find that your disability ended in the earliest of the following months—
(1) The month the evidence shows you are no longer disabled under the rules set out in this section, and you were disabled only for a specified period of time in the past;
(2) The month the evidence shows you are no longer disabled under the rules set out in this section, but not earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that the information we have shows that you are not disabled;
(3) The month in which you demonstrated your ability to engage in substantial gainful activity (following completion of a trial work period); however, we may pay you benefits for certain months in and after the reentitlement period which follows the trial work period. (See § 404.1592 for a discussion of the trial work period, § 404.1592a for a discussion of the reentitlement period, and § 404.337 for when your benefits will end.);
(4) The month in which you return to full-time work, with no significant medical restrictions and acknowledge that medical improvement has occurred, as long as we expected your impairment(s) to improve (see § 404.1591);
(5) The first month in which you failed to do what we asked, without good cause when the rule set out in paragraph (e)(2) of this section applies;
(6) The first month in which the question of continuing disability arose and we could not find you, when the rule set out in paragraph (e)(3) of this section applies;
(7) The first month in which you failed to follow prescribed treatment without good cause, when the rule set out in paragraph (e)(4) of this section applies; or
(8) The first month you were told by your physician that you could return to work provided there is no substantial conflict between your physician's and your statements regarding your awareness of your capacity for work and the earlier date is supported by medical evidence.
(h)
Before we stop your benefits.
Before we determine you are no longer disabled, we will give you a chance to explain why we should not do so. Sections 404.1595 and 404.1597 describe your rights (including appeal rights) and the procedures we will follow.
[50 FR 50126, Dec. 6, 1985; 51 FR 7063, Feb. 28, 1986; 51 FR 16015, Apr. 30, 1986, as amended at 57 FR 30121, July 8, 1992; 59 FR 1635, Jan. 12, 1994; 82 FR 5871, Jan. 18, 2017]

# Blindness
§ 404.1581
Meaning of blindness as defined in the law.
We will consider you blind under the law for a period of disability and for payment of disability insurance benefits if we determine that you are statutorily blind. Statutory blindness is defined in the law as central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with the use of correcting lens. An eye which has a limitation in the field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees is considered to have a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less. Your blindness must meet the duration requirement in § 404.1509. We do not consider certain felony-related and prison-related impairments, as explained in § 404.1506.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 5715, Feb. 8, 1983]
§ 404.1582
A period of disability based on blindness.
If we find that you are blind and you meet the insured status requirement, we may establish a period of disability for you regardless of whether you can do substantial gainful activity. A period of disability protects your earnings record under Social Security so that the time you are disabled will not count against you in determining whether you will have worked long enough to qualify for benefits and the amount of your benefits. However, you will not necessarily be entitled to receive disability insurance cash benefits even though you are blind. If you are a blind person under age 55, you must be unable to do any substantial gainful activity in order to be paid disability insurance cash benefits.
§ 404.1583
How we determine disability for blind persons who are age 55 or older.
We will find that you are eligible for disability insurance benefits even though you are still engaging in substantial gainful activity, if—
(a) You are blind;
(b) You are age 55 or older; and
(c) You are unable to use the skills or abilities like the ones you used in any substantial gainful activity which you did regularly and for a substantial period of time. (However, you will not be paid any cash benefits for any month in which you are doing substantial gainful activity.)
§ 404.1584
Evaluation of work activity of blind people.
(a)
General.
If you are blind (as explained in § 404.1581), we will consider the earnings from the work you are doing to determine whether or not you should be paid cash benefits.
(b)
Under Age 55.
If you are under age 55, we will evaluate the work you are doing using the guides in paragraph (d) of this section to determine whether or not your work shows that you are doing substantial gainful activity. If you are not doing substantial gainful activity, we will pay you cash benefits. If you are doing substantial gainful activity, we will not pay you cash benefits. However, you will be given a period of disability as described in subpart D of this part.
(c)
Age 55 or older.
If you are age 55 or older, we will evaluate your work using the guides in paragraph (d) of this section to determine whether or not your work shows that you are doing substantial gainful activity. If you have not shown this ability, we will pay you cash benefits. If you have shown an ability to do substantial gainful activity, we will evaluate your work activity to find out how your work compares with the work you did before. If the skills and abilities of your new work are about the same as those you used in the work you did before, we will not pay you cash benefits. However, if your new work requires skills and abilities which are less than or different than those you used in the work you did before, we will pay you cash benefits, but not for any month in
which you actually perform substantial gainful activity.
(d)
Evaluation of earnings
—(1)
Earnings that will ordinarily show that you have engaged in substantial gainful activity.
We will ordinarily consider that your earnings from your work activities show that you have engaged in substantial gainful activity if your monthly earnings average more than the amount(s) shown in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section. We will apply §§ 404.1574(a)(2), 404.1575(c), and 404.1576 in determining the amount of your average earnings.
(2)
Substantial gainful activity guidelines for taxable years before 1978.
For work activity performed in taxable years before 1978, the average earnings per month that we ordinarily consider enough to show that you have done substantial gainful activity are the same for blind people as for others. See § 404.1574(b)(2) for the earnings guidelines for other than blind individuals.
(3)
Substantial gainful activity guidelines for taxable years beginning 1978.
For taxable years beginning 1978, if you are blind, the law provides different earnings guidelines for determining if your earnings from your work activities are substantial gainful activity. Ordinarily, we consider your work to be substantial gainful activity, if your average monthly earnings are more than those shown in Table I. For years after 1977 and before 1996, increases in the substantial gainful activity guideline were linked to increases in the monthly exempt amount under the retirement earnings test for individuals aged 65 to 69. Beginning with 1996, increases in the substantial gainful activity amount have depended only on increases in the national average wage index.
Table I
Over
In year(s)
$334
1978
$375
1979
$417
1980
$459
1981
$500
1982
$550
1983
$580
1984
$610
1985
$650
1986
$680
1987
$700
1988
$740
1989
$780
1990
$810
1991
$850
1992
$880
1993
$930
1994
$940
1995
$960
1996
$1,000
1997
$1,050
1998
$1,110
1999
$1,170
2000
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 21939, May 16, 1983; 65 FR 42786, July 11, 2000]
§ 404.1585
Trial work period for persons age 55 or older who are blind.
If you become eligible for disability benefits even though you were doing substantial gainful activity because you are blind and age 55 or older, you are entitled to a trial work period if—
(a) You later return to substantial gainful activity that requires skills or abilities comparable to those required in the work you regularly did before you became blind or became 55 years old, whichever is later; or
(b) Your last previous work ended because of an impairment and the current work requires a significant vocational adjustment.
§ 404.1586
Why and when we will stop your cash benefits.
(a)
When you are not entitled to benefits.
If you become entitled to disability cash benefits as a statutorily blind person, we will find that you are no longer entitled to benefits beginning with the earliest of—
(1) The month your vision, based on current medical evidence, does not meet the definition of blindness and your disability does not continue under the rules in § 404.1594 and you were disabled only for a specified period of time in the past;
(2) The month your vision, based on current medical evidence, does not meet the definition of blindness and your disability does not continue under the rules in § 404.1594, but not earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that the information we have shows that you are not disabled;
(3) If you are under age 55, the month in which you demonstrated your ability to engage in substantial gainful activity (following completion of a trial work period); however, we may pay you benefits for certain months in and after the reentitlement period which follows the trial work period. (See § 404.1592a for a discussion of the reentitlement period, and § 404.316 on when your benefits will end.); or
(4) If you are age 55 or older, the month (following completion of a trial work period) when your work activity shows you are able to use, in substantial gainful activity, skills and abilities comparable to those of some gainful activity which you did with some regularity and over a substantial period of time. The skills and abilities are compared to the activity you did prior to age 55 or prior to becoming blind, whichever is later.
(b)
If we find that you are not entitled to disability cash benefits.
If we find that you are not entitled to disability cash benefits on the basis of your work activity but your visual impairment is sufficiently severe to meet the definition of blindness, the period of disability that we established for you will continue.
(c)
If you do not follow prescribed treatment.
If treatment has been prescribed for you that can restore your ability to work, you must follow that treatment in order to be paid benefits. If you are not following that treatment and you do not have a good reason for failing to follow that treatment (see § 404.1530(c)), we will find that your disability has ended. The month in which your disability will be found to have ended will be the first month in which you failed to follow the prescribed treatment.
(d)
If you do not cooperate with us.
If we ask you to give us medical or other evidence or to go for a medical examination by a certain date, we will find that your disability has ended if you fail, without good cause, to do what we ask. Section 404.911 explains the factors we consider and how we will determine generally whether you have good cause for failure to cooperate. In addition, § 404.1518 discusses how we determine whether you have good cause for failing to attend a consultative examination. The month in which your disability will be found to have ended will be the month in which you failed to do what we asked.
(e)
If we are unable to find you.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled by blindness and we are unable to find you to resolve the question, we will find that your disability, has ended. The month it ends will be the first month in which the question arose and we could not find you.
(f)
Before we stop your benefits.
Before we stop your benefits or period of disability, we will give you a chance to give us your reasons why we should not stop your benefits or your period of disability. Section 404.1595 describes your rights and the procedures we will follow.
(g)
If you are in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services.
(1) Your benefits, and those of your dependents, may be continued after your impairment is no longer disabling if—
(i) You are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services, as described in § 404.327(a) and (b);
(ii) You began participating in the program before the date your disability ended; and
(iii) We have determined under § 404.328 that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
(2) We generally will stop your benefits with the earliest of these months—
(i) The month in which you complete the program; or
(ii) The month in which you stop participating in the program for any reason (see § 404.327(b) for what we mean by “participating” in the program); or
(iii) The month in which we determine under § 404.328 that your continuing participation in the program will no longer increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
Exception to paragraph (d):
In no case will we stop your benefits with a month earlier than the second month
after the month your disability ends, provided that you meet all other requirements for entitlement to and payment of benefits through such month.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 31543, July 21, 1982; 47 FR 52693, Nov. 23, 1982; 49 FR 22272, May 29, 1984; 50 FR 50130, Dec. 6, 1985; 51 FR 17617, May 14, 1986; 59 FR 1635, Jan. 12, 1994; 70 FR 36507, June 24, 2005]
§ 404.1587
Circumstances under which we may suspend and terminate your benefits before we make a determination.
(a)
We will suspend your benefits if you are not disabled.
We will suspend your benefits if all of the information we have clearly shows that you are not disabled and we will be unable to complete a determination soon enough to prevent us from paying you more monthly benefits than you are entitled to. This may occur when you are blind as defined in the law and age 55 or older and you have returned to work similar to work you previously performed.
(b)
We will suspend your benefits if you fail to comply with our request for necessary information.
We will suspend your benefits effective with the month in which it is determined in accordance with § 404.1596(b)(2)(i) that your disability benefits should stop due to your failure, without good cause (see § 404.911), to comply with our request for necessary information. When we have received the information, we will reinstate your benefits for any previous month for which they are otherwise payable, and continue with the CDR process.
(c)
We will terminate your benefits.
We will terminate your benefits following 12 consecutive months of benefit suspension because you did not comply with our request for information in accordance with § 404.1596(b)(2)(i). We will count the 12-month suspension period from the start of the first month that you stopped receiving benefits (see paragraph (b) of this section). This termination is effective with the start of the 13th month after the suspension began because you failed to cooperate.
[71 FR 60822, Oct. 17, 2006]

# Continuing or Stopping Disability
§ 404.1588
Your responsibility to tell us of events that may change your disability status.
(a)
Your responsibility to report changes to us.
If you are entitled to cash benefits or to a period of disability because you are disabled, you should promptly tell us if—
(1) Your condition improves;
(2) You return to work;
(3) You have a new employer;
(4) You increase the amount of your work; or
(5) Your earnings increase.
(b)
Effect of authorizing us to obtain your information from payroll data providers.
(1) We will reduce your reporting responsibilities as described in paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) of this section if we have your authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider (see § 404.703), and we receive your wage and employment information from your employer(s) through a participating payroll data provider (see § 404.702). You will not be subject to a penalty described in § 404.459 related to any wage and employment information we receive from a payroll data provider.
(2) We will notify you in writing whenever there is a change in your reporting responsibilities relating to the authorization described in § 404.703. You are always required to submit any changes described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(3) When your reporting requirements will change—
(i) If we have your authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider (see § 404.703), and we receive your wage and employment information from your employer through a participating payroll data provider, you will not have to report an increase in the amount of work for that employer or an increase in earnings from that employer.
(ii) If we have your authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider (see § 404.703), but we do not receive your wage and employment information from your employer through a participating payroll data provider, we will
not reduce your reporting responsibilities.
(iii) If we have your authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider (see § 404.703) and you have more than one employer:
(A) You do not need to report an increase in the amount of work or an increase in earnings for an employer if we receive your wage and employment information for that employer through a participating payroll data provider; and
(B) You must still report an increase in the amount of work or an increase in earnings for an employer if we do not receive your wage and employment information for that employer through a participating payroll data provider.
(4) You may revoke your authorization at any time, but you must do so in writing. We will apply the revocation to all pending or approved disability claims under this title, as well as all pending or approved claims under title XVI, from the time we process your revocation. If you revoke your authorization, all your reporting responsibilities will resume, and you will again be subject to all related penalties. We will notify you in writing of these changes.
(c)
Our responsibility when you report your work to us.
When you or your representative report changes in your work activity to us under paragraphs (a)(2) through (5) of this section, we will issue a receipt to you or your representative.
[89 FR 107259, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 404.1589
We may conduct a review to find out whether you continue to be disabled.
After we find that you are disabled, we must evaluate your impairment(s) from time to time to determine if you are still eligible for disability cash benefits. We call this evaluation a continuing disability review. We may begin a continuing disability review for any number of reasons including your failure to follow the provisions of the Social Security Act or these regulations. When we begin such a review, we will notify you that we are reviewing your eligibility for disability benefits, why we are reviewing your eligibility, that in medical reviews the medical improvement review standard will apply, that our review could result in the termination of your benefits, and that you have the right to submit medical and other evidence for our consideration during the continuing disability review. In doing a medical review, we will develop a complete medical history of at least the preceding 12 months in any case in which a determination is made that you are no longer under a disability. If this review shows that we should stop payment of your benefits, we will notify you in writing and give you an opportunity to appeal. In § 404.1590 we describe those events that may prompt us to review whether you continue to be disabled.
[51 FR 16825, May 7, 1986]
§ 404.1590
When and how often we will conduct a continuing disability review.
(a)
General.
We conduct continuing disability reviews to determine whether or not you continue to meet the disability requirements of the law. Payment of cash benefits or a period of disability ends if the medical or other evidence shows that you are not disabled as determined under the standards set out in section 223(f) of the Social Security Act. In paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, we explain when and how often we conduct continuing disability reviews for most individuals. In paragraph (h) of this section, we explain special rules for some individuals who are participating in the Ticket to Work program. In paragraph (i) of this section, we explain special rules for some individuals who work.
(b)
When we will conduct a continuing disability review.
Except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, we will start a continuing disability review if—
(1) You have been scheduled for a medical improvement expected diary review;
(2) You have been scheduled for a periodic review (medical improvement possible or medical improvement not expected) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) We need a current medical or other report to see if your disability continues. (This could happen when, for example, an advance in medical
technology, such as improved treatment for Alzheimer's disease or a change in vocational therapy or technology raises a disability issue.);
(4) You return to work and successfully complete a period of trial work;
(5) Substantial earnings are reported to your wage record;
(6) You tell us that—
(i) You have recovered from your disability; or
(ii) You have returned to work;
(7) Your State Vocational Rehabilitation Agency tells us that—
(i) The services have been completed; or
(ii) You are now working; or
(iii) You are able to work;
(8) Someone in a position to know of your physical or mental condition tells us any of the following, and it appears that the report could be substantially correct:
(i) You are not disabled; or
(ii) You are not following prescribed treatment; or
(iii) You have returned to work; or
(iv) You are failing to follow the provisions of the Social Security Act or these regulations;
(9) Evidence we receive raises a question as to whether your disability continues; or
(10) You have been scheduled for a vocational reexamination diary review.
(c)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Medical improvement expected diary
—refers to a case which is scheduled for review at a later date because the individual's impairment(s) is expected to improve. Generally, the diary period is set for not less than 6 months or for not more than 18 months. Examples of cases likely to be scheduled for medical improvement expected diary are fractures and cases in which corrective surgery is planned and recovery can be anticipated.
Permanent impairment
—medical improvement not expected—refers to a case in which any medical improvement in the person's impairment(s) is not expected. This means an extremely severe condition determined on the basis of our experience in administering the disability programs to be at least static, but more likely to be progressively disabling either by itself or by reason of impairment complications, and unlikely to improve so as to permit the individual to engage in substantial gainful activity. The interaction of the individual's age, impairment consequences and lack of recent attachment to the labor market may also be considered in determining whether an impairment is permanent. Improvement which is considered temporary under § 404.1579(c)(4) or § 404.1594(c)(3)(iv), as appropriate, will not be considered in deciding if an impairment is permanent. Examples of permanent impairments taken from the list contained in our other written guidelines which are available for public review are as follows and are not intended to be all inclusive:
(1) Parkinsonian Syndrome which has reached the level of severity necessary to meet the Listing in appendix 1.
(2) Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis which has reached the level of severity necessary to meet the Listing in appendix 1.
(3) Diffuse pulmonary fibrosis in an individual age 55 or over which has reached the level of severity necessary to meet the Listing in appendix 1.
(4) Amputation of leg at hip.
Nonpermanent impairment
—refers to a case in which any medical improvement in the person's impairment(s) is possible. This means an impairment for which improvement cannot be predicted based on current experience and the facts of the particular case but which is not at the level of severity of an impairment that is considered permanent. Examples of nonpermanent impairments are: regional enteritis, hyperthyroidism, and chronic ulcerative colitis.
Vocational reexamination diary
—refers to a case which is scheduled for review at a later date because the individual is undergoing vocational therapy, training or an educational program which may improve his or her ability to work so that the disability requirement of the law is no longer met. Generally, the diary period will be set for the length of the training, therapy, or program of education.
(d)
Frequency of review.
If your impairment is expected to improve, generally we will review your continuing
eligibility for disability benefits at intervals from 6 months to 18 months following our most recent decision. Our notice to you about the review of your case will tell you more precisely when the review will be conducted. If your disability is not considered permanent but is such that any medical improvement in your impairment(s) cannot be accurately predicted, we will review your continuing eligibility for disability benefits at least once every 3 years. If your disability is considered permanent, we will review your continuing eligibility for benefits no less frequently than once every 7 years but no more frequently than once every 5 years. Regardless of your classification, we will conduct an immediate continuing disability review if a question of continuing disability is raised pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Change in classification of impairment.
If the evidence developed during a continuing disability review demonstrates that your impairment has improved, is expected to improve, or has worsened since the last review, we may reclassify your impairment to reflect this change in severity. A change in the classification of your impairment will change the frequency with which we will review your case. We may also reclassify certain impairments because of improved tests, treatment, and other technical advances concerning those impairments.
(f)
Review after administrative appeal.
If you were found eligible to receive or to continue to receive disability benefits on the basis of a decision by an administrative law judge, the Appeals Council or a Federal court, we will not conduct a continuing disability review earlier than 3 years after that decision unless your case should be scheduled for a medical improvement expected or vocational reexamination diary review or a question of continuing disability is raised pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(g)
Waiver of timeframes.
All cases involving a nonpermanent impairment will be reviewed by us at least once every 3 years unless we, after consultation with the State agency, determine that the requirement should be waived to ensure that only the appropriate number of cases are reviewed. The appropriate number of cases to be reviewed is to be based on such considerations as the backlog of pending reviews, the projected number of new applications, and projected staffing levels. Such waiver shall be given only after good faith effort on the part of the State to meet staffing requirements and to process the reviews on a timely basis. Availability of independent medical resources may also be a factor. A
waiver
in this context refers to our administrative discretion to determine the appropriate number of cases to be reviewed on a State by State basis. Therefore, your continuing disability review may be delayed longer than 3 years following our original decision or other review under certain circumstances. Such a delay would be based on our need to ensure that backlogs, reviews required to be performed by the Social Security Disability Benefits Reform Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-460), and new disability claims workloads are accomplished within available medical and other resources in the State agency and that such reviews are done carefully and accurately.
(h)
If you are participating in the Ticket to Work program.
If you are participating in the Ticket to Work program, we will not start a continuing disability review during the period in which you are using a ticket. However, this provision does not apply to reviews we conduct using the rules in §§ 404.1571-404.1576 to determine whether the work you have done shows that you are able to do substantial gainful activity and are, therefore, no longer disabled. See subpart C of part 411 of this chapter.
(i)
If you are working and have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months
—(1)
General.
Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5), (b)(6)(ii), (b)(7)(ii), and (b)(8)(iii) of this section, we will not start a continuing disability review based solely on your work activity if—
(i) You are currently entitled to disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability; and
(ii) You have received such benefits for at least 24 months (see paragraph (i)(2) of this section).
(2)
The 24-month requirement.
(i) The months for which you have actually received disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability that you were due, or for which you have constructively received such benefits, will count for the 24-month requirement under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section, regardless of whether the months were consecutive. We will consider you to have constructively received a benefit for a month for purposes of the 24-month requirement if you were otherwise due a social security disability benefit for that month and your monthly benefit was withheld to recover an overpayment. Any month for which you were entitled to benefits but for which you did not actually or constructively receive a benefit payment will not be counted for the 24-month requirement. Months for which your social security disability benefits are continued under § 404.1597a pending reconsideration and/or a hearing before an administrative law judge on a medical cessation determination will not be counted for the 24-month requirement. If you also receive supplemental security income payments based on disability or blindness under title XVI of the Social Security Act, months for which you received only supplemental security income payments will not be counted for the 24-month requirement.
(ii) In determining whether paragraph (i)(1) of this section applies, we consider whether you have received disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability for at least 24 months as of the date on which we start a continuing disability review. For purposes of this provision, the date on which we start a continuing disability review is the date on the notice we send you that tells you that we are beginning to review your disability case.
(3)
When we may start a continuing disability review even if you have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months.
Even if you meet the requirements of paragraph (i)(1) of this section, we may still start a continuing disability review for a reason(s) other than your work activity. We may start a continuing disability review if we have scheduled you for a periodic review of your continuing disability, we need a current medical or other report to see if your disability continues, we receive evidence which raises a question as to whether your disability continues, or you fail to follow the provisions of the Social Security Act or these regulations. For example, we will start a continuing disability review when you have been scheduled for a medical improvement expected diary review, and we may start a continuing disability review if you failed to report your work to us.
(4)
Reviews to determine whether the work you have done shows that you are able to do substantial gainful activity.
Paragraph (i)(1) of this section does not apply to reviews we conduct using the rules in §§ 404.1571-404.1576 to determine whether the work you have done shows that you are able to do substantial gainful activity and are, therefore, no longer disabled.
(5)
Erroneous start of the continuing disability review.
If we start a continuing disability review based solely on your work activity that results in a medical cessation determination, we will vacate the medical cessation determination if—
(i) You provide us evidence that establishes that you met the requirements of paragraph (i)(1) of this section as of the date of the start of your continuing disability review and that the start of the review was erroneous; and
(ii) We receive the evidence within 12 months of the date of the notice of the initial determination of medical cessation.
[51 FR 16825, May 7, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 66856, Nov. 17, 2006]
§ 404.1591
If your medical recovery was expected and you returned to work.
If your impairment was expected to improve and you returned to full-time work with no significant medical limitations and acknowledge that medical improvement has occurred, we may
find that your disability ended in the month you returned to work. Unless there is evidence showing that your disability has not ended, we will use the medical and other evidence already in your file and the fact that you returned to full-time work without significant limitations to determine that you are no longer disabled. (If your impairment is not expected to improve, we will not ordinarily review your claim until the end of the trial work period, as described in § 404.1592.)

# Example:
Evidence obtained during the processing of your claim showed that you had an impairment that was expected to improve about 18 months after your disability began. We, therefore, told you that your claim would be reviewed again at that time. However, before the time arrived for your scheduled medical re-examination, you told us that you had returned to work and your impairment had improved. We investigated immediately and found that, in the 16th month after your disability began, you returned to full-time work without any significant medical restrictions. Therefore, we would find that your disability ended in the first month you returned to full-time work.
[50 FR 50130, Dec. 6, 1985]
§ 404.1592
The trial work period.
(a)
Definition of the trial work period.
The trial work period is a period during which you may test your ability to work and still be considered disabled. It begins and ends as described in paragraph (e) of this section. During this period, you may perform
services
(see paragraph (b) of this section) in as many as 9 months, but these months do not have to be consecutive. We will not consider those services as showing that your disability has ended until you have performed services in at least 9 months. However, after the trial work period has ended we will consider the work you did during the trial work period in determining whether your disability ended at any time after the trial work period.
(b)
What we mean by services.
When used in this section,
services
means any activity (whether legal or illegal), even though it is not substantial gainful activity, which is done in employment or self-employment for pay or profit, or is the kind normally done for pay or profit. We generally do not consider work done without remuneration to be
services
if it is done merely as therapy or training or if it is work usually done in a daily routine around the house or in self-care. We will not consider work you have done as a volunteer in the federal programs described in section 404.1574(d) in determining whether you have performed services in the trial work period.
(1)
If you are an employee.
We will consider your work as an employee to be
services
if:
(i)
Before January 1, 2002,
your earnings in a month were more than the amount(s) indicated in Table 1 for the year(s) in which you worked.
(ii)
Beginning January 1, 2002,
your earnings in a month are more than an amount determined for each calendar year to be the larger of:
(A) Such amount for the previous year, or
(B) An amount adjusted for national wage growth, calculated by multiplying $530 by the ratio of the national average wage index for the year 2 calendar years before the year for which the amount is being calculated to the national average wage index for 1999. We will then round the resulting amount to the next higher multiple of $10 where such amount is a multiple of $5 but not of $10 and to the nearest multiple of $10 in any other case.
(2)
If you are self-employed.
We will consider your activities as a self-employed person to be
services
if:
(i)
Before January 1, 2002,
your net earnings in a month were more than the amount(s) indicated in Table 2 of this section for the year(s) in which you worked, or the hours you worked in the business in a month are more than the number of hours per month indicated in Table 2 for the years in which you worked.
(ii)
Beginning January 1, 2002,
you work more than 80 hours a month in the business, or your net earnings in a month are more than an amount determined for each calendar year to be the larger of:
(A) Such amount for the previous year, or
(B) An amount adjusted for national wage growth, calculated by multiplying $530 by the ratio of the national average wage index for the year 2 calendar years before the year for which
the amount is being calculated to the national average wage index for 1999. We will then round the resulting amount to the next higher multiple of $10 where such amount is a multiple of $5 but not of $10 and to the nearest multiple of $10 in any other case.
Table 1—For Employees
For months
You earn more than
In calendar years before 1979
$50
In calendar years 1979-1989
75
In calendar years 1990-2000
200
In calendar year 2001
530
Table 2—For the Self-Employed
For months
Your net earnings are more than
Or you work in the business more than
In calendar years before 1979
$50
15 hours.
In calendar years 1979-1989
75
15 hours.
In calendar years 1990-2000
200
40 hours.
In calendar year 2001
530
80 hours.
(c)
Limitations on the number of trial work periods.
You may have only one trial work period during a period of entitlement to cash benefits.
(d)
Who is and is not entitled to a trial work period.
(1) You are generally entitled to a trial work period if you are entitled to disability insurance benefits, child's benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's or surviving divorced spouse's benefits based on disability.
(2) You are not entitled to a trial work period—
(i) If you are entitled to a period of disability but not to disability insurance benefits, and you are not entitled to any other type of disability benefit under title II of the Social Security Act (
i.e.
, child's benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's benefits or surviving divorced spouse's benefits based on disability);
(ii) If you perform work demonstrating the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity during any required waiting period for benefits;
(iii) If you perform work demonstrating the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity within 12 months of the onset of the impairment(s) that prevented you from performing substantial gainful activity and before the date of any notice of determination or decision finding that you are disabled; or
(iv) For any month prior to the month of your application for disability benefits (see paragraph (e) of this section).
(e)
When the trial work period begins and ends.
The trial work period begins with the month in which you become entitled to disability insurance benefits, to child's benefits based on disability or to widow's, widower's, or surviving divorced spouse's benefits based on disability. It cannot begin before the month in which you file your application for benefits, and for widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses, it cannot begin before December 1, 1980. It ends with the close of whichever of the following calendar months is the earliest:
(1) The 9th month (whether or not the months have been consecutive) in which you have performed services if that 9th month is prior to January 1992;
(2) The 9th month (whether or not the months have been consecutive and whether or not the previous 8 months of services were prior to January 1992) in which you have performed services within a period of 60 consecutive months if that 9th month is after December 1991; or
(3) The month in which new evidence, other than evidence relating to any work you did during the trial work period, shows that you are not disabled, even though you have not worked a full 9 months. We may find that your disability has ended at any time during the trial work period if the medical or other evidence shows that you are no longer disabled. See § 404.1594 for information on how we decide whether your disability continues or ends.
(f)
Nonpayment of benefits for trial work period service months.
See § 404.471 for an explanation of when benefits for trial work period service months are not payable if you are convicted by a Federal court of fraudulently concealing your work activity.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 22273, May 29, 1984; 50 FR 50130, Dec. 6, 1985; 54 FR 53605, Dec. 29, 1989; 65 FR 42787, July 11, 2000; 65 FR 82910, Dec. 29, 2000; 71 FR 66866, Nov. 17, 2006]
§ 404.1592a
The reentitlement period.
(a)
General.
The reentitlement period is an additional period after 9 months of trial work during which you may continue to test your ability to work if you have a
disabling impairment,
as defined in § 404.1511. If you work during the reentitlement period, we may decide that your disability has ceased because your work is substantial gainful activity and stop your benefits. However, if, after the month for which we found that your disability ceased because you performed substantial gainful activity, you stop engaging in substantial gainful activity, we will start paying you benefits again; you will not have to file a new application. The following rules apply if you complete a trial work period and continue to have a disabling impairment:
(1) The first time you work after the end of your trial work period
and
engage in substantial gainful activity, we will find that your disability ceased. When we decide whether this work is substantial gainful activity, we will apply all of the relevant provisions of §§ 404.1571-404.1576 including, but not limited to, the provisions for averaging earnings, unsuccessful work attempts, and deducting impairment-related work expenses, as well as the special rules for evaluating the work you do after you have received disability benefits for at least 24 months. We will find that your disability ceased in the first month after the end of your trial work period in which you do substantial gainful activity, applying all the relevant provisions in §§ 404.1571-404.1576.
(2)(i) If we determine under paragraph (a)(1) of this section that your disability ceased during the reentitlement period because you perform substantial gainful activity, you will be paid benefits for the first month after the trial work period in which you do substantial gainful activity (
i.e.
, the month your disability ceased) and the two succeeding months, whether or not you do substantial gainful activity in those succeeding months. After those three months, we will stop your benefits for any month in which you do substantial gainful activity. (See §§ 404.316, 404.337, 404.352 and 404.401a.) If your benefits are stopped because you do substantial gainful activity, they may be started again without a new application and a new determination of disability if you stop doing substantial gainful activity in a month during the reentitlement period. In determining whether you do substantial gainful activity in a month for purposes of stopping or starting benefits during the reentitlement period, we will consider only your work in, or earnings for, that month. Once we have determined that your disability has ceased during the reentitlement period because of the performance of substantial gainful activity as explained in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, we will not apply the provisions of §§ 404.1574(c) and 404.1575(d) regarding unsuccessful work attempts, the provisions of § 404.1574a regarding averaging of earnings, or the special rules in §§ 404.1574(b)(3)(iii) and 404.1575(e) for evaluating the work you do after you have received disability benefits for at least 24 months, to determine whether benefits should be paid for any particular month in the reentitlement period that occurs after the month your disability ceased.
(ii) If anyone else is receiving monthly benefits based on your earnings record, that individual will not be paid benefits for any month for which you cannot be paid benefits during the reentitlement period.
(3) The way we will consider your work activity after your reentitlement period ends (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section) will depend on whether you worked during the reentitlement period and if you did substantial gainful activity.
(i) If you worked during the reentitlement period and we decided that your disability ceased during the reentitlement period because of your
work under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, we will find that your entitlement to disability benefits terminates in the first month in which you engaged in substantial gainful activity after the end of the reentitlement period (see § 404.325). (See § 404.321 for when entitlement to a period of disability ends.) When we make this determination, we will consider only your work in, or earnings for, that month; we will not apply the provisions of §§ 404.1574(c) and 404.1575(d) regarding unsuccessful work attempts, the provisions of § 404.1574a regarding averaging of earnings, or the special rules in §§ 404.1574(b)(3)(iii) and 404.1575(e) for evaluating the work you do after you have received disability benefits for at least 24 months.
(ii) If we did not find that your disability ceased because of work activity during the reentitlement period, we will apply all of the relevant provisions of §§ 404.1571-404.1576 including, but not limited to, the provisions for averaging earnings, unsuccessful work attempts, and deducting impairment-related work expenses, as well as the special rules for evaluating the work you do after you have received disability benefits for at least 24 months, to determine whether your disability ceased because you performed substantial gainful activity after the reentitlement period. If we find that your disability ceased because you performed substantial gainful activity in a month after your reentitlement period ended, you will be paid benefits for the month in which your disability ceased and the two succeeding months. After those three months, your entitlement to a period of disability or to disability benefits terminates (see §§ 404.321 and 404.325).
(b)
When the reentitlement period begins and ends.
The reentitlement period begins with the first month following completion of 9 months of trial work but cannot begin earlier than December 1, 1980. It ends with whichever is earlier—
(1) The month before the first month in which your impairment no longer exists or is not medically disabling; or
(2)(i) The last day of the 15th month following the end of your trial work period if you were not entitled to benefits after December 1987; or
(ii) The last day of the 36th month following the end of your trial work period if you were entitled to benefits after December 1987 or if the 15-month period described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section had not ended as of January 1988. (See §§ 404.316, 404.337, and 404.352 for when your benefits end.)
(c)
When you are not entitled to a reentitlement period.
You are not entitled to a reentitlement period if:
(1) You are entitled to a period of disability, but not to disability insurance cash benefits;
(2) You are not entitled to a trial work period;
(3) Your entitlement to disability insurance benefits ended before you completed 9 months of trial work in that period of disability.
[49 FR 22273, May 29, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 64883, Dec. 10, 1993; 65 FR 42787, July 11, 2000; 71 FR 66856, Nov. 17, 2006]
§ 404.1592b
What is expedited reinstatement?
The expedited reinstatement provision provides you another option for regaining entitlement to benefits when we previously terminated your entitlement to disability benefits due to your work activity. The expedited reinstatement provision provides you the option of requesting that your prior entitlement to disability benefits be reinstated, rather than filing a new application for a new period of entitlement. Since January 1, 2001, you can request to be reinstated to benefits if you stop doing substantial gainful activity within 60 months of your prior termination. You must not be able to do substantial gainful activity because of your medical condition. Your current impairment must be the same as or related to your prior impairment and you must be disabled. To determine if you are disabled, we will use our medical improvement review standard that we use in our continuing disability review process. The advantage of using the medical improvement review standard is that we will generally find that you are disabled unless your impairment has improved so that you are able to work or unless an exception under the medical improvement review standard
process applies. We explain the rules for expedited reinstatement in §§ 404.1592c through 404.1592f.
[70 FR 57142, Sept. 30, 2005]
§ 404.1592c
Who is entitled to expedited reinstatement?
(a) You can have your entitlement to benefits reinstated under expedited reinstatement if—
(1) You were previously entitled to a disability benefit on your own record of earnings as indicated in § 404.315, or as a disabled widow or widower as indicated in § 404.335, or as a disabled child as indicated in § 404.350, or to Medicare entitlement based on disability and Medicare qualified government employment as indicated in 42 CFR 406.15;
(2) Your disability entitlement referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section was terminated because you did substantial gainful activity;
(3) You file your request for reinstatement timely under § 404.1592d; and
(4) In the month you file your request for reinstatement—
(i) You are not able or become unable to do substantial gainful activity because of your medical condition as determined under paragraph (c) of this section;
(ii) Your current impairment is the same as or related to the impairment that we used as the basis for your previous entitlement referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(iii) You are disabled, as determined under the medical improvement review standard in §§ 404.1594(a) through (e).
(b) You are entitled to reinstatement on the record of an insured person who is or has been reinstated if—
(1) You were previously entitled to one of the following benefits on the record of the insured person—
(i) A spouse or divorced spouse benefit under §§ 404.330 and 404.331;
(ii) A child's benefit under § 404.350; or
(iii) A parent's benefit under § 404.370;
(2) You were entitled to benefits on the record when we terminated the insured person's entitlement;
(3) You meet the requirements for entitlement to the benefit described in the applicable paragraph (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section; and
(4) You request to be reinstated.
(c) We will determine that you are not able to do substantial gainful activity because of your medical condition, under paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, when:
(1) You certify under § 404.1592d(d)(2) that you are unable to do substantial gainful activity because of your medical condition;
(2) You are not able or become unable to do substantial gainful activity in the month you file your request for reinstatement; and
(3) We determine that you are disabled under paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.
[70 FR 57142, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 71369, Oct. 17, 2016]
§ 404.1592d
How do I request reinstatement?
(a) You must make your request for reinstatement in writing.
(b) You must have filed your request on or after January 1, 2001.
(c) You must provide the information we request so that we can determine whether you meet the requirements for reinstatement as indicated in § 404.1592c.
(d) If you request reinstatement under § 404.1592c(a)—
(1) We must receive your request within the consecutive 60-month period that begins with the month in which your entitlement terminated due to doing substantial gainful activity. If we receive your request after the 60-month period we can grant you an extension if we determine you had good cause under the standards explained in § 404.911 for not filing the request timely; and
(2) You must certify that you are disabled, that your current impairment(s) is the same as or related to the impairment(s) that we used as the basis for the benefit you are requesting to be reinstated, and that you are unable to do substantial gainful activity because of your medical condition.
[70 FR 57142, Sept. 30, 2005]
§ 404.1592e
How do we determine provisional benefits?
(a) You may receive up to 6 consecutive months of provisional cash benefits and Medicare during the provisional benefit period, while we determine whether we can reinstate your disability benefit entitlement under § 404.1592c—
(1) We will pay you provisional benefits, and reinstate your Medicare if you are not already entitled to Medicare, beginning with the month you file your request for reinstatement under § 404.1592c(a) if you do not perform substantial gainful activity in that month. We will pay you provisional benefits, and reinstate your Medicare if you are not already entitled to Medicare, beginning with the month after you file your request for reinstatement under § 404.1592c(a) if you perform substantial gainful activity in the month in which you file your request for reinstatement.
(2) We will pay you a monthly provisional benefit amount equal to the last monthly benefit payable to you during your prior entitlement, increased by any cost of living increases that would have been applicable to the prior benefit amount under § 404.270. The last monthly benefit payable is the amount of the monthly insurance benefit we determined that was actually paid to you for the month before the month in which your entitlement was terminated, after we applied the reduction, deduction and nonpayment provisions in § 404.401 through § 404.480.
(3) If you are entitled to another monthly benefit payable under the provisions of title II of the Act for the same month you can be paid a provisional benefit, we will pay you an amount equal to the higher of the benefits payable.
(4) If you request reinstatement for more than one benefit entitlement, we will pay you an amount equal to the higher of the provisional benefits payable.
(5) If you are eligible for Supplemental Security Income payments, including provisional payments, we will reduce your provisional benefits under § 404.408b if applicable.
(6) We will not reduce your provisional benefit, or the payable benefit to other individuals entitled on an earnings record, under § 404.403, when your provisional benefit causes the total benefits payable on the earnings record to exceed the family maximum.
(b) You cannot receive provisional cash benefits or Medicare a second time under this section when—
(1) You request reinstatement under § 404.1592c(a);
(2) You previously received provisional cash benefits or Medicare under this section based upon a prior request for reinstatement filed under § 404.1592c(a); and
(3) Your requests under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) are for the same previous disability entitlement referred to in § 404.1592c(a)(2).
(4)
Examples:

# Example 1:
Mr. K files a request for reinstatement in April 2004. His disability benefit had previously terminated in January 2003. Since Mr. K meets other factors for possible reinstatement (
i.e.
, his prior entitlement was terminated within the last 60 months because he was engaging in substantial gainful activity), we start paying him provisional benefits beginning April 2004 while we determine whether he is disabled and whether his current impairment(s) is the same as or related to the impairment(s) that we used as the basis for the benefit that was terminated in January 2003. In July 2004 we determine that Mr. K cannot be reinstated because he is not disabled under the medical improvement review standard; therefore we stop his provisional benefits. Mr. K does not request review of that determination. In January 2005 Mr. K again requests reinstatement on the entitlement that terminated in January 2003. Since this request meets all the factors for possible reinstatement, and his request is still within 60 months from January 2003, we will make a new determination on whether he is disabled and whether his current impairment(s) is the same as or related to the impairment(s) that we used as the basis for the benefit that was terminated in January 2003. Since the January 2005 request and the April 2004 request both request reinstatement on the same entitlement that terminated in January 2003, and since we already paid Mr. K provisional benefits based upon the April 2004 request, we will not pay additional provisional benefits on the January 2005 request for reinstatement.

# Example 2:
Assume the same facts as shown in Example 1 of this section, with the addition of these facts. We approve Mr. K's January 2005 request for reinstatement and start his reinstated benefits beginning January 2005. Mr. K subsequently returns to work and
his benefits are again terminated due to engaging in substantial gainful activity in January 2012. Mr. K must again stop work and requests reinstatement in January 2015. Since Mr. K meets other factors for possible reinstatement (
i.e.
, his prior entitlement was terminated within the last 60 months because he was engaging in substantial gainful activity) we start paying him provisional benefits beginning January 2015 while we determine whether he is disabled and whether his current impairment(s) is the same as or related to the impairment(s) that we used as the basis for the benefit that was terminated in January 2012.
(c) We will not pay you a provisional benefit for a month when an applicable nonpayment rule applies. Examples of when we will not pay a benefit include, but are not limited to—
(1) If you are a prisoner under § 404.468;
(2) If you have been removed/deported under § 404.464; or
(3) If you are an alien outside the United States under § 404.460.
(d) We will not pay you a provisional benefit for any month that is after the earliest of the following months—
(1) The month we send you a notice of our determination on your request for reinstatement;
(2) The month you do substantial gainful activity;
(3) The month before the month you attain full retirement age; or
(4) The fifth month following the month you requested expedited reinstatement.
(e) You are not entitled to provisional benefits if—
(1) Prior to starting your provisional benefits, we determine that you do not meet the requirements for reinstatement under §§ 404.1592c(a); or
(2) We determine that your statements on your request for reinstatement, made under § 404.1592d(d)(2), are false.
(f) Determinations we make regarding your provisional benefits under paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section are final and are not subject to administrative and judicial review under subpart J of part 404.
(g) If you were previously overpaid benefits under title II or title XVI of the Act, we will not recover the overpayment from your provisional benefits unless you give us permission. We can recover Medicare premiums you owe from your provisional benefits.
(h) If we determine you are not entitled to reinstated benefits, provisional benefits we have already paid you under this section that were made prior to the termination month under paragraph (d) of this section will not be subject to recovery as an overpayment unless we determine that you knew, or should have known, you did not meet the requirements for reinstatement in § 404.1592c. If we inadvertently pay you provisional benefits when you are not entitled to them because we have already made a determination described in paragraph (e) of this section, they will be subject to recover as an overpayment under subpart F of part 404.
[70 FR 57142, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 71369, Oct. 17, 2016]
§ 404.1592f
How do we determine reinstated benefits?
(a) If you meet the requirements for reinstatement under § 404.1592c(a), we will then consider in which month to reinstate your entitlement. We will reinstate your entitlement with the earliest month, in the 12-month period that ends with the month before you filed your request for reinstatement, that you would have met all of the requirements under § 404.1592c(a) if you had filed your request for reinstatement in that month. Otherwise, you will be entitled to reinstated benefits beginning with the month in which you filed your request for such benefits if you did not perform substantial gainful activity in that month. If you performed substantial gainful activity in the month of filing, but are no longer able to perform substantial gainful activity, we will reinstate your benefits with the month after the month you filed your request for reinstatement. We cannot reinstate your entitlement for any month prior to January 2001.
(b) When your entitlement is reinstated, you are also entitled to Medicare benefits under the provisions of 42 CFR part 406.
(c) We will compute your reinstated benefit amount and determine benefits payable under the applicable paragraphs of §§ 404.201 through 404.480 with certain exceptions—
(1) We will reduce your reinstated benefit due in a month by the amount of the provisional benefit we already paid you for that month. If your provisional benefit paid for a month exceeds the reinstated benefit, we will treat the difference as an overpayment under §§ 404.501 through 404.527.
(2) If you are reinstated on your own earnings record, we will compute your primary insurance amount with the same date of onset we used in your most recent period of disability on your earnings record.
(d) We will not pay you reinstated benefits for any months of substantial gainful activity during your initial reinstatement period. During the initial reinstatement period, the trial work period provisions of § 404.1592 and the reentitlement period provisions of § 404.1592a do not apply. The initial reinstatement period begins with the month your reinstated benefits begin under paragraph (a) of this section and ends when you have had 24 payable months of reinstated benefits. We consider you to have a payable month for the purposes of this paragraph when you do not do substantial gainful activity in that month and when the non-payment provisions in subpart E of part 404 also do not apply. If the amount of the provisional benefit already paid you for a month equals or exceeds the amount of the reinstated benefit payable for that month so that no additional payment is due, we will consider that month a payable month. When we determine if you have done substantial gainful activity in a month during the initial reinstatement period, we will consider only your work in, or earnings for, that month. We will not apply the unsuccessful work attempt provisions of §§ 404.1574(c) and 404.1575(d) or the averaging of earnings provisions in § 404.1574a.
(e) After you complete the 24-month initial reinstatement period as indicated in paragraph (d) of this section, your subsequent work will be evaluated under the trial work provisions in § 404.1592 and then the reentitlement period in § 404.1592a.
(f) Your entitlement to reinstated benefits ends with the month before the earliest of the following months—
(1) The month an applicable terminating event in § 404.301 through 404.389 occurs;
(2) The month in which you reach retirement age;
(3) The third month following the month in which your disability ceases; or
(4) The month in which you die.
(g) Determinations we make under §§ 404.1592f are initial determinations under § 404.902 and subject to review under subpart J of part 404.
(h) If we determine you are not entitled to reinstated benefits we will consider your request filed under § 404.1592c(a) your intent to claim benefits under § 404.630.
[70 FR 57142, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 82 FR 7648, Jan. 21, 2017]
§ 404.1593
Medical evidence in continuing disability review cases.
(a)
General.
If you are entitled to benefits or if a period of disability has been established for you because you are disabled, we will have your case file with the supporting medical evidence previously used to establish or continue your entitlement. Generally, therefore, the medical evidence we will need for a continuing disability review will be that required to make a current determination or decision as to whether you are still disabled, as defined under the medical improvement review standard. See §§ 404.1579 and 404.1594.
(b)
Obtaining evidence from your medical sources.
You must provide us with reports from your physician, psychologist, or others who have treated or evaluated you, as well as any other evidence that will help us determine if you are still disabled. See § 404.1512. You must have a good reason for not giving us this information or we may find that your disability has ended. See § 404.1594(e)(2). If we ask you, you must contact your medical sources to help us get the medical reports. We will make every reasonable effort to help you in getting medical reports when you give us permission to request them from your physician, psychologist, or other medical sources. See § 404.1512(d)(1) concerning what we mean by every reasonable effort. In some instances, such as when a source
is known to be unable to provide certain tests or procedures or is known to be nonproductive or uncooperative, we may order a consultative examination while awaiting receipt of medical source evidence. Before deciding that your disability has ended, we will develop a complete medical history covering at least the 12 months preceding the date you sign a report about your continuing disability status. See § 404.1512(c).
(c)
When we will purchase a consultative examination.
A consultative examination may be purchased when we need additional evidence to determine whether or not your disability continues. As a result, we may ask you, upon our request and reasonable notice, to undergo consultative examinations and tests to help us determine if you are still disabled. See § 404.1517. We will decide whether or not to purchase a consultative examination in accordance with the standards in §§ 404.1519a through 404.1519b.
[56 FR 36962, Aug. 1, 1991]
§ 404.1594
How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends.
(a)
General.
There is a statutory requirement that, if you are entitled to disability benefits, your continued entitlement to such benefits must be reviewed periodically. If you are entitled to disability benefits as a disabled worker or as a person disabled since childhood, or, for monthly benefits payable for months after December 1990, as a disabled widow, widower, or surviving divorced spouse, there are a number of factors we consider in deciding whether your disability continues. We must determine if there has been any medical improvement in your impairment(s) and, if so, whether this medical improvement is related to your ability to work. If your impairment(s) has not medically improved we must consider whether one or more of the exceptions to medical improvement applies. If medical improvement related to your ability to work has not occurred and no exception applies, your benefits will continue. Even where medical improvement related to your ability to work has occurred or an exception applies, in most cases (see paragraph (e) of this section for exceptions), we must also show that you are currently able to engage in substantial gainful activity before we can find that you are no longer disabled.
(b)
Terms and definitions.
There are several terms and definitions which are important to know in order to understand how we review whether your disability continues. In addition, see paragraph (i) of this section if you work during your current period of entitlement based on disability or during certain other periods.
(1)
Medical improvement.
Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of your impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled. A determination that there has been a decrease in medical severity must be based on improvement in the symptoms, signs, and/or laboratory findings associated with your impairment(s).

# Example 1:
You were awarded disability benefits due to a herniated nucleus pulposus. At the time of our prior decision granting you benefits you had had a laminectomy. Postoperatively, a myelogram still shows evidence of a persistent deficit in your lumbar spine. You had pain in your back, and pain and a burning sensation in your right foot and leg. There were no muscle weakness or neurological changes and a modest decrease in motion in your back and leg. When we reviewed your claim, your medical source, who has treated you, reported that he or she had seen you regularly every 2 to 3 months for the past 2 years. No further myelograms had been done, complaints of pain in the back and right leg continued especially on sitting or standing for more than a short period of time. Your doctor further reported a moderately decreased range of motion in your back and right leg, but again no muscle atrophy or neurological changes were reported. Medical improvement has
not
occurred because there has been no decrease in the severity of your back impairment as shown by changes in symptoms, signs or laboratory findings.

# Example 2:
You were awarded disability benefits due to rheumatoid arthritis. At the time, laboratory findings were positive for this condition. Your doctor reported persistent swelling and tenderness of your fingers and wrists and that you complained of joint pain. Current medical evidence shows that while laboratory tests are still positive for rheumatoid arthritis, your impairment has responded favorably to therapy so that
for the last year your fingers and wrists have not been significantly swollen or painful. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of your impairment as documented by the current symptoms and signs reported by your physician. Although your impairment is subject to temporary remission and exacerbations, the improvement that has occurred has been sustained long enough to permit a finding of medical improvement. We would then determine if this medical improvement is related to your ability to work.
(2)
Medical improvement not related to ability to do work.
Medical improvement is not related to your ability to work if there has been a decrease in the severity of the impairment(s) as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision, but
no
increase in your functional capacity to do basic work activities as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. If there has been any medical improvement in your impairment(s), but it is not related to your ability to do work and none of the exceptions applies, your benefits will be continued.

# Example:
You are 65 inches tall and weighed 246 pounds at the time your disability was established. You had venous insufficiency and persistent edema in your legs. At the time, your ability to do basic work activities was affected because you were able to sit for 6 hours, but were able to stand or walk only occasionally. At the time of our continuing disability review, you had undergone a vein stripping operation. You now weigh 220 pounds and have intermittent edema. You are still able to sit for 6 hours at a time and to stand or walk only occasionally although you report less discomfort on walking. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of the existing impairment as shown by your weight loss and the improvement in your edema. This medical improvement is not related to your ability to work, however, because your functional capacity to do basic work activities (
i.e.
, the ability to sit, stand and walk) has not increased.
(3)
Medical improvement that is related to ability to do work.
Medical improvement is related to your ability to work if there has been a decrease in the severity, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, of the impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision
and
an increase in your functional capacity to do basic work activities as discussed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. A determination that medical improvement related to your ability to do work has occurred does not, necessarily, mean that your disability will be found to have ended unless it is also shown that you are currently able to engage in substantial gainful activity as discussed in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

# Example 1:
You have a back impairment and had a laminectomy to relieve the nerve root impingement and weakness in your left leg. At the time of our prior decision, basic work activities were affected because you were able to stand less than 6 hours, and sit no more than
1/2
hour at a time. You had a successful fusion operation on your back about 1 year before our review of your entitlement. At the time of our review, the weakness in your leg has decreased. Your functional capacity to perform basic work activities now is unimpaired because you now have no limitation on your ability to sit, walk, or stand. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of your impairment as demonstrated by the decreased weakness in your leg. This medical improvement is related to your ability to work because there has also been an increase in your functional capacity to perform basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) as shown by the absence of limitation on your ability to sit, walk, or stand. Whether or not your disability is found to have ended, however, will depend on our determination as to whether you can currently engage in substantial gainful activity.

# Example 2:
You were injured in an automobile accident receiving a compound fracture to your right femur and a fractured pelvis. When you applied for disability benefits 10 months after the accident your doctor reported that neither fracture had yet achieved solid union based on his clinical examination. X-rays supported this finding. Your doctor estimated that solid union and a subsequent return to full weight bearing would not occur for at least 3 more months. At the time of our review 6 months later, solid union had occurred and you had been returned to full weight-bearing for over a month. Your doctor reported this and the fact that your prior fractures no longer placed any limitation on your ability to walk, stand, lift, etc., and, that in fact, you could return to fulltime work if you so desired.
Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of your impairments as shown by X-ray and clinical evidence of solid union and your return to full weight-bearing. This medical improvement is related to your ability to work
because you no longer meet the same listed impairment in appendix 1 of this subpart (see paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section). In fact, you no longer have an impairment which is severe (see § 404.1521) and your disability will be found to have ended.
(4)
Functional capacity to do basic work activities.
Under the law, disability is defined, in part, as the inability to do any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment(s). In determining whether you are disabled under the law, we must measure, therefore, how and to what extent your impairment(s) has affected your ability to do work. We do this by looking at how your functional capacity for doing basic work activities has been affected. Basic work activities means the abilities and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs. Included are exertional abilities such as walking, standing, pushing, pulling, reaching and carrying, and nonexertional abilities and aptitudes such as seeing, hearing, speaking, remembering, using judgment, dealing with changes and dealing with both supervisors and fellow workers. A person who has no impairment(s) would be able to do all basic work activities at normal levels; he or she would have an unlimited functional capacity to do basic work activities. Depending on its nature and severity, an impairment will result in some limitation to the functional capacity to do one or more of these basic work activities. Diabetes, for example, can result in circulatory problems which could limit the length of time a person could stand or walk and damage to his or her eyes as well, so that the person also had limited vision. What a person can still do despite an impairment, is called his or her residual functional capacity. How the residual functional capacity is assessed is discussed in more detail in § 404.1545. Unless an impairment is so severe that it is deemed to prevent you from doing substantial gainful activity (see §§ 404.1525 and 404.1526), it is this residual functional capacity that is used to determine whether you can still do your past work or, in conjunction with your age, education and work experience, any other work.
(i) A decrease in the severity of an impairment as measured by changes (improvement) in symptoms, signs or laboratory findings can, if great enough, result in an increase in the functional capacity to do work activities. Vascular surgery (e.g., femoropopliteal bypass) may sometimes reduce the severity of the circulatory complications of diabetes so that better circulation results and the person can stand or walk for longer periods. When new evidence showing a change in signs, symptoms and laboratory findings establishes that both medical improvement has occurred and your functional capacity to perform basic work activities, or residual functional capacity, has increased, we say that medical improvement which is related to your ability to do work has occurred. A residual functional capacity assessment is also used to determine whether you can engage in substantial gainful activity and, thus, whether you continue to be disabled (see paragraph (b)(5) of this section).
(ii) Many impairment-related factors must be considered in assessing your functional capacity for basic work activities. Age is one key factor. Medical literature shows that there is a gradual decrease in organ function with age; that major losses and deficits become irreversible over time and that maximum exercise performance diminishes with age. Other changes related to sustained periods of inactivity and the aging process include muscle atrophy, degenerative joint changes, decrease in range of motion, and changes in the cardiac and respiratory systems which limit the exertional range.
(iii) Studies have also shown that the longer an individual is away from the workplace and is inactive, the more difficult it becomes to return to ongoing gainful employment. In addition, a gradual change occurs in most jobs so that after about 15 years, it is no longer realistic to expect that skills and abilities acquired in these jobs will continue to apply to the current workplace. Thus, if you are age 50 or over and have been receiving disability benefits for a considerable period of time, we will consider this factor along with your age in assessing your residual functional capacity. This will ensure that the disadvantages resulting from inactivity and the aging process during
a long period of disability will be considered. In some instances where available evidence does not resolve what you can or cannot do on a sustained basis, we will provide special work evaluations or other appropriate testing.
(5)
Ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
In most instances, we must show that you are able to engage in substantial gainful activity before your benefits are stopped. When doing this, we will consider all your current impairments not just that impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable determination. If we cannot determine that you are still disabled based on medical considerations alone (as discussed in §§ 404.1525 and 404.1526), we will use the new symptoms, signs and laboratory findings to make an objective assessment of your functional capacity to do basic work activities or residual functional capacity and we will consider your vocational factors. See §§ 404.1545 through 404.1569.
(6)
Evidence and basis for our decision.
Our decisions under this section will be made on a neutral basis without any initial inference as to the presence or absence of disability being drawn from the fact that you have previously been determined to be disabled. We will consider all evidence you submit and that we obtain from your medical sources and nonmedical sources. What constitutes
evidence
and our procedures for obtaining it are set out in §§ 404.1512 through 404.1518. Our determination regarding whether your disability continues will be made on the basis of the weight of the evidence.
(7)
Point of comparison.
For purposes of determining whether medical improvement has occurred, we will compare the current medical severity of that impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled to the medical severity of that impairment(s) at that time. If medical improvement has occurred, we will compare your current functional capacity to do basic work activities (
i.e.
, your residual functional capacity) based on this previously existing impairment(s) with your prior residual functional capacity in order to determine whether the medical improvement is related to your ability to do work. The most recent favorable medical decision is the latest decision involving a consideration of the medical evidence and the issue of whether you were disabled or continued to be disabled which became final.
(c)
Determining medical improvement and its relationship to your abilities to do work.
Paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section discuss what we mean by medical improvement, medical improvement not related to your ability to work and medical improvement that is related to your ability to work. (In addition, see paragraph (i) of this section if you work during your current period of entitlement based on disability or during certain other periods.) How we will arrive at the decision that medical improvement has occurred and its relationship to the ability to do work, is discussed below.
(1)
Medical improvement.
Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled and is determined by a comparison of prior and current medical evidence which must show that there have been changes (improvement) in the symptoms, signs or laboratory findings associated with that impairment(s).
(2)
Determining if medical improvement is related to ability to work.
If there is a decrease in medical severity as shown by the symptoms, signs and laboratory findings, we then must determine if it is related to your ability to do work. In paragraph (b)(4) of this section, we explain the relationship between medical severity and limitation on functional capacity to do basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) and how changes in medical severity can affect your residual functional capacity. In determining whether medical improvement that has occurred is related to your ability to do work, we will assess your residual functional capacity (in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section) based on the current severity of the impairment(s) which was present at your last favorable medical decision. Your new residual functional
capacity will then be compared to your residual functional capacity at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision. Unless an increase in the current residual functional capacity is based on changes in the signs, symptoms, or laboratory findings, any medical improvement that has occurred will not be considered to be related to your ability to do work.
(3) Following are some additional factors and considerations which we will apply in making these determinations.
(i)
Previous impairment met or equaled listings.
If our most recent favorable decision was based on the fact that your impairment(s) at the time met or equaled the severity contemplated by the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of this subpart, an assessment of your residual functional capacity would not have been made. If medical improvement has occurred and the severity of the prior impairment(s) no longer meets or equals the same listing section used to make our most recent favorable decision, we will find that the medical improvement was related to your ability to work. Appendix 1 of this subpart describes impairments which, if severe enough, affect a person's ability to work. If the appendix level of severity is met or equaled, the individual is deemed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to be unable to engage in substantial gainful activity. If there has been medical improvement to the degree that the requirement of the listing section is no longer met or equaled, then the medical improvement is related to your ability to work. We must, of course, also establish that you can currently engage in gainful activity before finding that your disability has ended.
(ii)
Prior residual functional capacity assessment made.
The residual functional capacity assessment used in making the most recent favorable medical decision will be compared to the residual functional capacity assessment based on current evidence in order to determine if your functional capacity for basic work activities has increased. There will be no attempt made to reassess the prior residual functional capacity.
(iii)
Prior residual functional capacity assessment should have been made, but was not.
If the most recent favorable medical decision should have contained an assessment of your residual functional capacity (
i.e.
, your impairments did not meet or equal the level of severity contemplated by the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of this subpart) but does not, either because this assessment is missing from your file or because it was not done, we will reconstruct the residual functional capacity. This reconstructed residual functional capacity will accurately and objectively assess your functional capacity to do basic work activities. We will assign the maximum functional capacity consistent with an allowance.

# Example:
You were previously found to be disabled on the basis that “while your impairment did not meet or equal a listing, it did prevent you from doing your past or any other work.” The prior adjudicator did not, however, include a residual functional capacity assessment in the rationale of this decision and a review of the prior evidence does not show that such an assessment was ever made. If a decrease in medical severity,
i.e.
, medical improvement, has occurred, the residual functional capacity based on the current level of severity of your impairment will have to be compared with your residual functional capacity based on its prior severity in order to determine if the medical improvement is related to your ability to do work. In order to make this comparison, we will review the prior evidence and make an objective assessment of your residual functional capacity at the time of our most recent favorable medical determination, based on the symptoms, signs and laboratory findings as they then existed.
(iv)
Impairment subject to temporary remission.
In some cases the evidence shows that an individual's impairments are subject to temporary remission. In assessing whether medical improvement has occurred in persons with this type of impairment, we will be careful to consider the longitudinal history of the impairments, including the occurrence of prior remission, and prospects for future worsenings. Improvement in such impairments that is only temporary will not warrant a finding of medical improvement.
(v)
Prior file cannot be located.
If the prior file cannot be located, we will first determine whether you are able to
now engage in substantial gainful activity based on all your current impairments. (In this way, we will be able to determine that your disability continues at the earliest point without addressing the often lengthy process of reconstructing prior evidence.) If you cannot engage in substantial gainful activity currently, your benefits will continue unless one of the second group of exceptions applies (see paragraph (e) of this section). If you are able to engage in substantial gainful activity, we will determine whether an attempt should be made to reconstruct those portions of the missing file that were relevant to our most recent favorable medical decision (e.g., work history, medical evidence, and the results of consultative examinations). This determination will consider the potential availability of old records in light of their age, whether the source of the evidence is still in operation; and whether reconstruction efforts will yield a complete record of the basis for the most recent favorable medical decision. If relevant parts of the prior record are not reconstructed either because it is determined not to attempt reconstruction or because such efforts fail, medical improvement cannot be found. The documentation of your current impairments will provide a basis for any future reviews. If the missing file is later found, it may serve as a basis for reopening any decision under this section in accordance with the rules in § 404.988.
(d)
First group of exceptions to medical improvement.
The law provides for certain limited situations when your disability can be found to have ended even though medical improvement has not occurred, if you can engage in substantial gainful activity. These exceptions to medical improvement are intended to provide a way of finding that a person is no longer disabled in those limited situations where, even though there has been no decrease in severity of the impairment(s), evidence shows that the person should no longer be considered disabled or never should have been considered disabled. If one of these exceptions applies, we must also show that, taking all your current impairment(s) into account, not just those that existed at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision, you are now able to engage in substantial gainful activity before your disability can be found to have ended. As part of the review process, you will be asked about any medical or vocational therapy you received or are receiving. Your answers and the evidence gathered as a result as well as all other evidence, will serve as the basis for the finding that an exception applies.
(1)
Substantial evidence shows that you are the beneficiary of advances in medical or vocational therapy or technology (related to your ability to work).
Advances in medical or vocational therapy or technology are improvements in treatment or rehabilitative methods which have increased your ability to do basic work activities. We will apply this exception when substantial evidence shows that you have been the beneficiary of services which reflect these advances and they have favorably affected the severity of your impairment or your ability to do basic work activities. This decision will be based on new medical evidence and a new residual functional capacity assessment. (See § 404.1545.) In many instances, an advanced medical therapy or technology will result in a decrease in severity as shown by symptoms, signs and laboratory findings which will meet the definition of medical improvement. This exception will, therefore, see very limited application.
(2)
Substantial evidence shows that you have undergone vocational therapy (related to your ability to work).
Vocational therapy (related to your ability to work) may include, but is not limited to, additional education, training, or work experience that improves your ability to meet the vocational requirements of more jobs. This decision will be based on substantial evidence which includes new medical evidence and a new residual functional capacity assessment. (See § 404.1545.) If, at the time of our review you have not completed vocational therapy which could affect the continuance of your disability, we will review your claim upon completion of the therapy.

# Example 1:
You were found to be disabled because the limitations imposed on you by your impairment allowed you to only do
work that was at a sedentary level of exertion. Your prior work experience was work that required a medium level of exertion. Your age and education at the time would not have qualified you for work that was below this medium level of exertion. You enrolled in and completed a specialized training course which qualifies you for a job in data processing as a computer programmer in the period since you were awarded benefits. On review of your claim, current evidence shows that there is no medical improvement and that you can still do only sedentary work. As the work of a computer programmer is sedentary in nature, you are now able to engage in substantial gainful activity when your new skills are considered.

# Example 2:
You were previously entitled to benefits because the medical evidence and assessment of your residual functional capacity showed you could only do light work. Your prior work was considered to be heavy in nature and your age, education and the nature of your prior work qualified you for work which was no less than medium in exertion. The current evidence and residual functional capacity show there has been no medical improvement and that you can still do only light work. Since you were originally entitled to benefits, your vocational rehabilitation agency enrolled you in and you successfully completed a trade school course so that you are now qualified to do small appliance repair. This work is light in nature, so when your new skills are considered, you are now able to engage in substantial gainful activity even though there has been no change in your residual functional capacity.
(3)
Substantial evidence shows that based on new or improved diagnostic or evaluative techniques your impairment(s) is not as disabling as it was considered to be at the time of the most recent favorable decision.
Changing methodologies and advances in medical and other diagnostic or evaluative techniques have given, and will continue to give, rise to improved methods for measuring and documenting the effect of various impairments on the ability to do work. Where, by such new or improved methods, substantial evidence shows that your impairment(s) is not as severe as was determined at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision, such evidence may serve as a basis for finding that you are no longer disabled, if you can currently engage in substantial gainful activity. In order to be used under this exception, however, the new or improved techniques must have become generally available after the date of our most recent favorable medical decision.
(i)
How we will determine which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
New or improved diagnostic techniques or evaluations will come to our attention by several methods. In reviewing cases, we often become aware of new techniques when their results are presented as evidence. Such techniques and evaluations are also discussed and acknowledged in medical literature by medical professional groups and other governmental entities. Through these sources, we develop listings of new techniques and when they become generally available. For example, we will consult the Health Care Financing Administration for its experience regarding when a technique is recognized for payment under Medicare and when they began paying for the technique.
(ii)
How you will know which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
We will let you know which methods we consider to be new or improved techniques and when they become available through two vehicles.
(A) Some of the future changes in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of this subpart will be based on new or improved diagnostic or evaluative techniques. Such listings changes will clearly state this fact as they are published as Notices of Proposed Rulemaking and the new or improved technique will be considered generally available as of the date of the final publication of that particular listing in the
Federal Register.
(B) A cumulative list since 1970 of new or improved diagnostic techniques or evaluations, how they changed the evaluation of the applicable impairment and the month and year they became generally available, will be published in the
Notices
section of the
Federal Register.
Included will be any changes in the Listing of Impairments published in the Code of Federal Regulations since 1970 which are reflective of new or improved techniques. No cases will be processed under this exception until this cumulative listing is so published. Subsequent changes to the list will be published periodically.
The period will be determined by the volume of changes needed.

# Example:
The electrocardiographic exercise test has replaced the Master's 2-step test as a measurement of heart function since the time of your last favorable medical decision. Current evidence could show that your condition, which was previously evaluated based on the Master's 2-step test, is not now as disabling as was previously thought. If, taking all your current impairments into account, you are now able to engage in substantial gainful activity, this exception would be used to find that you are no longer disabled even if medical improvement has not occurred.
(4)
Substantial evidence demonstrates that any prior disability decision was in error.
We will apply the exception to medical improvement based on error if substantial evidence (which may be evidence on the record at the time any prior determination of the entitlement to benefits based on disability was made, or newly obtained evidence which relates to that determination) demonstrates that a prior determination was in error. A prior determination will be found in error only if:
(i) Substantial evidence shows on its face that the decision in question should not have been made (e.g., the evidence in your file such as pulmonary function study values was misread or an adjudicative standard such as a listing in appendix 1 or a medical/vocational rule in appendix 2 of this subpart was misapplied).

# Example 1:
You were granted benefits when it was determined that your epilepsy met Listing 11.02. This listing calls for a finding of major motor seizures more frequently than once a month as documented by EEG evidence and by a detailed description of a typical seizure pattern. A history of either diurnal episodes or nocturnal episodes with residuals interfering with daily activities is also required. On review, it is found that a history of the frequency of your seizures showed that they occurred only once or twice a year. The prior decision would be found to be in error, and whether you were still considered to be disabled would be based on whether you could currently engage in substantial gainful activity.

# Example 2:
Your prior award of benefits was based on vocational rule 201.12 in appendix 2 of this subpart. This rule applies to a person age 50-54 who has at least a high school education, whose previous work was entirely at a semiskilled level, and who can do only sedentary work. On review, it is found that at the time of the prior determination you were actually only age 46 and vocational rule 201.21 should have been used. This rule would have called for a denial of your claim and the prior decision is found to have been in error. Continuation of your disability would depend on a finding of your current ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
(ii) At the time of the prior evaluation, required and material evidence of the severity of your impairment(s) was missing. That evidence becomes available upon review, and substantial evidence demonstrates that had such evidence been present at the time of the prior determination, disability would not have been found.

# Example:
You were found disabled on the basis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The severity of your impairment was documented primarily by pulmonary function testing results. The evidence showed that you could do only light work. Spirometric tracings of this testing, although required, were not obtained, however. On review, the original report is resubmitted by the consultative examining physician along with the corresponding spirometric tracings. A review of the tracings shows that the test was invalid. Current pulmonary function testing supported by spirometric tracings reveals that your impairment does not limit your ability to perform basic work activities in any way. Error is found based on the fact that required, material evidence which was originally missing now becomes available and shows that if it had been available at the time of the prior determination, disability would not have been found.
(iii) Substantial evidence which is new evidence which relates to the prior determination (of allowance or continuance) refutes the conclusions that were based upon the prior evidence (e.g., a tumor thought to be malignant was later shown to have actually been benign). Substantial evidence must show that had the new evidence (which relates to the prior determination) been considered at the time of the prior decision, the claim would not have been allowed or continued. A substitution of current judgment for that used in the prior favorable decision will not be the basis for applying this exception.

# Example:
You were previously found entitled to benefits on the basis of diabetes mellitus which the prior adjudicator believed was equivalent to the level of severity contemplated in the Listing of Impairments.
The prior record shows that you had “brittle” diabetes for which you were taking insulin. Your urine was 3 + for sugar, and you alleged occasional hypoglycemic attacks caused by exertion. On review, symptoms, signs and laboratory findings are unchanged. The current adjudicator feels, however, that your impairment clearly does not equal the severity contemplated by the listings. Error
cannot
be found because it would represent a substitution of current judgment for that of the prior adjudicator that your impairment equaled a listing.
(iv) The exception for error will not be applied retroactively under the conditions set out above unless the conditions for reopening the prior decision (see § 404.988) are met.
(5)
You are currently engaging in substantial gainful activity.
If you are currently engaging in substantial gainful activity before we determine whether you are no longer disabled because of your work activity, we will consider whether you are entitled to a trial work period as set out in § 404.1592. We will find that your disability has ended in the month in which you demonstrated your ability to engage in substantial gainful activity (following completion of a trial work period, where it applies). This exception does not apply in determining whether you continue to have a disabling impairment(s) (§ 404.1511) for purposes of deciding your eligibility for a reentitlement period (§ 404.1592a).
(e)
Second group of exceptions to medical improvement.
In addition to the first group of exceptions to medical improvement, the following exceptions may result in a determination that you are no longer disabled. In these situations the decision will be made without a determination that you have medically improved or can engage in substantial gainful activity.
(1)
A prior determination or decision was fraudulently obtained.
If we find that any prior favorable determination or decision was obtained by fraud, we may find that you are not disabled. In addition, we may reopen your claim under the rules in § 404.988. In determining whether a prior favorable determination or decision was fraudulently obtained, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which you may have had at the time.
(2)
You do not cooperate with us.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled and we ask you to give us medical or other evidence or to go for a physical or mental examination by a certain date, we will find that your disability has ended if you fail, without good cause, to do what we ask. Section 404.911 explains the factors we consider and how we will determine generally whether you have good cause for failure to cooperate. In addition, § 404.1518 discusses how we determine whether you have good cause for failing to attend a consultative examination. The month in which your disability ends will be the first month in which you failed to do what we asked.
(3)
We are unable to find you.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled and we are unable to find you to resolve the question, we will determine that your disability has ended. The month your disability ends will be the first month in which the question arose and we could not find you.
(4)
You fail to follow prescribed treatment which would be expected to restore your ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
If treatment has been prescribed for you which would be expected to restore your ability to work, you must follow that treatment in order to be paid benefits. If you are not following that treatment and you do not have good cause for failing to follow that treatment, we will find that your disability has ended (see § 404.1530(c)). The month your disability ends will be the first month in which you failed to follow the prescribed treatment.
(f)
Evaluation steps.
To assure that disability reviews are carried out in a uniform manner, that decisions of continuing disability can be made in the most expeditious and administratively efficient way, and that any decisions to stop disability benefits are made objectively, neutrally and are fully documented, we will follow specific steps in reviewing the question of whether your disability continues. Our review may cease and benefits may be
continued
at any point if we determine there is sufficient evidence to find that you are
still unable to engage in substantial gainful activity. The steps are as follows. (See paragraph (i) of this section if you work during your current period of entitlement based on disability or during certain other periods.)
(1) Are you engaging in substantial gainful activity? If you are (and any applicable trial work period has been completed), we will find disability to have ended (see paragraph (d)(5) of this section).
(2) If you are not, do you have an impairment or combination of impairments which meets or equals the severity of an impairment listed in appendix 1 of this subpart? If you do, your disability will be found to continue.
(3) If you do not, has there been medical improvement as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section? If there has been medical improvement as shown by a decrease in medical severity, see step (4). If there has been no decrease in medical severity, there has been no medical improvement. (See step (5).)
(4) If there has been medical improvement, we must determine whether it is related to your ability to do work in accordance with paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section;
i.e.
, whether or not there has been an increase in the residual functional capacity based on the impairment(s) that was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical determination. If medical improvement is
not
related to your ability to do work, see step (5). If medical improvement
is
related to your ability to do work, see step (6).
(5) If we found at step (3) that there has been no medical improvement or if we found at step (4) that the medical improvement is not related to your ability to work, we consider whether any of the exceptions in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section apply. If none of them apply, your disability will be found to continue. If one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, see step (6). If an exception from the second group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, your disability will be found to have ended. The second group of exceptions to medical improvement may be considered at any point in this process.
(6) If medical improvement is shown to be related to your ability to do work or if one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, we will determine whether all your current impairments in combination are severe (see § 404.1521). This determination will consider all your current impairments and the impact of the combination of those impairments on your ability to function. If the residual functional capacity assessment in step (4) above shows significant limitation of your ability to do basic work activities, see step (7). When the evidence shows that all your current impairments in combination do not significantly limit your physical or mental abilities to do basic work activities, these impairments will not be considered severe in nature. If so, you will no longer be considered to be disabled.
(7) If your impairment(s) is severe, we will assess your current ability to do substantial gainful activity in accordance with § 404.1560. That is, we will assess your residual functional capacity based on all your current impairments and consider whether you can still do work you have done in the past. If you can do such work, disability will be found to have ended.
(8) If you are not able to do work you have done in the past, we will consider whether you can do other work given the residual functional capacity assessment made under paragraph (f)(7) of this section and your age, education, and past work experience (
see
paragraph (f)(9) of this section for an exception to this rule). If you can, we will find that your disability has ended. If you cannot, we will find that your disability continues.
(9) We may proceed to the final step, described in paragraph (f)(8) of this section, if the evidence in your file about your past relevant work is not sufficient for us to make a finding under paragraph (f)(7) of this section about whether you can perform your past relevant work. If we find that you can adjust to other work based solely on your age, education, and residual functional capacity, we will find that you are no longer disabled, and we will not make a finding about whether you can do your past relevant work under paragraph (f)(7) of this section. If we find that you may be unable to adjust to other work or if § 404.1562 may apply, we will assess
your claim under paragraph (f)(7) of this section and make a finding about whether you can perform your past relevant work.
(g)
The month in which we will find you are no longer disabled.
If the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled, we will find that your disability ended in the earliest of the following months.
(1) The month the evidence shows you are no longer disabled under the rules set out in this section, and you were disabled only for a specified period of time in the past;
(2) The month the evidence shows you are no longer disabled under the rules set out in this section, but not earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that the information we have shows that you are not disabled;
(3) The month in which you demonstrated your ability to engage in substantial gainful activity (following completion of a trial work period); however, we may pay you benefits for certain months in and after the reentitlement period which follows the trial work period. (See § 404.1592a for a discussion of the reentitlement period. If you are receiving benefits on your own earnings record, see § 404.316 for when your benefits will end. See § 404.352 if you are receiving benefits on a parent's earnings as a disabled adult child.);
(4) The month in which you actually do substantial gainful activity (where you are not entitled to a trial work period);
(5) The month in which you return to full-time work, with no significant medical restrictions and acknowledge that medical improvement has occurred, and we expected your impairment(s) to improve (see § 404.1591);
(6) The first month in which you failed without good cause to do what we asked, when the rule set out in paragraph (e)(2) of this section applies;
(7) The first month in which the question of continuing disability arose and we could not find you, when the rule set out in paragraph (e)(3) of this section applies;
(8) The first month in which you failed without good cause to follow prescribed treatment, when the rule set out in paragraph (e)(4) of this section applies; or
(9) The first month you were told by your physician that you could return to work, provided there is no substantial conflict between your physician's and your statements regarding your awareness of your capacity for work and the earlier date is supported by substantial evidence.
(h)
Before we stop your benefits.
Before we stop your benefits or a period of disability, we will give you a chance to explain why we should not do so. Sections 404.1595 and 404.1597 describe your rights (including appeal rights) and the procedures we will follow.
(i)
If you work during your current period of entitlement based on disability or during certain other periods.
(1) We will not consider the work you are doing or have done during your current period of entitlement based on disability (or, when determining whether you are entitled to expedited reinstatement of benefits under section 223(i) of the Act, the work you are doing or have done during or after the previously terminated period of entitlement referred to in section 223(i)(1)(B) of the Act) to be past relevant work under paragraph (f)(7) of this section or past work experience under paragraph (f)(8) of this section. In addition, if you are currently entitled to disability benefits under title II of the Social Security Act, we may or may not consider the physical and mental activities that you perform in the work you are doing or have done during your current period of entitlement based on disability, as explained in paragraphs (i)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) If you are currently entitled to disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability under title II of the Social Security Act, and at the time we are making a determination on your case you have received such benefits for at least 24 months, we will not consider the activities you perform in the work you are doing or have done during your current period of entitlement based on disability if they support a finding that your disability has ended. (We will use the rules in § 404.1590(i)(2) to determine
whether the 24-month requirement is met.) However, we will consider the activities you do in that work if they support a finding that your disability continues or they do not conflict with a finding that your disability continues. We will not presume that you are still disabled if you stop working.
(3) If you are not a person described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, we will consider the activities you perform in your work at any of the evaluation steps in paragraph (f) of this section at which we need to assess your ability to function.
[50 FR 50130, Dec. 6, 1985; 51 FR 7063, Feb. 28, 1986; 51 FR 16015, Apr. 30, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 44971, Nov. 24, 1987; 57 FR 30121, July 8, 1992; 59 FR 1635, Jan. 12, 1994; 65 FR 42788, July 11, 2000; 68 FR 51163, Aug. 26, 2003; 71 FR 66857, Nov. 17, 2006; 77 FR 43495, July 25, 2012; 82 FR 5871, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 404.1595
When we determine that you are not now disabled.
(a)
When we will give you advance notice.
Except in those circumstances described in paragraph (d) of this section, we will give you advance notice when we have determined that you are not now disabled because the information we have conflicts with what you have told us about your disability. If your dependents are receiving benefits on your Social Security number and do not live with you, we will also give them advance notice. To give you advance notice, we will contact you by mail, telephone or in person.
(b)
What the advance notice will tell you.
We will give you a summary of the information we have. We will also tell you why we have determined that you are not now disabled, and will give you a chance to reply. If it is because of—
(1)
Medical reasons.
The advance notice will tell you what the medical information in your file shows;
(2)
Your work activity.
The advance notice will tell you what information we have about the work you are doing or have done, and why this work shows that you are not disabled; or
(3)
Your failure to give us information we need or do what we ask.
The advance notice will tell you what information we need and why we need it or what you have to do and why.
(c)
What you should do if you receive an advance notice.
If you agree with the advance notice, you do not need to take any action. If you desire further information or disagree with what we have told you, you should immediately write or telephone the State agency or the social security office that gave you the advance notice or you may visit any social security office. If you believe you are now disabled, you should tell us why. You may give us any additional or new information, including reports from your doctors, hospitals, employers or others, that you believe we should have. You should send these as soon as possible to the local social security office or to the office that gave you the advance notice. We consider 10 days to be enough time for you to tell us, although we will allow you more time if you need it. You will have to ask for additional time beyond 10 days if you need it.
(d)
When we will not give you advance notice.
We will not give you advance notice when we determine that you are not disabled if—
(1) We recently told you that the information we have shows that you are not now disabled, that we were gathering more information, and that your benefits will stop; or
(2) We are stopping your benefits because you told us you are not now disabled; or
(3) We recently told you that continuing your benefits would probably cause us to overpay you and you asked us to stop your benefits.
§ 404.1596
Circumstances under which we may suspend and terminate your benefits before we make a determination.
(a)
General.
Under some circumstances, we may stop your benefits before we make a determination. Generally, we do this when the information we have clearly shows you are not now disabled but we cannot determine when your disability ended. These situations are described in paragraph (b)(1) and other reasons are given in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. We refer to this as a suspension of benefits. Your benefits, as well as those of your dependents (regardless of where they receive their benefits), may be suspended. When we
do this we will give you advance notice. (See § 404.1595.) We will contact your spouse and children if they are receiving benefits on your Social Security number, and the benefits are being mailed to an address different from your own.
(b)
When we will suspend your benefits
—(1)
You are not now disabled.
We will suspend your benefits if the information we have clearly shows that you are not disabled and we will be unable to complete a determination soon enough to prevent us from paying you more monthly benefits than you are entitled to. This may occur when—
(i) New medical or other information clearly shows that you are able to do substantial gainful activity and your benefits should have stopped more than 2 months ago;
(ii) You completed a 9-month period of trial work more than 2 months ago and you are still working;
(iii) At the time you filed for benefits your condition was expected to improve and you were expected to be able to return to work. You subsequently did return to work more than 2 months ago with no significant medical restrictions; or
(iv) You are not entitled to a trial work period and you are working.
(2)
Other reasons.
We will also suspend your benefits if—
(i) You have failed to respond to our request for additional medical or other evidence and we are satisfied that you received our request and our records show that you should be able to respond; or
(ii) We are unable to locate you and your checks have been returned by the Post Office as undeliverable.
(c)
When we will not suspend your cash benefits.
We will not suspend your cash benefits if—
(1) You have become disabled by another impairment; or
(2) Even though your impairment is no longer disabling,
(i) You are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services, as described in § 404.327(a) and (b);
(ii) You began participating in the program before the date your disability ended; and
(iii) We have determined under § 404.328 that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
(d)
When the suspension is effective.
We will suspend your benefits effective with the month in which it is determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section that your disability benefits should stop due to your failure, without good cause (see § 404.911), to comply with our request for necessary information for your continuing disability review. This review is to determine whether or not you continue to meet the disability requirements of the law. When we have received the information, we will reinstate your benefits for any previous month for which they are otherwise payable, and continue with the CDR process.
(e)
When we will terminate your benefits.
We will terminate your benefits following 12 consecutive months of benefit suspension because you did not comply with our request for information in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. We will count the 12-month suspension period from the start of the first month that you stopped receiving benefits (see paragraph (d) of this section). This termination is effective with the start of the 13th month after the suspension began because you failed to cooperate.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 31543, July 21, 1982; 47 FR 52693, Nov. 23, 1982; 51 FR 17617, May 14, 1986; 68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003; 70 FR 36507, June 24, 2005; 71 FR 60822, Oct. 17, 2006]
§ 404.1597
After we make a determination that you are not now disabled.
(a)
General.
If we determine that you do not meet the disability requirements of the law, your benefits generally will stop. We will send you a formal written notice telling you why we believe you are not disabled and when your benefits should stop. If your spouse and children are receiving benefits on your social security number, we will also stop their benefits and tell them why. The notices will explain your right to reconsideration if you
disagree with our determination. However, your benefits may continue even though your impairment is no longer disabling, if you are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services (see § 404.327). You must have started participating in the program before the date your disability ended. In addition, we must have determined that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls. (See §§ 404.316(c), 404.328, 404.337(c), 404.352(d), and 404.1586(g).) You may still appeal our determination that you are not disabled even though your benefits are continuing because of your participation in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services. You may also appeal a determination that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will not increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls and, therefore, you are not entitled to continue to receive benefits.
(b)
If we make a determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, did not exist, or is no longer disabling (Medical Cessation Determination).
If we make a determination that the physical or mental impairment(s) on the basis of which benefits were payable has ceased, did not exist, or is no longer disabling (a medical cessation determination), your benefits will stop. As described in paragraph (a) of this section, you will receive a written notice explaining this determination and the month your benefits will stop. The written notice will also explain your right to appeal if you disagree with our determination and your right to request that your benefits and the benefits, if any, of your spouse or children, be continued under § 404.1597a. For the purpose of this section,
benefits
means disability cash payments and/or Medicare, if applicable. The continued benefit provisions of this section do not apply to an initial determination on an application for disability benefits, or to a determination that you were disabled only for a specified period of time.
[47 FR 31544, July 21, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 17618, May 14, 1986; 53 FR 29020, Aug. 2, 1988; 53 FR 39015, Oct. 4, 1988; 70 FR 36507, June 24, 2005]
§ 404.1597a
Continued benefits pending appeal of a medical cessation determination.
(a)
General.
If we determine that you are not entitled to benefits because the physical or mental impairment(s) on the basis of which such benefits were payable is found to have ceased, not to have existed, or to no longer be disabling, and you appeal that determination, you may choose to have your benefits continued pending reconsideration and/or a hearing before an administrative law judge on the disability cessation determination. For the purpose of this entire section, the election of
continued benefits
means the election of disability cash payments and/or Medicare, if applicable. You can also choose to have the benefits continued for anyone else receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income (and anyone else receiving benefits because of your entitlement to benefits based on disability). If you appeal a medical cessation under both title II and title XVI (a concurrent case), the title II claim will be handled in accordance with title II regulations while the title XVI claim will be handled in accordance with the title XVI regulations.
(b)
When the provisions of this section are available.
(1) Benefits may be continued under this section only if the determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling is made on or after January 12, 1983 (or before January 12, 1983, and a timely request for reconsideration or a hearing before an administrative law judge is pending on that date).
(2) Benefits may be continued under this section only for months beginning with January 1983, or the first month
for which benefits are no longer otherwise payable following our determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling, whichever is later.
(3) Continued payment of benefits under this section will stop effective with the earlier of:
(i) The month before the month in which an administrative law judge's hearing decision finds that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling or the month before the month of a new administrative law judge decision (or final action by the Appeals Council on the administrative law judge's recommended decision) if your case was sent back to an administrative law judge for further action; or
(ii) The month before the month no timely request for a reconsideration or a hearing before an administrative law judge is pending. These continued benefits may be stopped or adjusted because of certain events (such as work and earnings or receipt of worker's compensation) which occur while you are receiving these continued benefits and affect your right to receive continued benefits.
(c)
Continuation of benefits for anyone else pending your appeal.
(1) When you file a request for reconsideration or hearing before an administrative law judge on our determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling, or your case has been sent back (remanded) to an administrative law judge for further action, you may also choose to have benefits continue for anyone else who is receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income (and for anyone else receiving benefits because of your entitlement to benefits based on disability), pending the outcome of your appeal.
(2) If anyone else is receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income, we will notify him or her of the right to choose to have his or her benefits continue pending the outcome of your appeal. Such benefits can be continued for the time period in paragraph (b) of this section only if he or she chooses to have benefits continued and you also choose to have his or her benefits continued.
(d)
Statement of choice.
When you or another party request reconsideration under § 404.908(a) or a hearing before an administrative law judge under § 404.932(a) on our determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling, or if your case is sent back (remanded) to an administrative law judge for further action, we will explain your right to receive continued benefits and ask you to complete a statement specifying which benefits you wish to have continued pending the outcome of the reconsideration or hearing before an administrative law judge. You may elect to receive only Medicare benefits during appeal even if you do not want to receive continued disability benefits. If anyone else is receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income (or because of your entitlement to benefits based on disability), we will ask you to complete a statement specifying which benefits you wish to have continued for them, pending the outcome of the request for reconsideration or hearing before an administrative law judge. If you request appeal but you do not want to receive continued benefits, we will ask you to complete a statement declining continued benefits indicating that you do not want to have your benefits and those of your family, if any, continued during the appeal.
(e)
Your spouse's or children's statement of choice.
If you request, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, that benefits also be continued for anyone who had been receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment, we will send them a written notice. The notice will explain their rights and ask them to complete a statement either declining continued benefits, or specifying which benefits they wish to have continued, pending the outcome of the request for reconsideration or a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(f)
What you must do to receive continued benefits pending notice of our reconsideration determination.
(1) If you want to receive continued benefits pending
the outcome of your request for reconsideration, you must request reconsideration and continuation of benefits no later than 10 days after the date you receive the notice of our initial determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling. Reconsideration must be requested as provided in § 404.909, and you must request continued benefits using a statement in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) If you fail to request reconsideration and continued benefits within the 10-day period required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section, but later ask that we continue your benefits pending a reconsidered determination, we will use the rules in § 404.911 to determine whether good cause exists for your failing to request benefit continuation within 10 days after receipt of the notice of the initial cessation determination. If you request continued benefits after the 10-day period, we will consider the request to be timely and will pay continued benefits only if good cause for delay is established.
(g)
What you must do to receive continued benefits pending an administrative law judge's decision.
(1) To receive continued benefits pending an administrative law judge's decision on our reconsideration determination, you must request a hearing and continuation of benefits no later than 10 days after the date you receive the notice of our reconsideration determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling. A hearing must be requested as provided in § 404.933, and you must request continued benefits using a statement in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) If you request continued benefits pending an administrative law judge's decision but did not request continued benefits while we were reconsidering the initial cessation determination, your benefits will begin effective the month of the reconsideration determination.
(3) If you fail to request continued payment of benefits within the 10-day period required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, but you later ask that we continue your benefits pending an administrative law judge's decision on our reconsidered determination, we will use the rules as provided in § 404.911 to determine whether good cause exists for your failing to request benefit continuation within 10 days after receipt of the reconsideration determination. If you request continued benefits after the 10-day period, we will consider the request to be timely and will pay continued benefits only if good cause for delay is established.
(h)
What anyone else must do to receive continued benefits pending our reconsideration determination or an administrative law judge's decision.
(1) When you or another party (see §§ 404.908(a) and 404.932(a)) request a reconsideration or a hearing before an administrative law judge on our medical cessation determination or when your case is sent back (remanded) to an administrative law judge for further action, you may choose to have benefits continue for anyone else who is receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income. An eligible individual must also choose whether or not to have his or her benefits continue pending your appeal by completing a separate statement of election as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) He or she must request continuation of benefits no later than 10 days after the date he or she receives notice of termination of benefits. He or she will then receive continued benefits beginning with the later of January 1983, or the first month for which benefits are no longer otherwise payable following our initial or reconsideration determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling. Continued benefits will continue until the earlier of:
(i) The month before the month in which an administrative law judge's hearing decision finds that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling or the month before the month of the new administrative law judge decision (or final action is taken by the Appeals Council on the administrative law judge's recommended decision) if your case was sent back to an administrative law judge for further action; or
(ii) The month before the month no timely request for a reconsideration or a hearing before an administrative law judge is pending. These continued benefits may be stopped or adjusted because of certain events (such as work and earnings or payment of worker's compensation) which occur while an eligible individual is receiving continued benefits and affect his or her right to receive continued benefits.
(3) If he or she fails to request continuation of benefits within the 10-day period required by this paragraph, but requests continuation of benefits at a later date, we will use the rules as provided in § 404.911 to determine whether good cause exists for his or her failure to request continuation of benefits within 10 days after receipt of the notice of termination of his or her benefits. His or her late request will be considered to be timely and we will pay him or her continued benefits only if good cause for delay is established.
(4) If you choose not to have benefits continued for anyone else who is receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income, pending the appeal on our determination, we will not continue benefits to him or her.
(i)
What you must do when your case is remanded to an administrative law judge.
If we send back (remand) your case to an administrative law judge for further action under the rules provided in § 404.977, and the administrative law judge's decision or dismissal order issued on your medical cessation appeal is vacated and is no longer in effect, continued benefits are payable pending a new decision by the administrative law judge or final action is taken by the Appeals Council on the administrative law judge's recommended decision.
(1) If you (and anyone else receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income or because of your disability) previously elected to receive continued benefits pending the administrative law judge's decision, we will automatically start these same continued benefits again. We will send you a notice telling you this, and that you do not have to do anything to have these same benefits continued until the month before the month the new decision of order of dismissal is issued by the administrative law judge or until the month before the month the Appeals Council takes final action on the administrative law judge's recommended decision. These benefits will begin again with the first month of nonpayment based on the prior administrative law judge hearing decision or dismissal order. Our notice explaining reinstatement of continued benefits will also tell you to report to us any changes or events that affect your receipt of benefits.
(2) After we automatically reinstate your continued benefits as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, we will contact you to determine if any adjustment is required to the amount of continued benefits payable due to events that affect the right to receive benefits involving you, your spouse and/or children. If you have returned to work, we will request additional information about this work activity. If you are working, your continued benefits will not be stopped while your appeal of the medical cessation of disability is still pending unless you have completed a trial work period and are engaging in substantial gainful activity. In this event, we will suspend your continued benefits. If any other changes have occurred which would require a reduction in benefit amounts, or nonpayment of benefits, we will send an advance notice to advise of any adverse change before the adjustment action is taken. The notice will also advise you of the right to explain why these benefits should not be adjusted or stopped. You will also receive a written notice of our determination. The notice will also explain your right to reconsideration if you disagree with this determination.
(3) If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is a favorable one, we will send you a written notice in which we will advise you of your right to benefits, if any, before you engaged in substantial gainful activity and to reentitlement should you stop performing substantial gainful activity. If you disagree with our determination, you will have the right to appeal this decision.
(4) If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is an unfavorable one (the cessation is affirmed), you will also be sent a written notice advising you of our determination, and your right to appeal if you think we are wrong.
(5) If you (or the others receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income or because of your disability) did not previously elect to have benefits continued pending an administrative law judge decision, and you now want to elect continued benefits, you must request to do so no later than 10 days after you receive our notice telling you about continued benefits. If you fail to request continued benefits within the 10-day period required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section, but later ask that we continue your benefits pending an administrative law judge remand decision, we will use the rules in § 404.911 to determine whether good cause exists for your failing to request benefit continuation within 10 days after receipt of the notice telling you about benefit continuation. We will consider the request to be timely and will pay continued benefits only if good cause for delay is established. If you make this new election, benefits may begin with the month of the order sending (remanding) your case back to the administrative law judge. Before we begin to pay you continued benefits as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section we will contact you to determine if any adjustment is required to the amount of continued benefits payable due to events which may affect your right to benefits. If you have returned to work, we will request additional information about this work activity. If you are working, continued benefits may be started and will not be stopped because of your work while your appeal of the medical cessation of your disability is still pending unless you have completed a trial work period and are engaging in substantial gainful activity. If any changes have occurred which establish a basis for not paying continued benefits or a reduction in benefit amount, we will send you a notice explaining the adjustment or the reason why we cannot pay continued benefits. The notice will also explain your right to reconsideration if you disagree with this determination. If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is a favorable one, we will send you a written notice in which we will advise you of your right to benefits, if any, before you engaged in substantial gainful activity and to reentitlement should you stop performing substantial gainful activity. If you disagree with our determination, you will have the right to appeal this decision. If the final decision on your appeal of your medical cessation is an unfavorable one (the cessation is affirmed), you will also be sent a written notice advising you of our determination, and your right to appeal if you think we are wrong.
(6) If a court orders that your case be sent back to us (remanded) and your case is sent to an administrative law judge for further action under the rules provided in § 404.983, the administrative law judge's decision or dismissal order on your medical cessation appeal is vacated and is no longer in effect. Continued benefits are payable to you and anyone else receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income or because of your disability pending a new decision by the administrative law judge or final action is taken by the Appeals Council on the administrative law judge's recommended decision. In these court-remanded cases reaching the administrative law judge, we will follow the same rules provided in paragraphs (i) (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of this section.
(j)
Responsibility to pay back continued benefits.
(1) If the final decision of the Commissioner affirms the determination that you are not entitled to benefits, you will be asked to pay back any continued benefits you receive. However, as described in the overpayment recovery and waiver provisions of subpart F of this part, you will have the right to ask that you not be required to pay back the benefits. You will not be asked to pay back any Medicare benefits you received during the appeal.
(2) Anyone else receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income (or because of your disability) will be asked to pay back any continued benefits he or she received if the determination that your physical
or mental impairment(s) has ceased, has never existed, or is no longer disabling, is not changed by the final decision of the Commissioner. However, he or she will have the right to ask that he or she not be required to pay them back, as described in the overpayment recovery and waiver provisions of subpart F of this part. He or she will not be asked to pay back any Medicare benefits he or she received during the appeal.
(3) Waiver of recovery of an overpayment resulting from the continued benefits paid to you or anyone else receiving benefits based on your wages and self-employment income (or because of your disability) may be considered as long as the determination was appealed in good faith. It will be assumed that such appeal is made in good faith and, therefore, any overpaid individual has the right to waiver consideration
unless
such individual fails to cooperate in connection with the appeal, e.g., if the individual fails (without good reason) to give us medical or other evidence we request, or to go for a physical or mental examination when requested by us, in connection with the appeal. In determining whether an individual has good cause for failure to cooperate and, thus, whether an appeal was made in good faith, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) the individual may have which may have caused the individual's failure to cooperate.
[53 FR 29020, Aug. 2, 1988; 53 FR 39015, Oct. 4, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 1383, Jan. 14, 1992; 59 FR 1635, Jan. 12, 1994; 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 65 FR 16814, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.1598
If you become disabled by another impairment(s).
If a new severe impairment(s) begins in or before the month in which your last impairment(s) ends, we will find that your disability is continuing. The new impairment(s) need not be expected to last 12 months or to result in death, but it must be severe enough to keep you from doing substantial gainful activity, or severe enough so that you are still disabled under § 404.1594.
[50 FR 50136, Dec. 6, 1985]
§ 404.1599
Work incentive experiments and rehabilitation demonstration projects in the disability program.
(a)
Authority and purpose.
Section 505(a) of the Social Security Disability Amendments of 1980, Pub. L. 96-265, directs the Commissioner to develop and conduct experiments and demonstration projects designed to provide more cost-effective ways of encouraging disabled beneficiaries to return to work and leave benefit rolls. These experiments and demonstration projects will test the advantages and disadvantages of altering certain limitations and conditions that apply to title II disabled beneficiaries. The objective of all work incentive experiments or rehabilitation demonstrations is to determine whether the alternative requirements will save Trust Fund monies or otherwise improve the administration of the disability program established under title II of the Act.
(b)
Altering benefit requirements, limitations or conditions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Commissioner may waive compliance with the entitlement and payment requirements for disabled beneficiaries to carry our experiments and demonstration projects in the title II disability program. The projects involve altering certain limitations and conditions that currently apply to applicants and beneficiaries to test their effect on the program.
(c)
Applicability and scope
—(1)
Participants and nonparticipants.
If you are selected to participate in an experiment or demonstration project, we may temporarily set aside one or more of the current benefit entitlement or payment requirements, limitations or conditions and apply alternative provisions to you. We may also modify current methods of administering the Act as part of a project and apply alternative procedures or policies to you. The alternative provisions or methods of administration used in the projects will not disadvantage you in contrast to current provisions, procedures or policies. If you are not selected to participate in the experiments or demonstration projects (or if you are placed in a control group which is not subject to alternative requirements and methods) we will continue to apply
to you the current benefit entitlement and payment requirements, limitations and conditions and methods of administration in the title II disability program.
(2)
Alternative provisions or methods of administration.
The alternative provisions or methods of administration that apply to you in an experiment or demonstration project may include (but are not limited to) one or more of the following:
(i) Reducing your benefits (instead of not paying) on the basis of the amount of your earnings in excess of the SGA amount;
(ii) Extending your benefit eligibility period that follows 9 months of trial work, perhaps coupled with benefit reductions related to your earnings;
(iii) Extending your Medicare benefits if you are severely impaired and return to work even though you may not be entitled to monthly cash benefits;
(iv) Altering the 24-month waiting period for Medicare entitlement; and
(v) Stimulating new forms of rehabilitation.
(d)
Selection of participants.
We will select a probability sample of participants for the work incentive experiments and demonstration projects from newly awarded beneficiaries who meet certain pre-selection criteria (for example, individuals who are likely to be able to do substantial work despite continuing severe impairments). These criteria are designed to provide larger subsamples of beneficiaries who are not likely either to recover medically or die. Participants may also be selected from persons who have been receiving DI benefits for 6 months or more at the time of selection.
(e)
Duration of experiments and demonstration projects.
A notice describing each experiment or demonstration project will be published in the
Federal Register
before each experiment or project is placed in operation. The work incentive experiments and rehabilitation demonstrations will be activated in 1982. A final report on the results of the experiments and projects is to be completed and transmitted to Congress by June 9, 1993. However, the authority for the experiments and demonstration projects will not terminate at that time. Some of the alternative provisions or methods of administration may continue to apply to participants in an experiment or demonstration project beyond that date in order to assure the validity of the research. Each experiment and demonstration project will have a termination date (up to 10 years from the start of the experiment or demonstration project).
[48 FR 7575, Feb. 23, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 37605, Oct. 8, 1987; 55 FR 51687, Dec. 17, 1990; 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997]
Pt. 404, Subpt. P, App. 1

# Appendix 1 to Subpart P of Part 404—Listing of Impairments
The body system listings in parts A and B of the Listing of Impairments will no longer be effective on the following dates unless extended by the Commissioner or revised and promulgated again.
1. Low Birth Weight and Failure to Thrive (100.00): August 14, 2026.
2. Musculoskeletal Disorders (1.00 and 101.00): April 2, 2026.
3. Special Senses and Speech (2.00 and 102.00): June 5, 2026.
4. Respiratory Disorders (3.00 and 103.00): December 12, 2025.
5. Cardiovascular System (4.00 and 104.00): February 6, 2026.
6. Digestive Disorders (5.00 and 105.00): October 6, 2028.
7. Genitourinary Disorders (6.00 and 106.00): December 12, 2025.
8. Hematological Disorders (7.00 and 107.00): June 5, 2026.
9. Skin Disorders (8.00 and 108.00): October 6, 2028.
10. Endocrine Disorders (9.00 and 109.00): August 14, 2026.
11. Congenital Disorders That Affect Multiple Body Systems (10.00 and 110.00): June 5, 2026.
12. Neurological Disorders (11.00 and 111.00): September 29, 2025.
13. Mental Disorders (12.00 and 112.00): December 12, 2025.
14. Cancer (Malignant Neoplastic Diseases) (13.00 and 113.00): August 14, 2026.
15. Immune System Disorders (14.00 and 114.00): February 6, 2026.

# Part A
Criteria applicable to individuals age 18 and over and to children under age 18 where criteria are appropriate.
Sec.
1.00 Musculoskeletal Disorders
2.00 Special Senses and Speech.
3.00 Respiratory Disorders.
4.00 Cardiovascular System.
5.00 Digestive Disorders
6.00 Genitourinary Disorders.
7.00 Hematological Disorders.
8.00 Skin Disorders.
9.00 Endocrine Disorders.
10.00 Congenital Disorders That Affect Multiple Body Systems
11.00 Neurological Disorders.
12.00 Mental Disorders.
13.00 Cancer (Malignant Neoplastic Diseases).
14.00 Immune System Disorders.

# 1.00 Musculoskeletal Disorders
A.
Which musculoskeletal disorders do we evaluate under these listings?
1. We evaluate disorders of the skeletal spine (vertebral column) or of the upper or lower extremities that affect musculoskeletal functioning under these listings. We use the term “skeletal” when we are referring to the structure of the bony skeleton. The
skeletal spine
refers to the bony structures, ligaments, and discs making up the spine. We refer to the skeletal spine in some musculoskeletal listings to differentiate it from the
neurological spin
e (see 1.00B1). Musculoskeletal disorders may be congenital or acquired, and may include deformities, amputations, or other abnormalities. These disorders may involve the bones or major joints; or the tendons, ligaments, muscles, or other soft tissues.
2. We evaluate soft tissue injuries (including burns) or abnormalities that are under continuing surgical management (see 1.00O1). The injuries or abnormalities may affect any part of the body, including the face and skull.
3. We evaluate curvatures of the skeletal spine that affect musculoskeletal functioning under 1.15. If a curvature of the skeletal spine is under continuing surgical management (see 1.00O1), we will evaluate it under 1.21 using our rules for determining medical equivalence. See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter.
B.
Which related disorders do we evaluate under other listings?
1. We evaluate a disorder or injury of the skeletal spine that results in damage to, and neurological dysfunction of, the spinal cord and its associated nerves (for example, paraplegia or quadriplegia) under the listings in 11.00.
2. We evaluate inflammatory arthritis (for example, rheumatoid arthritis) under the listings in 14.00.
3. We evaluate curvatures of the skeletal spine that interfere with your ability to breathe under the listings in 3.00, impair myocardial function under the listings in 4.00, or result in social withdrawal or depression under the listings in 12.00.
4. We evaluate non-healing or pathological fractures due to cancer, whether it is a primary site or metastases, under the listings in 13.00.
5. We evaluate the leg pain associated with peripheral vascular claudication and foot ulceration associated with peripheral arterial disease under the listings in 4.00.
6. We evaluate burns that do not require continuing surgical management under the listings in 8.00.
C.
What evidence do we need to evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder?
1.
General.
We need objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source to establish that you have a medically determinable musculoskeletal disorder. We also need evidence from both medical and nonmedical sources, who can describe how you function, to assess the severity and duration of your musculoskeletal disorder. We will determine the extent and kinds of evidence we need from medical and nonmedical sources based on the individual facts about your disorder. For our basic rules on evidence, see §§ 404.1512, 404.1513, 404.1520b, 416.912, 416.913, and 416.920b of this chapter. For our rules on evidence about your symptoms, see §§ 404.1529 and 416.929 of this chapter.
2.
Physical examination report(s).
In the report(s) of your physical examination, we require a medical source's detailed description of the orthopedic, neurologic, or other objective clinical findings appropriate to your specific musculoskeletal disorder from his or her direct observations during your physical examination. We will not accept a report of your statements about your symptoms and limitations in place of the medical source's report of objective clinical findings. We will not use findings on imaging or other diagnostic tests (see 1.00C3) as a substitute for findings on physical examination.
a. When the medical source reports that a clinical test sign(s) is positive, unless we have evidence to the contrary, we will assume that he or she performed the test properly and accept the medical source's interpretation of the test. For example, we will assume a straight-leg raising test was conducted properly (that is, in sitting and supine positions), even if the medical source does not specify the positions in which the test was performed.
b. If you use an assistive device (see 1.00C6), the report must support the medical need for the device.
c. If your musculoskeletal disorder causes a reduction in muscle strength, the report must document measurement of the strength of the muscle(s) in question. The measurement should be based on a muscle strength grading system that is considered medically acceptable based on your age and impairments. For example, a grading system of 0 to 5, with 0 indicating complete loss of strength and 5 indicating maximum strength or equivalent medically acceptable scale (see Table 1). Reduction in muscle strength is demonstrated by evidence that your muscle strength is less than active range of motion
(ROM) against gravity with maximum resistance. If the reduction in muscle strength involves one or both of your hands, the report must also document measurements of grip and pinch strength.
Table 1—Grading System of Muscle Function
Grade
Function of the muscle
0—None
No visible or palpable contraction.
1—Trace
Visible or palpable contraction with no motion.
2—Poor
Active ROM with gravity eliminated.
3—Fair
Active ROM against gravity only, without resistance.
4—Good
Active ROM against gravity, moderate resistance.
5—Normal
Active ROM against gravity, maximum resistance.
3.
Imaging and other diagnostic tests.
a.
Imaging
refers to medical imaging techniques, such as x-ray, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and radionuclide scanning. For the purpose of these listings, the imaging must be consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice as the proper technique to support the evaluation of the disorder.
b. Findings on imaging must have lasted, or be expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
c. Imaging and other diagnostic tests can provide evidence of physical abnormalities; however, these abnormalities may correlate poorly with your symptoms, including pain, or with your musculoskeletal functioning. Accordingly, we will not use findings on imaging or other diagnostic tests as a substitute for findings on physical examination about your ability to function, nor can we infer severity or functional limitations based solely on such tests.
d. For our rules on purchasing imaging and other diagnostic tests, see §§ 404.1519k, 404.1519m, 416.919k, and 416.919m of this chapter.
4.
Operative reports.
If you have had a surgical procedure, we need a copy of the operative report, including details of the findings at surgery and information about any medical complications that may have occurred. If we do not have the operative report, we need confirmatory evidence of the surgical procedure from a medical source (for example, detailed follow-up reports or notations in the medical records concerning the surgical procedure in your medical history).
5.
Effects of treatment.
a.
General.
Treatments for musculoskeletal disorders may have beneficial or adverse effects, and responses to treatment vary from person to person. We will evaluate all of the effects of treatment (including surgical treatment, medications, and therapy) on the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of your musculoskeletal disorder, and on your musculoskeletal functioning.
b.
Response to treatment.
To evaluate your musculoskeletal functioning in response to treatment, we need the following: A description, including the frequency of the administration, of your medications; the type and frequency of therapy you receive; and a description of your response to treatment and any complications you experience related to your musculoskeletal disorder. The effects of treatment may be temporary or long-term. We need information over a sufficient period to determine the effects of treatment on your current musculoskeletal functioning and permit reasonable projections about your future functioning. We will determine the amount of time that constitutes a sufficient period in consultation with a medical consultant on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, we will need additional evidence to make an assessment about your response to treatment. Your musculoskeletal disorder may meet or medically equal one of these listings regardless of whether you were prescribed opioid medication, or whether you were prescribed opioid medication and did not follow this prescribed treatment.
6.
Assistive devices.
a.
General.
An assistive device, for the purposes of these listings, is any device that you use to improve your stability, dexterity, or mobility. An assistive device can be worn (see 1.00C6b and 1.00C6c), hand-held (see 1.00C6d), or used in a seated position (see 1.00C6e). When we use the phrase “documented medical need,” we mean that there is evidence from a medical source that supports your medical need for an assistive device (see 1.00C2b) for a continuous period of at least 12 months (see 1.00C6a). This evidence must describe any limitation(s) in your upper or lower extremity functioning and the circumstances for which you need to use the assistive device. We do not require that you have a specific prescription for the assistive device.
b.
Prosthesis(es).
A prosthesis is a wearable device, such as an artificial limb, that takes the place of an absent body part. If you have a prosthesis(es), we need evidence from a medical source documenting your ability to walk, or perform fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4), with the prosthesis(es) in place. When amputation(s) involves one or both
lower extremities, it is not necessary for the medical source to evaluate your ability to walk without the prosthesis(es) in place. If you cannot use your prosthesis(es) due to complications affecting your residual limb(s), we need evidence from a medical source documenting the condition of your residual limb(s) and the medical basis for your inability to use the device(s).
c.
Orthosis(es).
An orthosis is a wearable device, such as a brace, that prevents or corrects a dysfunction or deformity by aligning or supporting the affected body part. If you have an orthosis(es), we need evidence from a medical source documenting your ability to walk, or perform fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4), with the orthosis(es) in place. If you cannot use your orthosis(es), we need evidence from a medical source documenting the medical basis for your inability to use the device(s).
d.
Hand-held assistive devices.
Hand-held assistive devices include walkers, canes, or crutches, which you hold onto with your hand(s) to support or aid you in walking. When you use a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (such as a cane) with one upper extremity to walk and you cannot use your other upper extremity for fine or gross movements (see 1.00E4), the need for the assistive device limits the use of both upper extremities. If you use a hand-held assistive device, we need evidence from a medical source describing how you walk with the device.
e.
Wheeled and seated mobility devices.
Wheeled and seated mobility devices are assistive devices that you use in a seated position, such as manual wheelchairs, motorized wheelchairs, rollators, and power operated vehicles. If you use a wheeled and seated mobility device, we need evidence from a medical source describing the type of wheeled and seated mobility device that you use and how you use the assistive device including any customizations or modifications to the assistive device itself or for your use of the assistive device. For example, if you use a wheelchair that typically requires the use of both hands but has been customized for your use with one hand, then we will evaluate your use of the assistive device using the criteria in 1.00E3b and not 1.00E3a.
(i)
Wheeled and seated mobility devices involving the use of both hands.
Some wheeled and seated mobility devices involve the use of both hands to use the assistive device (for example, most manual wheelchairs). If you use a wheeled and seated mobility device that involves the use of both hands, then the need for the assistive device limits the use of both upper extremities.
(ii)
Wheeled and seated devices involving the use of one hand.
Some wheeled and seated mobility devices involve the use of one hand to use the assistive device (for example, most motorized wheelchairs). If you use a wheeled and seated mobility device that involves the use of one upper extremity and you cannot use your other upper extremity for fine or gross movements (see 1.00E4), then the need for the assistive device limits the use of both upper extremities.
7.
Longitudinal evidence.
a. The term
pandemic period
as used in 1.00C7c means the period beginning on April 2, 2021, and ending on May 11, 2025. The term
post-pandemic evaluation period
as used in 1.00C7c means the period beginning on May 12, 2025, and ending on May 11, 2029.
b. We generally need a longitudinal medical record to assess the severity and duration of your musculoskeletal disorder because the severity of symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings related to most musculoskeletal disorders may improve over time or respond to treatment. Evidence over an extended period will show whether your musculoskeletal functioning is improving, worsening, or unchanging.
c. For 1.15, 1.16, 1.17, 1.18, 1.20C, 1.20D, 1.22, and 1.23, all of the required criteria must be present simultaneously, or within a close proximity of time, to satisfy the level of severity needed to meet the listing. The phrase “within a close proximity of time” means that all of the relevant criteria must appear in the medical record within a consecutive 4-month period, except for claims determined or decided during the pandemic period or post-pandemic evaluation period. For claims determined or decided during the pandemic period or post-pandemic evaluation period, all of the relevant criteria must appear in the medical record within a consecutive 12-month period. When the criterion is imaging, we mean that we could reasonably expect the findings on imaging to have been present at the date of impairment or date of onset. For listings that use the word “and” to link the elements of the required criteria, the medical record must establish the simultaneous presence, or presence within a close proximity of time, of all the required medical criteria. Once this level of severity is established, the medical record must also show that this level of severity has continued, or is expected to continue, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
8.
Surgical treatment and physical therapy.
For some musculoskeletal disorders, a medical source may recommend surgery or physical therapy (PT). If you have not yet had the recommended surgery or PT, we will not assume that these interventions will resolve your disorder or improve your functioning. We will assess each case on an individual basis. Depending on your response to treatment, or your medical sources' treatment plans, we may defer our findings regarding the effect of surgery or PT, until a sufficient period has passed to permit proper consideration or judgment about your future functioning. When necessary, we will follow the rules on following prescribed treatment in
§§ 404.1530 and 416.930 of this chapter, including consideration of your reasons for failure to follow prescribed treatment.
D.
How do we consider symptoms, including pain, under these listings?
1. Musculoskeletal disorders may cause pain or other symptoms; however, your statements about your pain or other symptoms will not alone establish that you are disabled. We will not substitute an alleged or a reported increase in the intensity of a symptom, such as pain, no matter how severe, for a medical sign or diagnostic finding present in the listing criteria. Pain is included as just one consideration in 1.15A, 1.16A, and 1.18A, but it is not required to satisfy the criteria in 1.15, 1.16, and 1.18.
2. To consider your symptom(s), we require objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source showing the existence of a medically determinable musculoskeletal impairment that we could reasonably expect to produce the symptom(s). See §§ 404.1529 and 416.929 of this chapter for how we evaluate symptoms, including pain, related to your musculoskeletal disorder.
E.
How do we use the functional criteria to evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder under these listings?
1.
General.
The functional criteria are based on impairment-related physical limitations in your ability to use both upper extremities, one or both lower extremities, or a combination of one upper and one lower extremity. The required impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning must have lasted, or be expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months. We do not use the functional criteria in 1.20A, 1.20B, or 1.21.
2.
Work environment.
We use the relevant evidence that we have to evaluate your musculoskeletal functioning with respect to the work environment rather than the home environment. For example, an ability to walk independently at home without an assistive device does not, in and of itself, indicate an ability to walk without an assistive device in a work environment.
3.
Functional criteria.
A musculoskeletal disorder satisfies the functional criteria of a listing when the medical documentation shows the presence of at least one of the impairment-related limitations cited in the listing. The required impairment-related limitation of musculoskeletal functioning must be medically documented by one of the following:
a. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i));
b. An inability to use one upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4), and a documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of your other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii));
c. An inability to use both upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4).
4.
Fine and gross movements. Fine
movements, for the purposes of these listings, involve use of your wrists, hands, and fingers; such movements include picking, pinching, manipulating, and fingering.
Gross
movements involve use of your shoulders, upper arms, forearms, and hands; such movements include handling, gripping, grasping, holding, turning, and reaching. Gross movements also include exertional abilities such as lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling. Examples of performing fine and gross movements include, but are not limited to, taking care of personal hygiene, sorting and handling papers or files, and placing files in a file cabinet at or above waist level.
F.
What do we consider when we evaluate disorders of the skeletal spine resulting in compromise of a nerve root(s) (1.15)?
1.
General.
We consider musculoskeletal disorders such as herniated nucleus pulposus, spinal osteoarthritis (spondylosis), vertebral slippage (spondylolisthesis), degenerative disc disease, facet arthritis, and vertebral fracture or dislocation. Spinal disorders may cause cervical or lumbar spine dysfunction when abnormalities of the skeletal spine compromise nerve roots of the cervical spine, a nerve root of the lumbar spine, or a nerve root of both cervical and lumbar spines. We consider spinal nerve disorders that originate in the nervous system (for example, spinal arachnoiditis), under the neurological disorders body system, 11.00.
2.
Compromise of a nerve root(s).
Compromise of a nerve root, sometimes referred to as “nerve root impingement,” is a phrase used when a physical object, such as a tumor, herniated disc, foreign body, or arthritic spur, is pushing on the nerve root as seen on imaging or during surgery. It can occur when a musculoskeletal disorder produces irritation, inflammation, or compression of the nerve root(s) as it exits the skeletal spine between the vertebrae. Related symptoms must be associated with, or follow the path of, the affected nerve root(s).
a.
Compromise of unilateral nerve root of the cervical spine.
Compromise of a nerve root as it exits the cervical spine between the vertebrae may affect the functioning of the associated upper extremity. The physical examination reproduces the related symptoms based on radicular signs and clinical tests appropriate to the specific cervical nerve root (for example, a positive Spurling test).
b.
Compromise of bilateral nerve roots of the cervical spine.
Although uncommon, if compromise of a nerve root occurs on both sides of the cervical spinal column, functioning of both upper extremities may be limited.
c.
Compromise of a nerve root(s) of the lumbar spine.
Compromise of a nerve root as it exits the lumbar spine between the vertebrae may limit the functioning of the associated lower extremity. The physical examination reproduces the related symptoms based on radicular signs and clinical tests. When a nerve root of the lumbar spine is compromised, we require a positive straight-leg raising test (also known as a Lasègue test) in both supine and sitting positions appropriate to the specific lumbar nerve root that is compromised.
G.
What do we consider when we evaluate lumbar spinal stenosis resulting in compromise of the cauda equina (1.16)?
1.
General.
We consider how pain, sensory changes, and muscle weakness caused by compromise of the cauda equina due to lumbar spinal stenosis affect your functioning. The cauda equina is a bundle of nerve roots that descends from the lower part of the spinal cord. Lumbar spinal stenosis can compress the nerves of the cauda equina, causing sensory changes and muscle weakness that may affect your ability to stand or walk. Pain related to compromise of the cauda equina is nonradicular because it is not typically associated with a specific nerve root (as is radicular pain in the cervical or lumbar spine).
2.
Compromise of the cauda equina
due to lumbar spinal stenosis can affect your ability to walk or stand because of neurogenic claudication (also known as pseudoclaudication), a condition usually causing nonradicular pain that starts in the low back and radiates bilaterally (or less commonly, unilaterally) into the buttocks and lower extremities (or extremity). Extension of the lumbar spine, which occurs when you walk or stand, may provoke the pain of neurogenic claudication. The pain may be relieved by forward flexion of the lumbar spine or by sitting. In contrast, the leg pain associated with peripheral vascular claudication results from inadequate arterial blood flow to a lower extremity. It occurs repeatedly and consistently when a person walks a certain distance and is relieved when the person rests.
H.
What do we consider when we evaluate reconstructive surgery or surgical arthrodesis of a major weight-bearing joint (1.17)?
1.
General.
We consider reconstructive surgery or surgical arthrodesis when an acceptable medical source(s) documents the surgical procedure(s) and associated medical treatments to restore function of, or eliminate motion in, the affected major weight-bearing joint. Reconstructive surgery may be done in a single procedure or a series of procedures directed toward the salvage or restoration of functional use of the affected joint.
2.
Major weight-bearing joints
are the hip, knee, and ankle-foot. The ankle and foot are considered together as one major joint.
3.
Surgical arthrodesis
is the artificial fusion of the bones that form a joint, essentially eliminating the joint.
I.
What do we consider when we evaluate abnormality of a major joint(s) in any extremity (1.18)?
1.
General.
We consider musculoskeletal disorders that produce anatomical abnormalities of major joints of the extremities, which result in functional abnormalities in the upper or lower extremities (for example, osteoarthritis, chronic infections of bones and joints, and surgical arthrodesis of a joint). Abnormalities of the joints include ligamentous laxity or rupture, soft tissue contracture, or tendon rupture, and can cause muscle weakness of the affected joint(s).
a. An
anatomical
abnormality is one that is readily observable by a medical source during a physical examination (for example, subluxation or contracture), or is present on imaging (for example, joint space narrowing, bony destruction, ankylosis, or deformity).
b. A
functional
abnormality is abnormal motion or instability of the affected joint(s), including limitation of motion, excessive motion (hypermobility), movement outside the normal plane of motion for the joint (for example, lateral deviation), or fixation of the affected joint(s).
2.
Major joint of an upper extremity
refers to the shoulder, elbow, and wrist-hand. We consider the wrist and hand together as one major joint.
3.
Major joint of a lower extremity
refers to the hip, knee, and ankle-foot. We consider the ankle and hindfoot together as one major joint.
J.
What do we consider when we evaluate pathologic fractures due to any cause (1.19)?
We consider pathologic fractures of the bones in the skeletal spine, extremities, or other parts of the skeletal system. Pathologic fractures result from disorders that weaken the bones, making them vulnerable to breakage. Pathologic fractures may occur with osteoporosis, osteogenesis imperfecta or any other skeletal dysplasias, side effects of medications, and disorders of the endocrine or other body systems. Under 1.19, the fractures must have occurred on separate, distinct occasions, rather than multiple fractures occurring at the same time, but the fractures may affect the same bone(s) multiple times. There is no required time that must elapse between the fractures, but all three must occur within a 12-month period; for example, separate incidents may occur
within hours or days of each other. We evaluate non-healing or complex traumatic fractures without accompanying pathology under 1.22 or 1.23.
K.
What do we consider when we evaluate amputation due to any cause (1.20)?
1.
General.
We consider amputation (the full or partial loss or absence of any extremity) due to any cause including trauma, congenital abnormality or absence, surgery for treatment of conditions such as cancer or infection, or complications of peripheral vascular disease or diabetes mellitus.
2.
Amputation of both upper extremities (1.20A).
Under 1.20A, we consider upper extremity amputations that occur at any level at or above the wrists (carpal joints), up to and including disarticulation of the shoulder (glenohumeral) joint. If you have had both upper extremities amputated at any level at or above the wrists up to and including the shoulder, your impairment satisfies the duration requirement in §§ 404.1509 and 416.909 of this chapter. For amputations below the wrist, we will follow the rules described in 1.00S. We do not evaluate amputations below the wrist under 1.20A because the resulting limitation of function of the thumb(s), finger(s), or hand(s) will vary, depending on the extent of loss and corresponding effect on fine and gross movements.
3.
Hemipelvectomy or hip disarticulation (1.20B).
Under 1.20B, we consider hemipelvectomy, which involves amputation of an entire lower extremity through the sacroiliac joint, and hip disarticulation, which involves amputation of an entire lower extremity through the hip joint capsule and closure of the remaining musculature over the exposed acetabular bone. If you have had a hemipelvectomy or hip disarticulation, your impairment satisfies the duration requirement in §§ 404.1509 and 416.909 of this chapter.
4.
Amputation of one upper extremity and one lower extremity (1.20C).
Under 1.20C, we consider the amputation of one upper extremity at any level at or above the wrist and one lower extremity at or above the ankle. If you have a documented medical need for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (such as a cane) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (such as a motorized wheelchair), then you must use your remaining upper extremity to hold the device, making the extremity unavailable to perform other fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4).
5.
Amputation of one lower extremity or both lower extremities with complications of the residual limb(s) (1.20D).
Under 1.20D, we consider the amputation of one lower extremity or both lower extremities at or above the ankle. We also consider the condition of your residual limb(s), whether you can wear a prosthesis(es) (see 1.00C6b), and whether you have a documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a hand-held assistive device(s) (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device (see 1.00C6e). If you have a non-healing residual limb(s) and are receiving ongoing surgical treatment expected to re-establish or improve function, and that ongoing surgical treatment has not ended, or is not expected to end, within at least 12 months of the initiation of the surgical management (see 1.00L), we evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder under 1.21.
L.
What do we consider when we evaluate soft tissue injuries or abnormalities under continuing surgical management (1.21)?
1.
General.
a. We consider any soft tissue injury or abnormality involving the soft tissues of the body, whether congenital or acquired, when an acceptable medical source(s) documents the need for ongoing surgical procedures and associated medical treatments to restore function of the affected body part(s) (see 1.00O1). Surgical management includes the surgery(ies) itself, as well as various post-surgical procedures, surgical complications, infections or other medical complications, related illnesses, or related treatments that delay your attainment of maximum benefit from therapy (see 1.00O2).
b. Surgical procedures and associated treatments typically take place over extended periods, which may render you unable to perform work-related activity on a sustained basis. To document such inability, we must have evidence from an acceptable medical source(s) confirming that the surgical management has continued, or is expected to continue, for at least 12 months from the date of the first surgical intervention. These procedures and treatments must be directed toward saving, reconstructing, or replacing the affected part of the body to re-establish or improve its function, and not for cosmetic appearances alone.
c. Examples include malformations, third- and fourth-degree burns, crush injuries, craniofacial injuries, avulsive injuries, and amputations with complications of the residual limb(s).
d. We evaluate skeletal spine abnormalities or injuries under 1.15 or 1.16, as appropriate. We evaluate abnormalities or injuries of bones in the lower extremities under 1.17, 1.18, or 1.22. We evaluate abnormalities or injuries of bones in the upper extremities under 1.18 or 1.23.
2.
Documentation.
In addition to the objective medical evidence we need to establish your soft tissue injury or abnormality, we also need all of the following medically documented evidence about your continuing surgical management:
a. Operative reports and related laboratory findings;
b. Records of post-surgical procedures;
c. Records of any surgical or medical complications (for example, related infections or systemic illnesses);
d. Records of any prolonged post-operative recovery periods and related treatments (for example, surgeries and treatments for burns);
e. An acceptable medical source's plans for additional surgeries; and
f. Records detailing any other factors that have delayed, or that an acceptable medical source expects to delay, the saving, restoring, or replacing of the involved part for a continuous period of at least 12 months following the initiation of the surgical management.
3.
Burns.
Third- and fourth-degree burns damage or destroy nerve tissue, reducing or preventing transmission of signals through those nerves. Such burns frequently require multiple surgical procedures and related therapies to re-establish or improve function, which we evaluate under 1.21. When burns are no longer
under continuing surgical management
(see 1.00O1), we evaluate the residual impairment(s). When the residual impairment(s) affects the musculoskeletal system, as often occurs in third- and fourth-degree burns, it can result in permanent musculoskeletal tissue loss, joint contractures, or loss of extremities. We will evaluate such impairments under the relevant musculoskeletal disorders listing, for example, 1.18 or 1.20. When the residual impairment(s) involves another body system, we will evaluate the impairment(s) under the listings in the relevant body system(s).
4.
Craniofacial injuries.
Surgeons may treat craniofacial injuries with multiple surgical procedures. These injuries may affect vision, hearing, speech, and the initiation of the digestive process, including mastication. When the craniofacial injury-related residual impairment(s) involves another body system(s), we will evaluate the impairment(s) under the listings in the relevant body system(s).
M.
What do we consider when we evaluate non-healing or complex fractures of the femur, tibia, pelvis, or one or more of the talocrural bones (1.22)?
1.
Non-healing fracture.
A non-healing (nonunion) fracture is a fracture that has failed to unite completely. Nonunion is usually established when a minimum of 9 months has elapsed since the injury and the fracture site has shown no, or minimal, progressive signs of healing for a minimum of 3 months.
2.
Complex fracture.
A complex fracture is a fracture with one or more of the following:
a. Comminuted (broken into many pieces) bone fragments;
b. Multiple fractures in a single bone;
c. Bone loss due to severe trauma;
d. Damage to the surrounding soft tissue;
e. Severe cartilage damage to the associated joint; or
f. Dislocation of the associated joint.
3. When a complex fracture involves soft tissue damage, the treatment may involve continuing surgical management to restore or improve functioning. In such cases, we may evaluate the fracture(s) under 1.21.
N.
What do we consider when we evaluate non-healing or complex fracture of an upper extremity (1.23)?
1.
Non-healing fracture.
A non-healing (nonunion) fracture is a fracture that has failed to unite completely. Nonunion is usually established when a minimum of 9 months has elapsed since the injury and the fracture site has shown no, or minimal, progressive signs of healing for a minimum of 3 months.
2.
Complex fracture.
A complex fracture is a fracture with one or more of the following:
a. Comminuted (broken into many pieces) bone fragments;
b. Multiple fractures in a single bone;
c. Bone loss due to severe trauma;
d. Damage to the surrounding soft tissue;
e. Severe cartilage damage to the associated joint; or
f. Dislocation of the associated joint.
3. When a complex fracture involves soft tissue damage, the treatment may involve continuing surgical management to restore or improve functioning. In such cases, we may evaluate the fracture(s) under 1.21.
O.
How will we determine whether your soft tissue injury or abnormality or your upper extremity fracture is no longer under continuing surgical management or you have received maximum benefit from therapy?
1. We will determine that your soft tissue injury or abnormality, or your upper extremity fracture, is no longer
under continuing surgical management,
as used in 1.21 and 1.23, when the last surgical procedure or medical treatment directed toward the re-establishment or improvement of function of the involved part has occurred.
2. We will determine that you have received
maximum benefit from therapy,
as used in 1.21, if there are no significant changes in physical findings or on appropriate imaging for any 6-month period after the last surgical procedure or medical treatment. We may also determine that you have received maximum benefit from therapy if your medical source(s) indicates that further improvement is not expected after the last surgical procedure or medical treatment.
3. When you have received maximum benefit from therapy, we will evaluate any impairment-related residual symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings (including those on imaging), any complications associated with your surgical procedures or medical treatments, and any residual limitations in your functioning (see 1.00S).
P.
How do we evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder if there is no record of ongoing treatment?
1. Despite having a musculoskeletal disorder, you may not have received ongoing
treatment, may have just begun treatment, may not have access to prescribed medical treatment, or may not have an ongoing relationship with the medical community. In any of these situations, you will not have a longitudinal medical record for us to review when we evaluate your disorder and we may ask you to attend a consultative examination to determine the severity and potential duration of your disorder. See §§ 404.1519a(b) and 416.919a(b) of this chapter.
2. In some instances, we may be able to assess the severity and duration of your musculoskeletal disorder based on your medical record and current evidence alone. If the information in your case record is not sufficient to show that you have a musculoskeletal disorder that meets the criteria of one of the musculoskeletal disorders listings, we will follow the rules described in 1.00S.
Q.
How do we consider the effects of obesity when we evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder?
Obesity is a medically determinable impairment that is often associated with musculoskeletal disorders. Obesity increases stress on weight-bearing joints and may contribute to limitation of the range of motion of the skeletal spine and extremities. The combined effects of obesity with a musculoskeletal disorder can be greater than the effects of each of the impairments considered separately. We consider the additional and cumulative effects of your obesity when we determine whether you have a severe musculoskeletal disorder, a listing-level musculoskeletal disorder, a combination of impairments that medically equals the severity of a listed impairment, and when we assess your residual functional capacity.
R.
How do we evaluate your musculoskeletal disorder if there is evidence establishing a substance use disorder?
If we find that you are disabled and there is medical evidence in your case record establishing that you have a substance use disorder, we will determine whether your substance use disorder is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability. See §§ 404.1535 and 416.935 of this chapter.
S.
How do we evaluate musculoskeletal disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of musculoskeletal disorders that we consider severe enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that meets the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. We proceed to the fourth step and, if necessary, the fifth step of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter.
3. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 1.01 Category of Impairments, Musculoskeletal Disorders
1.15
Disorders of the skeletal spine resulting in compromise of a nerve root(s)
(see 1.00F), documented by A, B, C,
and
D:
A. Neuro-anatomic (radicular) distribution of one or more of the following
symptoms
consistent with compromise of the affected nerve root(s):
1. Pain; or
2. Paresthesia; or
3. Muscle fatigue.
AND
B. Radicular distribution of neurological
signs
present during physical examination (see 1.00C2) or on a diagnostic test (see 1.00C3) and evidenced by 1, 2, and either 3 or 4:
1. Muscle weakness; and
2. Sign(s) of nerve root irritation, tension, or compression, consistent with compromise of the affected nerve root (see 1.00F2); and
3. Sensory changes evidenced by:
a. Decreased sensation; or
b. Sensory nerve deficit (abnormal sensory nerve latency) on electrodiagnostic testing;
or
4. Decreased deep tendon reflexes.
AND
C. Findings on imaging (see 1.00C3) consistent with compromise of a nerve root(s) in the cervical or lumbosacral spine.
AND
D. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4),
and
a documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
3. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used
to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4).
1.16
Lumbar spinal stenosis resulting in compromise of the cauda equina
(see 1.00G), documented by A, B, C,
and
D:
A. Symptom(s) of neurological compromise manifested as:
1. Nonradicular distribution of pain in one or both lower extremities; or
2. Nonradicular distribution of sensory loss in one or both lower extremities; or
3. Neurogenic claudication.
AND
B. Nonradicular neurological signs present during physical examination (see 1.00C2) or on a diagnostic test (see 1.00C3) and evidenced by 1 and either 2 or 3:
1. Muscle weakness.
2. Sensory changes evidenced by:
a. Decreased sensation; or
b. Sensory nerve deficit (abnormal sensory nerve latency) on electrodiagnostic testing; or
c. Areflexia, trophic ulceration, or bladder or bowel incontinence.
3. Decreased deep tendon reflexes in one or both lower extremities.
AND
C. Findings on imaging (see 1.00C3) or in an operative report (see 1.00C4) consistent with compromise of the cauda equina with lumbar spinal stenosis.
AND
D. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4),
and
a documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)).
1.17
Reconstructive surgery or surgical arthrodesis of a major weight-bearing joint
(see 1.00H), documented by A, B,
and
C:
A. History of reconstructive surgery or surgical arthrodesis of a major weight-bearing joint.
AND
B. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
AND
C. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)).
1.18
Abnormality of a major joint(s) in any extremity
(see 1.00I), documented by A, B, C,
and
D:
A. Chronic joint pain or stiffness.
AND
B. Abnormal motion, instability, or immobility of the affected joint(s).
AND
C. Anatomical abnormality of the affected joint(s) noted on:
1. Physical examination (for example, subluxation, contracture, or bony or fibrous ankylosis); or
2. Imaging (for example, joint space narrowing, bony destruction, or ankylosis or arthrodesis of the affected joint).
AND
D. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4),
and
a documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
3. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4).
1.19
Pathologic fractures due to any cause
(see 1.00J), documented by A
and
B:
A. Pathologic fractures occurring on three separate occasions within a 12-month period.
AND
B. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, and medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral
crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
2. An inability to use
one
upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4),
and
a documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) that requires the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
3. An inability to use
both
upper extremities to the extent that neither can be used to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4).
1.20
Amputation due to any cause
(see 1.00K), documented by A, B, C,
or
D:
A. Amputation of both upper extremities, occurring at any level at or above the wrists (carpal joints), up to and including the shoulder (glenohumeral) joint.
OR
B. Hemipelvectomy or hip disarticulation.
OR
C. Amputation of one upper extremity, occurring at any level at or above the wrist (carpal joints), and amputation of one lower extremity, occurring at or above the ankle (talocrural joint),
and
medical documentation of at least
one
of the following:
1. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)); or
2. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a one-handed, hand-held assistive device (see 1.00C6d) requiring the use of the other upper extremity or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of one hand (see 1.00C6e(ii)); or
3. The inability to use the remaining upper extremity to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (1.00E4).
OR
D. Amputation of one or both lower extremities, occurring at or above the ankle (talocrural joint), with complications of the residual limb(s) that have lasted, or are expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months,
and
medical documentation of 1 and 2:
1. The inability to use a prosthesis(es); and
2. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)).
1.21
Soft tissue injury or abnormality under continuing surgical management
(see 1.00L), documented by A, B,
and
C:
A. Evidence confirms continuing surgical management (see 1.00O1) directed toward saving, reconstructing, or replacing the affected part of the body.
AND
B. The surgical management has been, or is expected to be, ongoing for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
AND
C. Maximum benefit from therapy (see 1.00O2) has not yet been achieved.
1.22
Non-healing or complex fracture of the femur, tibia, pelvis, or one or more of the talocrural bones
(see 1.00M), documented by A, B,
and
C:
A. Solid union not evident on imaging (see 1.00C3) and not clinically solid.
AND
B. Impairment-related physical limitation of musculoskeletal functioning that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
AND
C. A documented medical need (see 1.00C6a) for a walker, bilateral canes, or bilateral crutches (see 1.00C6d) or a wheeled and seated mobility device involving the use of both hands (see 1.00C6e(i)).
1.23
Non-healing or complex fracture of an upper extremity
(see 1.00N), documented by A
and
B:
A. Nonunion or complex fracture of the shaft of the humerus, radius, or ulna, under continuing surgical management (see 1.00O1) directed toward restoration of functional use of the extremity.
AND
B. Medical documentation of an inability to independently initiate, sustain, and complete work-related activities involving fine and gross movements (see 1.00E4) that has lasted, or is expected to last, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.

# 2.00 Special Senses and Speech
A.
How do we evaluate visual disorders?
1.
What are visual disorders?
Visual disorders are abnormalities of the eye, the optic nerve, the optic tracts, or the brain that may cause a loss of visual acuity or visual fields. A loss of visual acuity limits your ability to distinguish detail, read, or do fine work. A loss of visual fields limits your ability to perceive visual stimuli in the peripheral extent of vision.
2.
How do we define statutory blindness?
Statutory blindness is blindness as defined in sections 216(i)(1) and 1614(a)(2) of the Social Security Act (Act).
a. The Act defines blindness as central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with the use of a correcting lens. We use your best-corrected central visual acuity for
distance in the better eye when we determine if this definition is met. (For visual acuity testing requirements, see 2.00A5.)
b. The Act also provides that an eye that has a visual field limitation such that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees is considered as having a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less. (For visual field testing requirements, see 2.00A6.)
c. You have statutory blindness only if your visual disorder meets the criteria of 2.02 or 2.03A. You do not have statutory blindness if your visual disorder medically equals the criteria of 2.02 or 2.03A or meets or medically equals the criteria of 2.03B, 2.03C, 2.04A, or 2.04B because your disability is based on criteria other than those in the statutory definition of blindness.
3.
What evidence do we need to establish statutory blindness under title XVI?
To establish that you have statutory blindness under title XVI, we need evidence showing only that your central visual acuity in your better eye or your visual field in your better eye meets the criteria in 2.00A2, provided that those measurements are consistent with the other evidence in your case record. We do not need documentation of the cause of your blindness. Also, there is no duration requirement for statutory blindness under title XVI (see §§ 416.981 and 416.983 of this chapter).
4.
What evidence do we need to evaluate visual disorders, including those that result in statutory blindness under title II?
To evaluate your visual disorder, we usually need a report of an eye examination that includes measurements of your best-corrected central visual acuity (see 2.00A5) or the extent of your visual fields (see 2.00A6), as appropriate. If you have visual acuity or visual field loss, we need documentation of the cause of the loss. A standard eye examination will usually indicate the cause of any visual acuity loss. A standard eye examination can also indicate the cause of some types of visual field deficits. Some disorders, such as cortical visual disorders, may result in abnormalities that do not appear on a standard eye examination. If the standard eye examination does not indicate the cause of your vision loss, we will request the information used to establish the presence of your visual disorder. If your visual disorder does not satisfy the criteria in 2.02, 2.03, or 2.04, we will request a description of how your visual disorder affects your ability to function.
5.
How do we measure your best-corrected central visual acuity?
a.
Visual acuity testing.
When we need to measure your best-corrected central visual acuity (your optimal visual acuity attainable with the use of a corrective lens), we use visual acuity testing for distance that was carried out using Snellen methodology or any other testing methodology that is comparable to Snellen methodology.
(i) Your best-corrected central visual acuity for distance is usually measured by determining what you can see from 20 feet. If your visual acuity is measured for a distance other than 20 feet, we will convert it to a 20-foot measurement. For example, if your visual acuity is measured at 10 feet and is reported as 10/40, we will convert this measurement to 20/80.
(ii) A visual acuity recorded as CF (counts fingers), HM (hand motion only), LP or LPO (light perception or light perception only), or NLP (no light perception) indicates that no optical correction will improve your visual acuity. If your central visual acuity in an eye is recorded as CF, HM, LP or LPO, or NLP, we will determine that your best-corrected central visual acuity is 20/200 or less in that eye.
(iii) We will not use the results of pinhole testing or automated refraction acuity to determine your best-corrected central visual acuity. These tests provide an estimate of potential visual acuity but not an actual measurement of your best-corrected central visual acuity.
b.
Other test charts.
Most test charts that use Snellen methodology do not have lines that measure visual acuity between 20/100 and 20/200. Some test charts, such as the Bailey-Lovie or the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), used mostly in research settings, have such lines. If your visual acuity is measured with one of these charts, and you cannot read any of the letters on the 20/100 line, we will determine that you have statutory blindness based on a visual acuity of 20/200 or less. For example, if your best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in the better eye is 20/160 using an ETDRS chart, we will find that you have statutory blindness. Regardless of the type of test chart used, you do not have statutory blindness if you can read at least one letter on the 20/100 line. For example, if your best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in the better eye is 20/125 + 1 using an ETDRS chart, we will find that you do not have statutory blindness because you are able to read one letter on the 20/100 line.
c.
Testing using a specialized lens.
In some instances, you may have visual acuity testing performed using specialized lens, such as a contact lens. We will use the visual acuity measurements obtained with a specialized lens only if you have demonstrated the ability to use the specialized lens on a sustained basis. We will not use visual acuity measurements obtained with telescopic lenses.
d.
Cycloplegic refraction
is an examination of the eye performed after administering cycloplegic eye drops capable of relaxing the ability of the pupil to become smaller and temporarily paralyzing the focusing muscles. If your case record contains the results of
cycloplegic refraction, we may use the results to determine your best-corrected central visual acuity. We will not purchase cycloplegic refraction.
e.
Visual evoked response (VER) testing
measures your response to visual events and can often detect dysfunction that is undetectable through other types of examinations. If you have an absent response to VER testing in your better eye, we will determine that your best-corrected central visual acuity is 20/200 or less in that eye and that your visual acuity loss satisfies the criterion in 2.02 when these test results are consistent with the other evidence in your case record. If you have a positive response to VER testing in an eye, we will not use that result to determine your best-corrected central visual acuity in that eye.
6.
How do we measure your visual fields?
a.
General.
We generally need visual field testing when you have a visual disorder that could result in visual field loss, such as glaucoma, retinitis pigmentosa, or optic neuropathy, or when you display behaviors that suggest a visual field loss. When we need to measure the extent of your visual field loss, we use visual field testing (also referred to as perimetry) carried out using automated static threshold perimetry performed on an acceptable perimeter. (For perimeter requirements, see 2.00A9.)
b.
Automated static threshold perimetry requirements.
(i) The test must use a white size III Goldmann stimulus and a 31.5 apostilb (asb) white background (or a 10 candela per square meter (cd/m
2
) white background). The stimuli test locations must be no more than 6 degrees apart horizontally or vertically. Measurements must be reported on standard charts and include a description of the size and intensity of the test stimulus.
(ii) We measure the extent of your visual field loss by determining the portion of the visual field in which you can see a white III4e stimulus. The “III” refers to the standard Goldmann test stimulus size III (4 mm
2
), and the “4e” refers to the standard Goldmann intensity filter (0 decibel (dB) attenuation, which allows presentation of the maximum luminance) used to determine the intensity of the stimulus.
(iii) In automated static threshold perimetry, the intensity of the stimulus varies. The intensity of the stimulus is expressed in decibels (dB). A perimeter's maximum stimulus luminance is usually assigned the value 0 dB. We need to determine the dB level that corresponds to a 4e intensity for the particular perimeter being used. We will then use the dB printout to determine which points you see at a 4e intensity level (a “seeing point”). For example:
A.
When the maximum stimulus luminance (0 dB stimulus) on an acceptable perimeter is 10,000 asb, a 10 dB stimulus is equivalent to a 4e stimulus. Any point you see at 10 dB or greater is a seeing point.
B.
When the maximum stimulus luminance (0 dB stimulus) on an acceptable perimeter is 4,000 asb, a 6 dB stimulus is equivalent to a 4e stimulus. Any point you see at 6 dB or greater is a seeing point.
C.
When the maximum stimulus luminance (0 dB stimulus) on an acceptable perimeter is 1,000 asb, a 0 dB stimulus is equivalent to a 4e stimulus. Any point you see at 0 dB or greater is a seeing point.
c.
Evaluation under 2.03A.
To determine statutory blindness based on visual field loss in your better eye (2.03A), we need the results of a visual field test that measures the central 24 to 30 degrees of your visual field; that is, the area measuring 24 to 30 degrees from the point of fixation. Acceptable tests include the Humphrey Field Analyzer (HFA) 30-2, HFA 24-2, and Octopus 32.
d.
Evaluation under 2.03B.
To determine whether your visual field loss meets listing 2.03B, we use the mean deviation or defect (MD) from acceptable automated static threshold perimetry that measures the central 30 degrees of the visual field. MD is the average sensitivity deviation from normal values for all measured visual field locations. When using results from HFA tests, which report the MD as a negative number, we use the absolute value of the MD to determine whether your visual field loss meets listing 2.03B. We cannot use tests that do not measure the central 30 degrees of the visual field, such as the HFA 24-2, to determine if your impairment meets or medically equals 2.03B.
e.
Other types of perimetry.
If the evidence in your case contains visual field measurements obtained using manual or automated kinetic perimetry, such as Goldmann perimetry or the HFA “SSA Test Kinetic,” we can generally use these results if the kinetic test was performed using a white III4e stimulus projected on a white 31.5 asb (10 cd/m
2
) background. Automated kinetic perimetry, such as the HFA “SSA Test Kinetic,” does not detect limitations in the central visual field because testing along a meridian stops when you see the stimulus. If your visual disorder has progressed to the point at which it is likely to result in a significant limitation in the central visual field, such as a scotoma (see 2.00A6h), we will not use
automated
kinetic perimetry to determine the extent of your visual field loss. Instead, we will determine the extent of your visual field loss using automated static threshold perimetry or manual kinetic perimetry.
f.
Screening tests.
We will not use the results of visual field screening tests, such as confrontation tests, tangent screen tests, or automated static screening tests, to determine that your impairment meets or medically equals a listing or to evaluate your residual functional capacity. We can consider
normal results from visual field screening tests to determine whether your visual disorder is severe when these test results are consistent with the other evidence in your case record. (See §§ 404.1520(c), 404.1521, 416.920(c), and 416.921 of this chapter.) We will not consider normal test results to be consistent with the other evidence if the clinical findings indicate that your visual disorder has progressed to the point that it is likely to cause visual field loss, or you have a history of an operative procedure for retinal detachment.
g.
Use of corrective lenses.
You must not wear eyeglasses during visual field testing because they limit your field of vision. You may wear contact lenses to correct your visual acuity during the visual field test to obtain the most accurate visual field measurements. For this single purpose, you do not need to demonstrate that you have the ability to use the contact lenses on a sustained basis.
h.
Scotoma.
A scotoma is a field defect or non-seeing area (also referred to as a “blind spot”) in the visual field surrounded by a normal field or seeing area. When we measure your visual field, we subtract the length of any scotoma, other than the normal blind spot, from the overall length of any diameter on which it falls.
7.
How do we determine your visual acuity efficiency, visual field efficiency, and visual efficiency?
a.
General. Visual efficiency,
a calculated value of your remaining visual function, is the combination of your
visual acuity efficiency
and your
visual field efficiency
expressed as a percentage.
b.
Visual acuity efficiency.
Visual acuity efficiency is a percentage that corresponds to the best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in your better eye. See Table 1.
Table 1—Visual Acuity Efficiency
Snellen best-corrected central visual acuity for distance
English
Metric
Visual acuity efficiency (%)
(2.04A)
20/16
6/5
100
20/20
6/6
100
20/25
6/7.5
95
20/30
6/9
90
20/40
6/12
85
20/50
6/15
75
20/60
6/18
70
20/70
6/21
65
20/80
6/24
60
20/100
6/30
50
c.
Visual field efficiency.
Visual field efficiency is a percentage that corresponds to the visual field in your better eye. Under 2.03C, we require kinetic perimetry to determine your visual field efficiency percentage. We calculate the visual field efficiency percentage by adding the number of degrees you see along the eight principal meridians found on a visual field chart (0, 45, 90, 135, 180, 225, 270, and 315) in your better eye and dividing by 5. For example, in Figure 1:
A.
The diagram of the left eye illustrates a visual field, as measured with a III4e stimulus, contracted to 30 degrees in two meridians (180 and 225) and to 20 degrees in the remaining six meridians. The visual efficiency percentage of this field is: ((2 × 30) + (6 × 20)) ÷ 5 = 36 percent.
B.
The diagram of the right eye illustrates the extent of a normal visual field as measured with a III4e stimulus. The sum of the eight principal meridians of this field is 500 degrees. The visual efficiency percentage of this field is 500 ÷ 5 = 100 percent.
ER28MR13.002
d.
Visual efficiency.
Under 2.04A, we calculate the visual efficiency percentage by multiplying your visual acuity efficiency percentage (see 2.00A7b) by your visual field efficiency percentage (see 2.00A7c) and dividing by 100. For example, if your visual acuity efficiency percentage is 75 and your visual field efficiency percentage is 36, your visual efficiency percentage is: (75 × 36) ÷ 100 = 27 percent.
8.
How do we determine your visual acuity impairment value, visual field impairment value, and visual impairment value?
a.
General. Visual impairment value,
a calculated value of your loss of visual function, is the combination of your
visual acuity impairment value
and your
visual field impairment value.
b.
Visual acuity impairment value.
Your visual acuity impairment value corresponds to the best-corrected central visual acuity for distance in your better eye. See Table 2.
Table 2—Visual Acuity Impairment Value
Snellen best-corrected central visual acuity for distance
Visual acuity
impairment
value (2.04B)
English
Metric
20/16
6/5
0.00
20/20
6/6
0.00
20/25
6/7.5
0.10
20/30
6/9
0.18
20/40
6/12
0.30
20/50
6/15
0.40
20/60
6/18
0.48
20/70
6/21
0.54
20/80
6/24
0.60
20/100
6/30
0.70
c.
Visual field impairment value.
Your visual field impairment value corresponds to the visual field in your better eye. Using the MD from acceptable automated static threshold perimetry, we calculate the visual field impairment value by dividing the absolute value of the MD by 22. For example, if your MD on an HFA 30-2 is −16, your visual field impairment value is: −16| ÷ 22 = 0.73.
d.
Visual impairment value.
Under 2.04B, we calculate the visual impairment value by adding your visual acuity impairment value (see 2.00A8b) and your visual field impairment value (see 2.00A8c). For example, if your visual acuity impairment value is 0.48 and your visual field impairment value is 0.73, your visual impairment value is: 0.48 + 0.73 = 1.21.
9.
What are our requirements for an acceptable perimeter?
We will use results from automated static threshold perimetry performed on a perimeter that:
a. Uses optical projection to generate the test stimuli.
b. Has an internal normative database for automatically comparing your performance with that of the general population.
c. Has a statistical analysis package that is able to calculate visual field indices, particularly MD.
d. Demonstrates the ability to correctly detect visual field loss and correctly identify normal visual fields.
e. Demonstrates good test-retest reliability.
f. Has undergone clinical validation studies by three or more independent laboratories with results published in peer-reviewed ophthalmic journals.
B.
How do we evaluate hearing loss?
1.
What evidence do we need?
a. We need evidence showing that you have a medically determinable impairment that causes your hearing loss and audiometric measurements of the severity of your hearing loss. We generally require both an otologic examination and audiometric testing to establish that you have a medically determinable impairment that causes your hearing loss. You should have this audiometric testing within 2 months of the otologic examination. Once we have evidence that you have a medically determinable impairment, we can use the results of later audiometric testing to assess the severity of your hearing loss without another otologic examination. We will consider your test scores together with any other relevant information we have about your hearing, including information from outside of the test setting.
b. The otologic examination must be performed by a licensed physician (medical or osteopathic doctor) or audiologist. It must include your medical history, your description of how your hearing loss affects you, and the physician's or audiologist's description of the appearance of the external ears (pinnae and external ear canals), evaluation of the tympanic membranes, and assessment of any middle ear abnormalities.
c. Audiometric testing must be performed by, or under the directsupervision of, a licensed audiologist or an otolaryngologist.
2.
What audiometric testing do we need when you do not have a cochlear implant?
a. We generally need pure tone air conduction and bone conduction testing, speech reception threshold (SRT) testing (also referred to as “spondee threshold” or “ST” testing), and word recognition testing (also referred to as “word discrimination” or “speech discrimination” testing). This testing must be conducted in a sound-treated booth or room and must be in accordance with the most recently published standards of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Each ear must be tested separately.
b. You must not wear hearing aids during the testing. Additionally, a person described in 2.00B1c must perform an otoscopic examination immediately before the audiometric testing. (An
otoscopic examination
provides a description of the appearance of your external ear canals and an evaluation of the tympanic membranes. In these rules, we use the term to include otoscopic examinations performed by physicians and otoscopic inspections performed by audiologists and others.) The otoscopic examination must show that there are no conditions that would prevent valid audiometric testing, such as fluid in the ear, ear infection, or obstruction in an ear canal. The person performing the test should also report on any other factors, such as your cooperation with the test, that can affect the interpretation of the test results.
c. To determine whether your hearing loss meets the air and bone conduction criteria in 2.10A, we will average your air and bone conduction hearing thresholds at 500, 1000, and 2000 Hertz (Hz). If you do not have a response at a particular frequency, we will use a threshold of 5 decibels (dB) over the limit of the audiometer.
d. The SRT is the minimum dB level required for you to recognize 50 percent of the words on a standard list of spondee words. (Spondee words are two-syllable words that have equal stress on each syllable.) The SRT is usually within 10 dB of the average pure tone air conduction hearing thresholds at 500, 1000, and 2000 Hz. If the SRT is not within 10 dB of the average pure tone air conduction threshold, the reason for the discrepancy must be documented. If we cannot determine that there is a medical basis for the discrepancy, we will not use the results of the testing to determine whether your hearing loss meets a listing.
e. Word recognition testing determines your ability to recognize a standardized list of phonetically balanced monosyllabic words in the absence of any visual cues. This testing must be performed in quiet. The list may be recorded or presented live, but in either case the words should be presented at a level of amplification that will measure your maximum ability to discriminate words, usually 35 to 40 dB above your SRT. However, the amplification level used in the testing must be medically appropriate, and you must be able to tolerate it. If you cannot be tested at 35 to 40 dB above your SRT, the person who performs the test should report your word recognition testing score at your highest comfortable level of amplification.
3.
What audiometric testing do we need when you have a cochlear implant?
a. If you have a cochlear implant, we will consider you to be disabled until 1 year after initial implantation.
b. After that period, we need word recognition testing performed with any version of the Hearing in Noise Test (HINT) to determine whether your impairment meets 2.11B. This testing must be conducted in quiet in a sound field. Your implant must be functioning properly and adjusted to your normal settings. The sentences should be presented at 60 dB HL (Hearing Level) and without any visual cues.
4.
How do we evaluate your word recognition ability if you are not fluent in English?
If you are not fluent in English, you should have word recognition testing using an appropriate word list for the language in which you are most fluent. The person conducting the test should be fluent in the language used for the test. If there is no appropriate word list or no person who is fluent in the language and qualified to perform the test, it may not be possible to measure your word recognition ability. If your word recognition ability cannot be measured, your hearing loss cannot meet 2.10B or 2.11B. Instead, we will consider the facts of your case to determine whether you have difficulty understanding words in the language in which you are most fluent, and if so, whether that degree of difficulty medically equals 2.10B or 2.11B. For example, we will consider how you interact with family members, interpreters, and other persons who speak the language in which you are most fluent.
C.
How do we evaluate vertigo associated with disturbances of labyrinthine-vestibular function, including Meniere's disease?
1. These disturbances of balance are characterized by an hallucination of motion or loss of position sense and a sensation of dizziness which may be constant or may occur in paroxysmal attacks. Nausea, vomiting, ataxia, and incapacitation are frequently observed, particularly during the acute attack. It is important to differentiate the report of rotary vertigo from that of “dizziness” which is described as lightheadedness, unsteadiness, confusion, or syncope.
2. Meniere's disease is characterized by paroxysmal attacks of vertigo, tinnitus, and fluctuating hearing loss. Remissions are unpredictable and irregular, but may be longlasting; hence, the severity of impairment is best determined after prolonged observation and serial reexaminations.
3. The diagnosis of a vestibular disorder requires a comprehensive neuro-otolaryngologic examination with a detailed description of the vertiginous episodes, including notation of frequency, severity, and duration of the attacks. Pure tone and speech audiometry with the appropriate special examinations, such as Bekesy audiometry, are necessary. Vestibular functions is assessed by positional and caloric testing, preferably by electronystagmography. When polytomograms, contrast radiography, or other special tests have been performed, copies of the reports of these tests should be obtained in addition to appropriate medically acceptable imaging reports of the skull and temporal bone. Medically acceptable imaging includes, but is not limited to, x-ray imaging, computerized axial tomography (CAT scan) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with or without contrast material, myelography, and radionuclear bone scans. “Appropriate” means that the technique used is the proper one to support the evaluation and diagnosis of the impairment.
D.
Loss of speech.
In evaluating the loss of speech, the ability to produce speech by any means includes the use of mechanical or electronic devices that improve voice or articulation. Impairments of speech may also be evaluated under the body system for the underlying disorder, such as neurological disorders, 11.00ff.
E.
How do we evaluate impairments that do not meet one of the special senses and speech listings?
1. These listings are only examples of common special senses and speech disorders that we consider severe enough to prevent an individual from doing any gainful activity. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether the impairment(s) medically equals a listing. (See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926.) If you have an impairment(s) that does not meet or medically equal a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. Therefore, we proceed to the fourth, and if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920. When we decide whether you continue to be disabled, we use the rules in §§ 404.1594, 416.994, or 416.994a, as appropriate.
2.01 Category of Impairments, Special Senses and Speech
2.02
Loss of central visual acuity.
Remaining vision in the better eye after best correction is 20/200 or less.
2.03
Contraction of the visual field in the better eye,
with:
A. The widest diameter subtending an angle around the point of fixation no greater than 20 degrees.
OR
B. An MD of 22 decibels or greater, determined by automated static threshold perimetry that measures the central 30 degrees of the visual field (see 2.00A6d).
OR
C. A visual field efficiency of 20 percent or less, determined by kinetic perimetry (see 2.00A7c).
2.04
Loss of visual efficiency, or visual impairment, in the better eye:
A. A visual efficiency percentage of 20 or less after best correction (see 2.00A7d).
OR
B. A visual impairment value of 1.00 or greater after best correction (see 2.00A8d).
2.07
Disturbance of labyrinthine-vestibular function (including Meniere's disease),
characterized by a history of frequent attacks of balance disturbance, tinnitus, and progressive loss of hearing. With both A and B:
A. Disturbed function of vestibular labyrinth demonstrated by caloric or other vestibular tests; and
B. Hearing loss established by audiometry.
2.09
Loss of speech
due to any cause, with inability to produce by any means speech that can be heard, understood, or sustained.
Table 1—Percentage of Visual Acuity Efficiency Corresponding to the Best-Corrected Visual Acuity Measurement for Distance in the Better Eye
Snellen
English
Metric
Percent
visual
acuity efficiency
20/16
6/5
100
20/20
6/6
100
20/25
6/7.5
95
20/30
6/9
90
20/40
6/12
85
20/50
6/15
75
20/60
6/18
70
20/70
6/21
65
20/80
6/24
60
20/100
6/30
50
Table 2—Chart of Visual Fields
ER20NO06.000
1. The diagram of the right eye illustrates the extent of a normal visual field as measured with a III4e stimulus. The sum of the eight principal meridians of this field is 500 degrees.
2. The diagram of the left eye illustrates a visual field contracted to 30 degrees in two meridians and to 20 degrees in the remaining six meridians. The percent of visual field efficiency of this field is: (2 × 30) + (6 × 20) = 180 ÷ 500 = 0.36 or 36 percent visual field efficiency.
2.10
Hearing loss not treated with cochlear implantation.
A. An average air conduction hearing threshold of 90 decibels or greater in the better ear and an average bone conduction hearing threshold of 60 decibels or greater in the better ear (
see
2.00B2c).
OR
B. A word recognition score of 40 percent or less in the better ear determined using a standardized list of phonetically balanced monosyllabic words (see 2.00B2e).
2.11
Hearing loss treated with cochlear implantation.
A. Consider under a disability for 1 year after initial implantation.
OR
B. If more than 1 year after initial implantation, a word recognition score of 60 percent or less determined using the HINT (
see
2.00B3b).

# 3.00 Respiratory Disorders
A.
Which disorders do we evaluate in this body system?
1. We evaluate respiratory disorders that result in obstruction (difficulty moving air out of the lungs) or restriction (difficulty moving air into the lungs), or that interfere with diffusion (gas exchange) across cell membranes in the lungs. Examples of such disorders and the listings we use to evaluate them include chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (chronic bronchitis and emphysema, 3.02), pulmonary fibrosis and pneumoconiosis (3.02), asthma (3.02 or 3.03), cystic fibrosis (3.04), and bronchiectasis (3.02 or 3.07). We also use listings in this body system to evaluate respiratory failure (3.04D or 3.14), chronic pulmonary hypertension (3.09), and lung transplantation (3.11).
2. We evaluate cancers affecting the respiratory system under the listings in 13.00. We evaluate the pulmonary effects of neuromuscular and autoimmune disorders under these listings or under the listings in 11.00 or 14.00, respectively.
B.
What are the symptoms and signs of respiratory disorders?
Symptoms and signs of respiratory disorders include dyspnea (shortness of breath), chest pain, coughing, wheezing, sputum production, hemoptysis (coughing up blood from the respiratory tract), use of accessory muscles of respiration, and tachypnea (rapid rate of breathing).
C.
What abbreviations do we use in this body system?
1.
ABG
means arterial blood gas.
2.
BiPAP
means bi-level positive airway pressure ventilation.
3.
BTPS
means body temperature and ambient pressure, saturated with water vapor.
4.
CF
means cystic fibrosis.
5.
CFRD
means CF-related diabetes.
6.
CFTR
means CF transmembrane conductance regulator.
7.
CO
means carbon monoxide.
8.
COPD
means chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
9.
DLCO
means diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide.
10.
FEV
1
means forced expiratory volume in the first second of a forced expiratory maneuver.
11.
FVC
means forced vital capacity.
12.
L
means liter.
13.
mL CO (STPD)/min/mmHg
means milliliters of carbon monoxide at standard temperature and pressure, dry, per minute, per millimeter of mercury.
14.
P
a
O
2
means arterial blood partial pressure of oxygen.
15.
P
a
CO
2
means arterial blood partial pressure of carbon dioxide.
16.
S
p
O
2
means percentage of oxygen saturation of blood hemoglobin measured by pulse oximetry.
17.
6MWT
means 6-minute walk test.
18.
VI
means volume of inhaled gas during a DLCO test.
D.
What documentation do we need to evaluate your respiratory disorder?
1. We need
medical evidence
to document and assess the severity of your respiratory disorder. Medical evidence should include your medical history, physical examination findings, the results of imaging (see 3.00D3), pulmonary function tests (see 3.00D4), other relevant laboratory tests, and descriptions of any prescribed treatment and your response to it. We may not need all of this evidence depending on your particular respiratory disorder and its effects on you.
2. If you use
supplemental oxygen,
we still need medical evidence to establish the severity of your respiratory disorder.
3.
Imaging
refers to medical imaging techniques, such as x-ray and computerized tomography. The imaging must be consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice as the proper technique to support the evaluation of the disorder.
4.
Pulmonary function tests
include
spirometry
(which measures ventilation of the lungs),
DLCO
tests (which measure gas diffusion in the lungs),
ABG
tests (which measure the partial pressure of oxygen,
P
a
O
2
, and carbon dioxide,
P
a
CO
2
, in the arterial blood), and
pulse oximetry
(which measures oxygen saturation,
S
p
O
2
, of peripheral blood hemoglobin).
E.
What is spirometry and what are our requirements for an acceptable test and report?
1. Spirometry, which measures how well you move air into and out of your lungs, involves at least three forced expiratory maneuvers during the same test session. A forced expiratory maneuver is a maximum inhalation followed by a forced maximum exhalation, and measures exhaled volumes of air over time. The volume of air you exhale in the first second of the forced expiratory maneuver is the FEV
1
. The total volume of air that you exhale during the entire forced expiratory maneuver is the FVC. We use your highest FEV
1
value to evaluate your respiratory disorder under 3.02A, 3.03A, and 3.04A, and your highest FVC value to evaluate your respiratory disorder under 3.02B, regardless of whether the values are from the same forced expiratory maneuver or different forced expiratory maneuvers.
2. We have the following requirements for spirometry under these listings:
a. You must be medically stable at the time of the test. Examples of when we would not consider you to be medically stable include when you are:
(i) Within 2 weeks of a change in your prescribed respiratory medication.
(ii) Experiencing, or within 30 days of completion of treatment for, a lower respiratory tract infection.
(iii) Experiencing, or within 30 days of completion of treatment for, an acute exacerbation (temporary worsening) of a chronic respiratory disorder. Wheezing by itself does not indicate that you are not medically stable.
(iv) Hospitalized, or within 30 days of a hospital discharge, for an acute myocardial infarction (heart attack).
b. During testing, if your FEV
1
is less than 70 percent of your predicted normal value, we require repeat spirometry after inhalation of a bronchodilator to evaluate your respiratory disorder under these listings, unless it is medically contraindicated. If you used a bronchodilator before the test and your FEV
1
is less than 70 percent of your predicted normal value, we still require repeat spirometry after inhalation of a bronchodilator unless the supervising physician determines that it is not safe for you to take a bronchodilator again (in which case we may need to reschedule the test). If you do not have post-bronchodilator spirometry, the test report must explain why. We can use the results of spirometry administered without bronchodilators when the use of bronchodilators is medically contraindicated.
c. Your forced expiratory maneuvers must be satisfactory. We consider a forced expiratory maneuver to be satisfactory when you exhale with maximum effort following a full inspiration, and when the test tracing has a sharp takeoff and rapid rise to peak flow, has a smooth contour, and either lasts for at least 6 seconds or maintains a plateau for at least 1 second.
3. The spirometry report must include the following information:
a. The date of the test and your name, age or date of birth, gender, and height without shoes. (We will assume that your recorded height on the date of the test is without shoes, unless we have evidence to the contrary.) If your spine is abnormally curved (for example, you have kyphoscoliosis), we will substitute the longest distance between your outstretched fingertips with your arms abducted 90 degrees in place of your height when this measurement is greater than your standing height without shoes.
b. Any factors, if applicable, that can affect the interpretation of the test results (for example, your cooperation or effort in doing the test).
c. Legible tracings of your forced expiratory maneuvers in a volume-time format showing your name and the date of the test for each maneuver.
4. If we purchase spirometry, the medical source we designate to administer the test is solely responsible for deciding whether it is safe for you to do the test and for how to administer it.
F.
What is a DLCO test, and what are our requirements for an acceptable test and report?
1. A DLCO test measures the gas exchange across cell membranes in your lungs. It measures how well CO diffuses from the alveoli (air sacs) of your lungs into your blood. DLCO may be severely reduced in some disorders, such as interstitial lung disease (for example, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, asbestosis, and sarcoidosis) and COPD (particularly emphysema), even when the results of spirometry are not significantly reduced. We use the average of two of your unadjusted (that is, uncorrected for hemoglobin concentration) DLCO measurements reported in mL CO (STPD)/min/mmHg to evaluate your respiratory disorder under 3.02C1.
2. We have the following requirements for DLCO tests under these listings:
a. You must be medically stable at the time of the test. See 3.00E2a.
b. The test must use the single-breath technique.
(i) The VI during the DLCO maneuver must be at least 85 percent of your current FVC, and your time of inhalation must be less than 4 seconds. (See 3.00E for our rules for programmatically acceptable spirometry.) If you do not have an FVC measurement on the same day as the DLCO test, we may use your FVC from programmatically acceptable spirometry administered within 90 days of the DLCO test.
(ii) Your breath-hold time must be between 8 and 12 seconds.
(iii) Your total exhalation time must be less than or equal to 4 seconds, with a sample collection time of less than 3 seconds. If your FVC is at least 2.0 L, the washout volume must be between 0.75 L and 1.0 L. If your FVC is less than 2.0 L, the washout volume must be at least 0.5 L.
3. The DLCO test report must include the following information:
a. The date of the test and your name, age or date of birth, gender, and height without shoes. (We will assume that your recorded height on the date of the test is without shoes, unless we have evidence to the contrary.) If your spine is abnormally curved (for example, you have kyphoscoliosis), we will substitute the longest distance between your outstretched fingertips with your arms abducted 90 degrees in place of your height when this measurement is greater than your standing height without shoes.
b. Any factors, if applicable, that can affect the interpretation of the test results (for example, your cooperation or effort in doing the test).
c. Legible tracings of your VI, breath-hold maneuver, and volume of exhaled gas showing your name and the date of the test for each DLCO maneuver.
d. At least two acceptable (see 3.00F2) DLCO measurements within 3 mL CO (STPD)/min/mmHg of each other
or
within 10 percent of the highest value.
4. We may need to purchase a DLCO test to determine whether your disorder meets 3.02C1 when we have evidence showing that you have a chronic respiratory disorder that could result in impaired gas exchange, unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision on another basis. Since the DLCO calculation requires a current FVC measurement, we may also purchase spirometry at the same time as the DLCO test, even if we already have programmatically acceptable spirometry.
5. Before we purchase a DLCO test, a medical consultant (see §§ 404.1616 and 416.1016 of this chapter), preferably one with experience in the care of people with respiratory disorders, must review your case record to determine if we need the test. The medical source we designate to administer the test is solely responsible for deciding whether it is safe for you to do the test and for how to administer it.
G.
What is an ABG test, and what are our requirements for an acceptable test and report?
1.
General.
An ABG test measures P
a
O
2,
P
a
CO
2
, and the concentration of hydrogen ions in your arterial blood. We use a resting or an exercise ABG measurement to evaluate your respiratory disorder under 3.02C2.
2.
Resting ABG tests.
a. We have the following requirements for resting ABG tests under these listings:
(i) You must be medically stable at the time of the test. See 3.00E2a.
(ii) The test must be administered while you are breathing room air; that is, without oxygen supplementation.
b. The resting ABG test report must include the following information:
(i) Your name, the date of the test, and either the altitude or both the city and State of the test site.
(ii) The P
a
O
2
and P
a
CO
2
values.
c. We may need to purchase a resting ABG test to determine whether your disorder meets 3.02C2 when we have evidence showing that you have a chronic respiratory disorder that could result in impaired gas exchange, unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision on another basis.
d. Before we purchase a resting ABG test, a medical consultant (see §§ 404.1616 and 416.1016 of this chapter), preferably one with experience in the care of people with respiratory disorders, must review your case record to determine if we need the test. The medical source we designate to administer the test is solely responsible for deciding whether it is safe for you to do the test and for how to administer it.
3.
Exercise ABG tests.
a. We will
not
purchase an exercise ABG test.
b. We have the following requirements for exercise ABG tests under these listings:
(i) You must have done the exercise under steady state conditions while breathing room air. If you were tested on a treadmill, you generally must have exercised for at least 4 minutes at a grade and speed providing oxygen (O
2
) consumption of approximately 17.5 milliliters per kilogram per minute (mL/kg/min) or 5.0 metabolic equivalents (METs). If you were tested on a cycle ergometer, you generally must have exercised for at least 4 minutes at an exercise equivalent of 5.0 METs.
(ii) We may use a test in which you have not exercised for at least 4 minutes. If you were unable to complete at least 4 minutes of steady state exercise, we need a statement by the person administering the test about whether the results are a valid indication of your respiratory status. For example, this statement may include information about your cooperation or effort in doing the test and whether you were limited in completing the test because of your respiratory disorder or another impairment.
c. The exercise ABG test report must include the following information:
(i) Your name, the date of the test, and either the altitude or both the city and state of the test site.
(ii) The P
a
O
2
and P
a
CO
2
values.
H.
What is pulse oximetry, and what are our requirements for an acceptable test and report?
1. Pulse oximetry measures S
p
O
2
, the percentage of oxygen saturation of blood hemoglobin. We use a pulse oximetry measurement (either at rest, during a 6MWT, or after a 6MWT) to evaluate your respiratory disorder under 3.02C3 or, if you have CF, to evaluate it under 3.04F.
2. We have the following requirements for pulse oximetry under 3.02C3:
a. You must be medically stable at the time of the test. See 3.00E2a.
b. Your pulse oximetry measurement must be recorded while you are breathing room air; that is, without oxygen supplementation.
c. Your pulse oximetry measurement must be stable. By “stable,” we mean that the range of S
p
O
2
values (that is, lowest to highest) during any 15-second interval cannot exceed 2 percentage points. For example: (1) The measurement is stable if the lowest S
p
O
2
value during a 15-second interval is 87 percent and the highest value is 89 percent—a range of 2 percentage points. (2) The measurement is not stable if the lowest value is 86
percent and the highest value is 89 percent—a range of 3 percentage points.
d. If you have had more than one measurement (for example, at rest and after a 6MWT), we will use the measurement with the lowest S
p
O
2
value.
e. The pulse oximetry report must include the following information:
(i) Your name, the date of the test, and either the altitude or both the city and State of the test site.
(ii) A graphical printout showing your S
p
O
2
value and a concurrent, acceptable pulse wave. An acceptable pulse wave is one that shows the characteristic pulse wave; that is, sawtooth-shaped with a rapid systolic upstroke (nearly vertical) followed by a slower diastolic downstroke (angled downward).
f. We may need to purchase pulse oximetry at rest to determine whether your disorder meets 3.02C3 when we have evidence showing that you have a chronic respiratory disorder that could result in impaired gas exchange, unless we can make a fully favorable determination or decision on another basis. We may purchase pulse oximetry during and after a 6MWT if your S
p
O
2
value at rest is greater than the value in Table V.
g. Before we purchase pulse oximetry, a medical consultant (see §§ 404.1616 and 416.1016 of this chapter), preferably one with experience in the care of people with respiratory disorders, must review your case record to determine if we need the test. The medical source we designate to administer the test is solely responsible for deciding whether it is safe for you to do the test and for how to administer it.
3. We have the following requirements for pulse oximetry under 3.04F:
a. You must be medically stable at the time of the test. See 3.00E2a.
b. Your pulse oximetry measurement must be recorded while you are breathing room air; that is, without oxygen supplementation.
c. If you have had more than one measurement (for example, at rest and after a 6MWT), we will use the measurement with the lowest S
p
O
2
value.
d. The pulse oximetry report must include your name, the date of the test, and either the altitude or both the city and State of the test site. If you have CF, we do not require a graphical printout showing your S
p
O
2
value and a concurrent, acceptable pulse wave.
I.
What is asthma and how do we evaluate it?
1.
Asthma
is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the lung airways that we evaluate under 3.02 or 3.03. If you have respiratory failure resulting from chronic asthma (see 3.00N), we will evaluate it under 3.14.
2. For the purposes of 3.03:
a. We need evidence showing that you have listing-level (see Table VI in 3.03A) airflow obstruction at baseline while you are medically stable.
b. The phrase “consider under a disability for 1 year” in 3.03B does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your asthma continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling.
c. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case, but it will be no later than the admission date of your first of three hospitalizations that satisfy the criteria of 3.03B.
J.
What is CF and how do we evaluate it?
1.
General.
We evaluate
CF,
a genetic disorder that results in abnormal salt and water transport across cell membranes in the lungs, pancreas, and other body organs, under 3.04. We need the evidence described in 3.00J2 to establish that you have CF.
2.
Documentation of CF.
We need a report signed by a physician (see §§ 404.1513(a) and 416.913(a) of this chapter) showing both a
and
b:
a. One of the following:
(i) A positive newborn screen for CF; or
(ii) A history of CF in a sibling; or
(iii) Documentation of at least one specific CF phenotype or clinical criterion (for example, chronic sino-pulmonary disease with persistent colonization or infections with typical CF pathogens, pancreatic insufficiency, or salt-loss syndromes);
and
b. One of the following definitive laboratory tests:
(i) An elevated sweat chloride concentration equal to or greater than 60 millimoles per L; or
(ii) The identification of two CF gene mutations affecting the CFTR; or
(iii) Characteristic abnormalities in ion transport across the nasal epithelium.
c. When we have the report showing a and b, but it is not signed by a physician, we also need a report from a physician stating that you have CF.
d. When we do not have the report showing a and b, we need a report from a physician that is persuasive that a positive diagnosis of CF was confirmed by an appropriate definitive laboratory test. To be persuasive, this report must include a statement by the physician that you had the appropriate definitive laboratory test for diagnosing CF. The report must provide the test results or explain how your diagnosis was established that is consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
3.
CF pulmonary exacerbations.
Examples of CF pulmonary exacerbations include increased cough and sputum production, hemoptysis, increased shortness of breath, increased fatigue, and reduction in pulmonary function. Treatment usually includes intravenous antibiotics and intensified airway clearance therapy (for example, increased frequencies of chest percussion or
increased use of inhaled nebulized therapies, such as bronchodilators or mucolytics).
4. For 3.04G, we require any two exacerbations or complications from the list in 3.04G1 through 3.04G4 within a 12-month period. You may have two of the same exacerbation or complication or two different ones.
a. If you have two of the acute exacerbations or complications we describe in 3.04G1 and 3.04G2, there must be at least 30 days between the two.
b. If you have one of the acute exacerbations or complications we describe in 3.04G1 and 3.04G2 and one of the chronic complications we describe in 3.04G3 and 3.04G4, the two can occur during the same time. For example, your CF meets 3.04G if you have the pulmonary hemorrhage we describe in 3.04G2 and the weight loss we describe in 3.04G3 even if the pulmonary hemorrhage occurs during the 90-day period in 3.04G3.
c. Your CF also meets 3.04G if you have both of the chronic complications in 3.04G3 and 3.04G4.
5. CF may also affect other body systems such as digestive or endocrine. If your CF, including pulmonary exacerbations and nonpulmonary complications, does not meet or medically equal a respiratory disorders listing, we may evaluate your CF-related impairments under the listings in the affected body system.
K.
What is bronchiectasis and how do we evaluate it?
Bronchiectasis is a chronic respiratory disorder that is characterized by abnormal and irreversible dilatation (enlargement) of the airways below the trachea, which may be associated with the accumulation of mucus, bacterial infections, and eventual airway scarring. We require imaging (see 3.00D3) to document this disorder. We evaluate your bronchiectasis under 3.02, or under 3.07 if you are having exacerbations or complications (for example, acute bacterial infections, increased shortness of breath, or coughing up blood) that require hospitalization.
L.
What is chronic pulmonary hypertension and how do we evaluate it?
1. Chronic pulmonary hypertension is an increase in the blood pressure of the blood vessels of the lungs. If pulmonary hypertension is not adequately treated, it can eventually result in right heart failure. We evaluate chronic pulmonary hypertension due to any cause under 3.09.
2. Chronic pulmonary hypertension is usually diagnosed by catheterization of the pulmonary artery. We will not purchase cardiac catheterization.
M.
How do we evaluate lung transplantation?
If you receive a lung transplant (or a lung transplant simultaneously with other organs, such as the heart), we will consider you to be disabled under 3.11 for 3 years from the date of the transplant. After that, we evaluate your residual impairment(s) by considering the adequacy of your post-transplant function, the frequency and severity of any rejection episodes you have, complications in other body systems, and adverse treatment effects. People who receive organ transplants generally have impairments that meet our definition of disability before they undergo transplantation. The phrase “consider under a disability for 3 years” in 3.11 does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your impairment(s) continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case.
N.
What is respiratory failure and how do we evaluate it?
Respiratory failure is the inability of the lungs to perform their basic function of gas exchange. We evaluate respiratory failure under 3.04D if you have CF-related respiratory failure, or under 3.14 if you have respiratory failure due to any other
chronic
respiratory disorder. Continuous positive airway pressure does not satisfy the criterion in 3.04D or 3.14, and cannot be substituted as an equivalent finding, for invasive mechanical ventilation or noninvasive ventilation with BiPAP.
O.
How do we consider the effects of obesity when we evaluate your respiratory disorder?
Obesity is a medically determinable impairment that is often associated with respiratory disorders. Obesity makes it harder for the chest and lungs to expand, which can compromise the ability of the respiratory system to supply adequate oxygen to the body. The combined effects of obesity with a respiratory disorder can be greater than the effects of each of the impairments considered separately. We consider any additional and cumulative effects of your obesity when we determine whether you have a severe respiratory disorder, a listing-level respiratory disorder, a combination of impairments that medically equals the severity of a listed impairment, and when we assess your residual functional capacity.
P.
What are sleep-related breathing disorders and how do we evaluate them?
1.
Sleep-related breathing disorders
(for example, sleep apnea) are characterized by transient episodes of interrupted breathing during sleep, which disrupt normal sleep patterns. Prolonged episodes can result in disorders such as hypoxemia (low blood oxygen) and pulmonary vasoconstriction (restricted blood flow in pulmonary blood vessels). Over time, these disorders may lead to chronic pulmonary hypertension or other complications.
2. We evaluate the complications of sleep-related breathing disorders under the listings in the affected body system(s). For example, we evaluate chronic pulmonary hypertension due to any cause under 3.09; chronic heart failure under 4.02; and disturbances in mood, cognition, and behavior under
12.02 or another appropriate mental disorders listing. We will not purchase polysomnography (sleep study).
Q.
How do we evaluate mycobacterial, mycotic, and other chronic infections of the lungs?
We evaluate chronic infections of the lungs that result in limitations in your respiratory function under 3.02.
R.
How do we evaluate respiratory disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of common respiratory disorders that we consider severe enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that meets the criteria of a listing in another body system. For example, if your CF has resulted in chronic pancreatic or hepatobiliary disease, we evaluate your impairment under the listings in 5.00.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter. Respiratory disorders may be associated with disorders in other body systems, and we consider the combined effects of multiple impairments when we determine whether they medically equal a listing. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. We proceed to the fourth step and, if necessary, the fifth step of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 3.01 Category of Impairments, Respiratory Disorders
3.02
Chronic respiratory disorders
due to any cause except CF (for CF, see 3.04) with A, B, C, or D:
A. FEV
1
(see 3.00E) less than or equal to the value in Table I-A or I-B for your age, gender, and height without shoes (see 3.00E3a).
Table I—FEV
1
Criteria for 3.02A
Height without shoes
(centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
Table I-A
Age 18 to attainment of age 20
Females FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Table I-B
Age 20 or older
Females FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
153.0
60.25
1.20
1.45
1.05
1.20
153.0 to
159.0
60.25 to
62.50
1.30
1.55
1.15
1.35
159.0 to
164.0
62.50 to
64.50
1.40
1.65
1.25
1.40
164.0 to
169.0
64.50 to
66.50
1.45
1.75
1.35
1.50
169.0 to
174.0
66.50 to
68.50
1.55
1.85
1.45
1.60
174.0 to
180.0
68.50 to
70.75
1.65
2.00
1.55
1.75
180.0 to
185.0
70.75 to
72.75
1.75
2.10
1.65
1.85
185.0 or more
72.75 or more
1.80
2.15
1.70
1.90
OR
B. FVC (see 3.00E) less than or equal to the value in Table II-A or II-B for your age, gender, and height without shoes (see 3.00E3a).
Height without shoes
(centimeters)
means less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means less than
Table II-A
Age 18 to attainment of age 20
Females FVC less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males FVC less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Table II-B
Age 20 or older
Females FVC less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males FVC less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
153.0
60.25
1.35
1.65
1.30
1.50
153.0 to
159.0
60.25 to
62.50
1.50
1.80
1.40
1.65
159.0 to
164.0
62.50 to
64.50
1.60
1.90
1.50
1.75
164.0 to
169.0
64.50 to
66.50
1.70
2.05
1.60
1.90
169.0 to
174.0
66.50 to
68.50
1.80
2.20
1.70
2.00
174.0 to
180.0
68.50 to
70.75
1.90
2.35
1.85
2.20
180.0 to
185.0
70.75 to
72.75
2.05
2.50
1.95
2.30
185.0 or more
72.75 or more
2.10
2.60
2.00
2.40
OR
C. Chronic impairment of gas exchange demonstrated by 1, 2, or 3:
1. Average of two unadjusted, single-breath DLCO measurements (see 3.00F) less than or equal to the value in Table III for your gender and height without shoes (see 3.00F3a); or
Table III—DLCO Criteria for 3.02C1
Height without shoes
(centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
Females DLCO less than or equal to
(mL CO (STPD)/min/mmHg)
Males DLCO less than or equal to
(mL CO (STPD)/min/mmHg)
153.0
60.25
8.0
9.0
153.0 to
159.0
60.25 to
62.50
8.5
9.5
159.0 to
164.0
62.50 to
64.50
9.0
10.0
164.0 to
169.0
64.50 to
66.50
9.5
10.5
169.0 to
174.0
66.50 to
68.50
10.0
11.0
174.0 to
180.0
68.50 to
70.75
10.5
11.5
180.0 to
185.0
70.75 to
72.75
11.0
12.0
185.0 or more
72.75 or more
11.5
12.5
2. Arterial P
a
O
2
and P
a
CO
2
measured concurrently by an ABG test, while at rest or during steady state exercise, breathing room air (see 3.00G3b), less than or equal to the applicable values in Table IV-A, IV-B, or IV-C; or

# Tables IV-A, IV-B, and IV-C—ABG Criteria for 3.02C2
Table IV-A
[Applicable at test sites less than 3,000 feet above sea level]
Arterial P
a
CO
2
(mm Hg)
and
Arterial P
a
O
2
less than or equal to
(mm Hg)
30 or below
65
31
64
32
63
33
62
34
61
35
60
36
59
37
58
38
57
39
56
40 or above
55
Table IV-B
[Applicable at test sites from 3,000 through 6,000 feet above sea level]
Arterial P
a
CO
2
(mm Hg)
and
Arterial P
a
O
2
less than or equal to
(mm Hg)
30 or below
60
31
59
32
58
33
57
34
56
35
55
36
54
37
53
38
52
39
51
40 or above
50
Table IV-C
[Applicable at test sites over 6,000 feet above sea level]
Arterial P
a
CO
2
(mm Hg)
and
Arterial P
a
O
2
less than or equal to
(mm Hg)
30 or below
55
31
54
32
53
33
52
34
51
35
50
36
49
37
48
38
47
39
46
40 or above
45
3. S
p
O
2
measured by pulse oximetry (see 3.00H2) either at rest, during a 6MWT, or after a 6MWT, less than or equal to the value in Table V.
Table V—S
p
O
2
Criteria for 3.02C3
Test site altitude
(feet above sea level)
S
p
O
2
less than or equal to
Less than 3,000
87 percent.
3,000 through 6,000
85 percent.
Over 6,000
83 percent.
OR
D. Exacerbations or complications requiring three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review). Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization.
3.03
Asthma
(see 3.00I), with both A and B:
A. FEV
1
(see 3.00E1) less than or equal to the value in Table VI-A or VI-B for your age, gender, and height without shoes (see
3.00E3a) measured within the same 12-month period as the hospitalizations in 3.03B.
Table VI—FEV
1
Criteria for 3.03A
Height without shoes
(centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
Table VI-A
Age 18 to attainment of age 20
Females FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males
FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Table VI-B
Age 20 or older
Females FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males
FEV
1
less than or equal to
(L, BTPS)
153.0
60.25
1.65
1.90
1.45
1.60
153.0 to
159.0
60.25 to
62.50
1.75
2.05
1.55
1.75
159.0 to
164.0
62.50 to
64.50
1.85
2.15
1.65
1.90
164.0 to
169.0
64.50 to
66.50
1.95
2.30
1.75
2.00
169.0 to
174.0
66.50 to
68.50
2.05
2.45
1.85
2.15
174.0 to
180.0
68.50 to
70.75
2.20
2.60
2.00
2.30
180.0 to
185.0
70.75 to
72.75
2.35
2.75
2.10
2.45
185.0 or more
72.75 or more
2.40
2.85
2.20
2.55
AND
B. Exacerbations or complications requiring three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review). Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization. Consider under a disability for 1 year from the discharge date of the last hospitalization; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s) under 3.03 or another appropriate listing.
3.04
Cystic fibrosis
(documented as described in 3.00J2) with A, B, C, D, E, F, or G:
A. FEV
1
(see 3.00E) less than or equal to the value in Table VII-A or VII-B for your age, gender, and height without shoes (see 3.00E3a).
Table VII—FEV
1
Criteria for 3.04A
Height without shoes
(centimeters)
means
less than
Height without shoes
(inches)
means
less than
Table VII-A
Age 18 to attainment of age 20
Females
FEV
1
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males
FEV
1
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Table VII-B
Age 20 or older
Females
FEV
1
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
Males
FEV
1
less than
or equal to
(L, BTPS)
153.0
60.25
1.65
1.90
1.45
1.60
153.0 to
159.0
60.25 to
62.50
1.75
2.05
1.55
1.75
159.0 to
164.0
62.50 to
64.50
1.85
2.15
1.65
1.90
164.0 to
169.0
64.50 to
66.50
1.95
2.30
1.75
2.00
169.0 to
174.0
66.50 to
68.50
2.05
2.45
1.85
2.15
174.0 to
180.0
68.50 to
70.75
2.20
2.60
2.00
2.30
180.0 to
185.0
70.75 to
72.75
2.35
2.75
2.10
2.45
185.0 or more
72.75 or more
2.40
2.85
2.20
2.55
OR
B. Exacerbations or complications (see 3.00J3) requiring three hospitalizations of any length within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review).
OR
C. Spontaneous pneumothorax, secondary to CF, requiring chest tube placement.
OR
D. Respiratory failure (see 3.00N) requiring invasive mechanical ventilation, noninvasive ventilation with BiPAP, or a combination of both treatments, for a continuous period of at least 48 hours, or for a continuous period of at least 72 hours if postoperatively.
OR
E. Pulmonary hemorrhage requiring vascular embolization to control bleeding.
OR
F. S
p
O
2
measured by pulse oximetry (see 3.00H3) either at rest, during a 6MWT, or after a 6MWT, less than or equal to the value
in Table VIII,
twice
within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review).
Tables VIII—S
p
O
2
Criteria for 3.04F
Test site altitude
(feet above sea level)
S
p
O
2
less than or equal to
Less than 3,000
89 percent.
3,000 through 6,000
87 percent.
Over 6,000
85 percent.
OR
G. Two of the following exacerbations or complications (either two of the same or two different, see 3.00J3 and 3.00J4) within a 12-month period (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review):
1. Pulmonary exacerbation requiring 10 consecutive days of intravenous antibiotic treatment.
2. Pulmonary hemorrhage (hemoptysis with more than blood-streaked sputum but not requiring vascular embolization) requiring hospitalization of any length.
3. Weight loss requiring daily supplemental enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy for at least 90 consecutive days
or
parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter for at least 90 consecutive days.
4. CFRD requiring daily insulin therapy for at least 90 consecutive days.
3.05 [Reserved]
3.06 [Reserved]
3.07
Bronchiectasis
(see 3.00K), documented by imaging (see 3.00D3), with exacerbations or complications requiring three hospitalizations within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review). Each hospitalization must last at least 48 hours, including hours in a hospital emergency department immediately before the hospitalization.
3.08 [Reserved]
3.09
Chronic pulmonary hypertension due to any cause
(see 3.00L) documented by mean pulmonary artery pressure equal to or greater than 40 mm Hg as determined by cardiac catheterization while medically stable (see 3.00E2a).
3.10 [Reserved]
3.11
Lung transplantation
(see 3.00M). Consider under a disability for 3 years from the date of the transplant; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
3.12 [Reserved]
3.13 [Reserved]
3.14
Respiratory failure
(see 3.00N) resulting from any underlying chronic respiratory disorder except CF (for CF, see 3.04D), requiring invasive mechanical ventilation, noninvasive ventilation with BiPAP, or a combination of both treatments, for a continuous period of at least 48 hours, or for a continuous period of at least 72 hours if postoperatively,
twice
within a 12-month period and at least 30 days apart (the 12-month period must occur within the period we are considering in connection with your application or continuing disability review).

# 4.00 Cardiovascular System

# A. General
1.
What do we mean by a cardiovascular impairment?
a. We mean any disorder that affects the proper functioning of the heart or the circulatory system (that is, arteries, veins, capillaries, and the lymphatic drainage). The disorder can be congenital or acquired.
b. Cardiovascular impairment results from one or more of four consequences of heart disease:
(i) Chronic heart failure or ventricular dysfunction.
(ii) Discomfort or pain due to myocardial ischemia, with or without necrosis of heart muscle.
(iii) Syncope, or near syncope, due to inadequate cerebral perfusion from any cardiac cause, such as obstruction of flow or disturbance in rhythm or conduction resulting in inadequate cardiac output.
(iv) Central cyanosis due to right-to-left shunt, reduced oxygen concentration in the arterial blood, or pulmonary vascular disease.
c. Disorders of the veins or arteries (for example, obstruction, rupture, or aneurysm) may cause impairments of the lower extremities (peripheral vascular disease), the central nervous system, the eyes, the kidneys, and other organs. We will evaluate peripheral vascular disease under 4.11 or 4.12 and impairments of another body system(s) under the listings for that body system(s).
2.
What do we consider in evaluating cardiovascular impairments?
The listings in this section describe cardiovascular impairments based on symptoms, signs, laboratory findings, response to a regimen of prescribed treatment, and functional limitations.
3.
What do the following terms or phrases mean in these listings?
a.
Medical consultant
is an individual defined in §§ 404.1616(a) and 416.1016(a). This term does not include medical sources who provide consultative examinations for us. We use the abbreviation “MC” throughout this section to designate a medical consultant.
b.
Persistent
means that the longitudinal clinical record shows that, with few exceptions, the required finding(s) has been present, or is expected to be present, for a continuous period of at least 12 months, such that a pattern of continuing severity is established.
c.
Recurrent
means that the longitudinal clinical record shows that, within a consecutive 12-month period, the finding(s) occurs at least three times, with intervening periods of improvement of sufficient duration that it is clear that separate events are involved.
d.
Appropriate medically acceptable imaging
means that the technique used is the proper one to evaluate and diagnose the impairment and is commonly recognized as accurate for assessing the cited finding.
e.
A consecutive 12-month period
means a period of 12 consecutive months, all or part of which must occur within the period we are considering in connection with an application or continuing disability review.
f.
Uncontrolled
means the impairment does not adequately respond to standard prescribed medical treatment.

# B. Documenting Cardiovascular Impairment
1.
What basic documentation do we need?
We need sufficiently detailed reports of history, physical examinations, laboratory studies, and any prescribed treatment and response to allow us to assess the severity and duration of your cardiovascular impairment. A longitudinal clinical record covering a period of not less than 3 months of observations and treatment is usually necessary, unless we can make a determination or decision based on the current evidence.
2.
Why is a longitudinal clinical record important?
We will usually need a longitudinal clinical record to assess the severity and expected duration of your impairment(s). If you have a listing-level impairment, you probably will have received medically prescribed treatment. Whenever there is evidence of such treatment, your longitudinal clinical record should include a description of the ongoing management and evaluation provided by your treating or other medical source. It should also include your response to this medical management, as well as information about the nature and severity of your impairment. The record will provide us with information on your functional status over an extended period of time and show whether your ability to function is improving, worsening, or unchanging.
3.
What if you have not received ongoing medical treatment?
a. You may not have received ongoing treatment or have an ongoing relationship with the medical community despite the existence of a severe impairment(s). In this situation, we will base our evaluation on the current objective medical evidence and the other evidence we have. If you do not receive treatment, you cannot show an impairment that meets the criteria of most of these listings. However, we may find you disabled because you have another impairment(s) that in combination with your cardiovascular impairment medically equals the severity of a listed impairment or based on consideration of your residual functional capacity and age, education, and work experience.
b. Unless we can decide your claim favorably on the basis of the current evidence, a longitudinal record is still important. In rare instances where there is no or insufficient longitudinal evidence, we may purchase a consultative examination(s) to help us establish the severity and duration of your impairment.
4.
When will we wait before we ask for more evidence?
a. We will wait when we have information showing that your impairment is not yet stable and the expected change in your impairment might affect our determination or decision. In these situations, we need to wait to properly evaluate the severity and duration of your impairment during a stable period. Examples of when we might wait are:
(i) If you have had a recent acute event; for example, a myocardial infarction (heart attack).
(ii) If you have recently had a corrective cardiac procedure; for example, coronary artery bypass grafting.
(iii) If you have started new drug therapy and your response to this treatment has not yet been established; for example, beta-blocker therapy for dilated congestive cardiomyopathy.
b. In these situations, we will obtain more evidence 3 months following the event before we evaluate your impairment. However, we will not wait if we have enough information to make a determination or decision based on all of the relevant evidence in your case.
5.
Will we purchase any studies?
In appropriate situations, we will purchase studies necessary to substantiate the diagnosis or to document the severity of your impairment, generally after we have evaluated the medical and other evidence we already have. We will not purchase studies involving exercise testing if there is significant risk involved or if there is another medical reason not to perform the test. We will follow sections 4.00C6, 4.00C7, and 4.00C8 when we decide whether to purchase exercise testing.
6.
What studies will we not purchase?
We will not purchase any studies involving cardiac catheterization, such as coronary angiography, arteriograms, or electrophysiological studies. However, if the results of catheterization are part of the existing evidence we have, we will consider them together with the other relevant evidence. See 4.00C15a.

# C. Using Cardiovascular Test Results
1.
What is an ECG?
a.
ECG
stands for
electrocardiograph
or
electrocardiogram.
An electrocardiograph is a machine that records electrical impulses of your heart on a strip of paper called an electrocardiogram or a
tracing.
To record the ECG, a technician positions a number of
small contacts (or
leads
) on your arms, legs, and across your chest to connect them to the ECG machine. An ECG may be done while you are resting or exercising.
b. The ECG tracing may indicate that you have a heart abnormality. It may indicate that your heart muscle is not getting as much oxygen as it needs (ischemia), that your heart rhythm is abnormal (arrhythmia), or that there are other abnormalities of your heart, such as left ventricular enlargement.
2.
How do we evaluate ECG evidence?
We consider a number of factors when we evaluate ECG evidence:
a. An original or legible copy of the 12-lead ECG obtained at rest must be appropriately dated and labeled, with the standardization inscribed on the tracing. Alteration in standardization of specific leads (such as to accommodate large QRS amplitudes) must be identified on those leads.
(i) Detailed descriptions or computer-averaged signals without original or legible copies of the ECG as described in listing 4.00C2a are not acceptable.
(ii) The effects of drugs or electrolyte abnormalities must be considered as possible noncardiac causes of ECG abnormalities of ventricular repolarization; that is, those involving the ST segment and T wave. If available, the predrug (especially digitalis glycosides) ECG should be submitted.
b. ECGs obtained in conjunction with treadmill, bicycle, or arm exercise tests should meet the following specifications:
(i) ECG reports must include the original calibrated ECG tracings or a legible copy.
(ii) A 12-lead baseline ECG must be recorded in the upright position before exercise.
(iii) A 12-lead ECG should be recorded at the end of each minute of exercise.
(iv) If ECG documentation of the effects of hyperventilation is obtained, the exercise test should be deferred for at least 10 minutes because metabolic changes of hyperventilation may alter the physiologic and ECG-recorded response to exercise.
(v) Post-exercise ECGs should be recorded using a generally accepted protocol consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice.
(vi) All resting, exercise, and recovery ECG strips must have the standardization inscribed on the tracing. The ECG strips should be labeled to indicate the date, the times recorded and the relationship to the stage of the exercise protocol. The speed and grade (treadmill test) or work rate (bicycle or arm ergometric test) should be recorded. The highest level of exercise achieved, heart rate and blood pressure levels during testing, and the reason(s) for terminating the test (including limiting signs or symptoms) must be recorded.
3.
What are exercise tests and what are they used for?
a. Exercise tests have you perform physical activity and record how your cardiovascular system responds. Exercise tests usually involve walking on a treadmill, but other forms of exercise, such as an exercise bicycle or an arm exercise machine, may be used. Exercise testing may be done for various reasons; such as to evaluate the severity of your coronary artery disease or peripheral vascular disease or to evaluate your progress after a cardiac procedure or an acute event, like a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Exercise testing is the most widely used testing for identifying the presence of myocardial ischemia and for estimating maximal aerobic capacity (usually expressed in METs—metabolic equivalents) if you have heart disease.
b. We include exercise tolerance test (ETT) criteria in 4.02B3 (chronic heart failure) and 4.04A (ischemic heart disease). To meet the ETT criteria in these listings, the ETT must be a sign-or symptom-limited test in which you exercise while connected to an ECG until you develop a sign or symptom that indicates that you have exercised as much as is considered safe for you.
c. In 4.12B, we also refer to exercise testing for peripheral vascular disease. In this test, you walk on a treadmill, usually for a specified period of time, and the individual who administers the test measures the effect of exercise on the flow of blood in your legs, usually by using ultrasound. The test is also called an exercise Doppler test. Even though this test is intended to evaluate peripheral vascular disease, it will be stopped for your safety if you develop abnormal signs or symptoms because of heart disease.
d. Each type of test is done in a certain way following specific criteria, called a
protocol.
For our program, we also specify certain aspects of how any exercise test we purchase is to be done. See 4.00C10 and 4.00C17.
4.
Do ETTs have limitations?
An ETT provides an estimate of aerobic capacity for walking on a grade, bicycling, or moving one's arms in an environmentally controlled setting. Therefore, ETT results do not correlate with the ability to perform other types of exertional activities, such as lifting and carrying heavy loads, and do not provide an estimate of the ability to perform activities required for work in all possible work environments or throughout a workday. Also, certain medications (such as beta blockers) and conduction disorders (such as left or right bundle branch blocks) can cause false-negative or false-positive results. Therefore, we must consider the results of an ETT together with all the other relevant evidence in your case record.
5.
How does an ETT with measurement of maximal or peak oxygen uptake VO
2
) differ from other ETTs?
Occasionally, medical evidence
will include the results of an ETT with VO
2
While ETTs without measurement of VO
2
provide only an estimate of aerobic capacity, measured maximal or peak oxygen uptake provides an accurate measurement of aerobic capacity, which is often expressed in METs (metabolic equivalents). The MET level may not be indicated in the report of attained maximal or peak VO
2
testing, but can be calculated as follows: 1 MET = 3.5 milliliters (ml) of oxygen uptake per kilogram (kg) of body weight per minute. For example, a 70 kg (154 lb.) individual who achieves a maximal or peak VO
2
of 1225 ml in 1 minute has attained 5 METs (1225 ml/70 kg/1 min = 17.5 ml/kg/min. 17.5/3.5 = 5 METs).
6.
When will we consider whether to purchase an exercise test?
a. We will consider whether to purchase an exercise test when:
(i) There is a question whether your cardiovascular impairment meets or medically equals the severity of one of the listings, or there is no timely test in the evidence we have (see 4.00C9), and we cannot find you disabled on some other basis; or
(ii) We need to assess your residual functional capacity and there is insufficient evidence in the record to make a determination or decision.
b. We will not purchase an exercise test when we can make our determination or decision based on the evidence we already have.
7.
What must we do before purchasing an exercise test?
a. Before we purchase an exercise test, an MC, preferably one with experience in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease, must review the pertinent history, physical examinations, and laboratory tests that we have to determine whether the test would present a significant risk to you or if there is some other medical reason not to purchase the test (see 4.00C8).
b. If you are under the care of a treating source (see §§ 404.1502 and 416.902) for a cardiovascular impairment, this source has not performed an exercise test, and there are no reported significant risks to testing, we will request a statement from that source explaining why it was not done or should not be done before we decide whether we will purchase the test.
c. The MC, in accordance with the regulations and other instructions on consultative examinations, will generally give great weight to the treating source's opinion about the risk of exercise testing to you and will generally not override it. In the rare situation in which the MC does override the treating source's opinion, the MC must prepare a written rationale documenting the reasons for overriding the opinion.
d. If you do not have a treating source or we cannot obtain a statement from your treating source, the MC is responsible for assessing the risk to exercise testing based on a review of the records we have before purchasing an exercise test for you.
e. We must also provide your records to the medical source who performs the exercise test for review prior to conducting the test if the source does not already have them. The medical source who performs the exercise test has the ultimate responsibility for deciding whether you would be at risk.
8.
When will we not purchase an exercise test or wait before we purchase an exercise test?
a. We will not purchase an exercise test when an MC finds that you have one of the following significant risk factors:
(i) Unstable angina not previously stabilized by medical treatment.
(ii) Uncontrolled cardiac arrhythmias causing symptoms or hemodynamic compromise.
(iii) An implanted cardiac defibrillator.
(iv) Symptomatic severe aortic stenosis.
(v) Uncontrolled symptomatic heart failure.
(vi) Aortic dissection.
(vii) Severe pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary artery systolic pressure greater than 60 mm Hg).
(viii) Left main coronary stenosis of 50 percent or greater that has not been bypassed.
(ix) Moderate stenotic valvular disease with a systolic gradient across the aortic valve of 50 mm Hg or greater.
(x) Severe arterial hypertension (systolic greater than 200 mm Hg or diastolic greater than 110 mm Hg).
(xi) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with a systolic gradient of 50 mm Hg or greater.
b. We also will not purchase an exercise test when you are prevented from performing exercise testing due to another impairment affecting your ability to use your arms and legs.
c. We will not purchase an ETT to document the presence of a cardiac arrhythmia.
d. We will wait to purchase an exercise test until 3 months after you have had one of the following events. This will allow for maximal, attainable restoration of functional capacity.
(i) Acute myocardial infarction.
(ii) Surgical myocardial revascularization (bypass surgery).
(iii) Other open-heart surgical procedures.
(iv) Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with or without stenting.
e. If you are deconditioned after an extended period of bedrest or inactivity and could improve with activity, or if you are in acute heart failure and are expected to improve with treatment, we will wait an appropriate period of time for you to recuperate before we purchase an exercise test.
9.
What do we mean by a “timely” test?
a. We consider exercise test results to be timely for 12 months after the date they are performed, provided there has been no
change in your clinical status that may alter the severity of your cardiovascular impairment.
b. However, an exercise test that is older than 12 months, especially an abnormal one, can still provide information important to our adjudication. For example, a test that is more than 12 months old can provide evidence of ischemic heart disease or peripheral vascular disease, information on decreased aerobic capacity, or information about the duration or onset of your impairment. Such tests can be an important component of the longitudinal record.
c. When we evaluate a test that is more than 12 months old, we must consider the results in the context of all the relevant evidence, including why the test was performed and whether there has been an intervening event or improvement or worsening of your impairment.
d. We will purchase a new exercise test only if we cannot make a determination or decision based on the evidence we have.
10.
How must ETTs we purchase be performed?
a. The ETT must be a sign- or symptom-limited test characterized by a progressive multistage regimen. It must be performed using a generally accepted protocol consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice. A description of the protocol that was followed must be provided, and the test must meet the requirements of 4.00C2b and this section. A radionuclide perfusion scan may be useful for detecting or confirming ischemia when resting ECG abnormalities, medications, or other factors may decrease the accuracy of ECG interpretation of ischemia. (The perfusion imaging is done at the termination of exercise, which may be at a higher MET level than that at which ischemia first occurs. If the imaging confirms the presence of reversible ischemia, the exercise ECG may be useful for detecting the MET level at which ischemia initially appeared.) Exercise tests may also be performed using echocardiography to detect stress-induced ischemia and left ventricular dysfunction (see 4.00C12 and 4.00C13).
b. The exercise test must be paced to your capabilities and be performed following the generally accepted standards for adult exercise test laboratories. With a treadmill test, the speed, grade (incline), and duration of exercise must be recorded for each exercise test stage performed. Other exercise test protocols or techniques should use similar workloads. The exercise protocol may need to be modified in individual cases to allow for a lower initial workload with more slowly graded increments than the standard Bruce protocol.
c. Levels of exercise must be described in terms of workload and duration of each stage; for example, treadmill speed and grade, or bicycle ergometer work rate in kpm/min or watts.
d. The exercise laboratory's physical environment, staffing, and equipment must meet the generally accepted standards for adult exercise test laboratories.
11.
How do we evaluate ETT results?
We evaluate ETT results on the basis of the work level at which the test becomes abnormal, as documented by onset of signs or symptoms and any ECG or imaging abnormalities. The absence of an ischemic response on an ETT alone does not exclude the diagnosis of ischemic heart disease. We must consider the results of an ETT in the context of all of the other evidence in your case record.
12.
When are ETTs done with imaging?
When resting ECG abnormalities preclude interpretation of ETT tracings relative to ischemia, a radionuclide (for example, thallium-201 or technetium-99m) perfusion scan or echocardiography in conjunction with an ETT provides better results. You may have resting ECG abnormalities when you have a conduction defect—for example, Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, left bundle branch block, left ventricular hypertrophy—or when you are taking digitalis or other antiarrhythmic drugs, or when resting ST changes are present. Also, these techniques can provide a reliable estimate of ejection fraction.
13.
Will we purchase ETTs with imaging?
We may purchase an ETT with imaging in your case after an MC, preferably one with experience in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease, has reviewed your medical history and physical examination, any report(s) of appropriate medically acceptable imaging, ECGs, and other appropriate tests. We will consider purchasing an ETT with imaging when other information we have is not adequate for us to assess whether you have severe ventricular dysfunction or myocardial ischemia, there is no significant risk involved (see 4.00C8a), and we cannot make our determination or decision based on the evidence we already have.
14.
What are drug-induced stress tests?
These tests are designed primarily to provide evidence about myocardial ischemia or prior myocardial infarction, but do not require you to exercise. These tests are used when you cannot exercise or cannot exercise enough to achieve the desired cardiac stress. Drug-induced stress tests can also provide evidence about heart chamber dimensions and function; however, these tests do not provide information about your aerobic capacity and cannot be used to help us assess your ability to function. Some of these tests use agents, such as Persantine or adenosine, that dilate the coronary arteries and are used in combination with nuclear agents, such as thallium or technetium (for example, Cardiolyte or Myoview), and a myocardial
scan. Other tests use agents, such as dobutamine, that stimulate the heart to contract more forcefully and faster to simulate exercise and are used in combination with a 2-dimensional echocardiogram. We may, when appropriate, purchase a drug-induced stress test to confirm the presence of myocardial ischemia after a review of the evidence in your file by an MC, preferably one with experience in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease.
15.
How do we evaluate cardiac catheterization evidence?
a. We will not purchase cardiac catheterization; however, if you have had catheterization, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain the report and any ancillary studies. We will consider the quality and type of data provided and its relevance to the evaluation of your impairment. For adults, we generally see two types of catheterization reports: Coronary arteriography and left ventriculography.
b. For coronary arteriography, the report should provide information citing the method of assessing coronary arterial lumen diameter and the nature and location of obstructive lesions. Drug treatment at baseline and during the procedure should be reported. Some individuals with significant coronary atherosclerotic obstruction have collateral vessels that supply the myocardium distal to the arterial obstruction so that there is no evidence of myocardial damage or ischemia, even with exercise. When the results of quantitative computer measurements and analyses are included in your case record, we will consider them in interpreting the severity of stenotic lesions.
c. For left ventriculography, the report should describe the wall motion of the myocardium with regard to any areas of hypokinesis (abnormally decreased motion), akinesis (lack of motion), or dyskinesis (distortion of motion), and the overall contraction of the ventricle as measured by the ejection fraction. Measurement of chamber volumes and pressures may be useful. Quantitative computer analysis provides precise measurement of segmental left ventricular wall thickness and motion. There is often a poor correlation between left ventricular function at rest and functional capacity for physical activity.
16.
What details should exercise Doppler test reports contain?
The reports of exercise Doppler tests must describe the level of exercise; for example, the speed and grade of the treadmill settings, the duration of exercise, symptoms during exercise, and the reasons for stopping exercise if the expected level of exercise was not attained. They must also include the blood pressures at the ankle and other pertinent sites measured after exercise and the time required for the systolic blood pressure to return toward or to the pre-exercise level. The graphic tracings, if available, should also be included with the report. All tracings must be annotated with the standardization used by the testing facility.
17.
How must exercise Doppler tests we purchase be performed?
When we purchase an exercise Doppler test, you must exercise on a treadmill at 2 mph on a 12 percent grade for up to 5 minutes. The reports must include the information specified in 4.00C16. Because this is an exercise test, we must evaluate whether such testing would put you at significant risk, in accordance with the guidance found in 4.00C6, 4.00C7, and 4.00C8.

# D. Evaluating Chronic Heart Failure
1.
What is chronic heart failure (CHF)?
a.
CHF
is the inability of the heart to pump enough oxygenated blood to body tissues. This syndrome is characterized by symptoms and signs of pulmonary or systemic congestion (fluid retention) or limited cardiac output. Certain laboratory findings of cardiac functional and structural abnormality support the diagnosis of CHF. There are two main types of CHF:
(i)
Predominant systolic dysfunction
(the inability of the heart to contract normally and expel sufficient blood), which is characterized by a dilated, poorly contracting left ventricle and reduced ejection fraction (abbreviated EF, it represents the percentage of the blood in the ventricle actually pumped out with each contraction), and
(ii)
Predominant diastolic dysfunction
(the inability of the heart to relax and fill normally), which is characterized by a thickened ventricular muscle, poor ability of the left ventricle to distend, increased ventricular filling pressure, and a normal or increased EF.
b. CHF is considered in these listings as a single category whether due to atherosclerosis (narrowing of the arteries), cardiomyopathy, hypertension, or rheumatic, congenital, or other heart disease. However, if the CHF is the result of primary pulmonary hypertension secondary to disease of the lung (cor pulmonale), we will evaluate your impairment using 3.09, in the respiratory system listings.
2.
What evidence of CHF do we need?
a. Cardiomegaly or ventricular dysfunction must be present and demonstrated by appropriate medically acceptable imaging, such as chest x-ray, echocardiography (M-Mode, 2-dimensional, and Doppler), radionuclide studies, or cardiac catheterization.
(i) Abnormal cardiac imaging showing increased left ventricular end diastolic diameter (LVEDD), decreased EF, increased left atrial chamber size, increased ventricular filling pressures measured at cardiac catheterization, or increased left ventricular wall or septum thickness, provides objective measures of both left ventricular function and structural abnormality in heart failure.
(ii) An LVEDD greater than 6.0 cm or an EF of 30 percent or less measured during a period of stability (that is, not during an episode of acute heart failure) may be associated clinically with systolic failure.
(iii) Left ventricular posterior wall thickness added to septal thickness totaling 2.5 cm or greater with left atrium enlarged to 4.5 cm or greater may be associated clinically with diastolic failure.
(iv) However, these measurements alone do not reflect your functional capacity, which we evaluate by considering all of the relevant evidence. In some situations, we may need to purchase an ETT to help us assess your functional capacity.
(v) Other findings on appropriate medically acceptable imaging may include increased pulmonary vascular markings, pleural effusion, and pulmonary edema. These findings need not be present on each report, since CHF may be controlled by prescribed treatment.
b. To establish that you have
chronic
heart failure, your medical history and physical examination should describe characteristic symptoms and signs of pulmonary or systemic congestion or of limited cardiac output associated with the abnormal findings on appropriate medically acceptable imaging. When an acute episode of heart failure is triggered by a remediable factor, such as an arrhythmia, dietary sodium overload, or high altitude, cardiac function may be restored and a chronic impairment may not be present.
(i) Symptoms of congestion or of limited cardiac output include easy fatigue, weakness, shortness of breath (dyspnea), cough, or chest discomfort at rest or with activity. Individuals with CHF may also experience shortness of breath on lying flat (orthopnea) or episodes of shortness of breath that wake them from sleep (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea). They may also experience cardiac arrhythmias resulting in palpitations, lightheadedness, or fainting.
(ii) Signs of congestion may include hepatomegaly, ascites, increased jugular venous distention or pressure, rales, peripheral edema, or rapid weight gain. However, these signs need not be found on all examinations because fluid retention may be controlled by prescribed treatment.
3.
Is it safe for you to have an ETT, if you have CHF?
The presence of CHF is not necessarily a contraindication to an ETT, unless you are having an acute episode of heart failure. Measures of cardiac performance are valuable in helping us evaluate your ability to do work-related activities. Exercise testing has been safely used in individuals with CHF; therefore, we may purchase an ETT for evaluation under 4.02B3 if an MC, preferably one experienced in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease, determines that there is no significant risk to you. (See 4.00C6 for when we will consider the purchase of an ETT. See 4.00C7-4.00C8 for what we must do before we purchase an ETT and when we will not purchase one.) ST segment changes from digitalis use in the treatment of CHF do not preclude the purchase of an ETT.
4.
How do we evaluate CHF using 4.02?
a. We must have objective evidence, as described in 4.00D2, that you have chronic heart failure.
b. To meet the required level of severity for this listing, your impairment must satisfy the requirements of one of the criteria in A and one of the criteria in B.
c. In 4.02B2, the phrase
periods of stabilization
means that, for at least 2 weeks between episodes of acute heart failure, there must be objective evidence of clearing of the pulmonary edema or pleural effusions and evidence that you returned to, or you were medically considered able to return to, your prior level of activity.
d. Listing 4.02B3c requires a decrease in systolic blood pressure below the baseline level (taken in the standing position immediately prior to exercise) or below any systolic pressure reading recorded during exercise. This is because, normally, systolic blood pressure and heart rate increase gradually with exercise. Decreases in systolic blood pressure below the baseline level that occur during exercise are often associated with ischemia-induced left ventricular dysfunction resulting in decreased cardiac output. However, a blunted response (that is, failure of the systolic blood pressure to rise 10 mm Hg or more), particularly in the first 3 minutes of exercise, may be drug-related and is not necessarily associated with left ventricular dysfunction. Also, some individuals with increased sympathetic responses because of deconditioning or apprehension may increase their systolic blood pressure and heart rate above their baseline level just before and early into exercise. This can be associated with a drop in systolic pressure in early exercise that is not due to left ventricular dysfunction. Therefore, an early decrease in systolic blood pressure must be interpreted within the total context of the test; that is, the presence or absence of symptoms such as lightheadedness, ischemic changes, or arrhythmias on the ECG.

# E. Evaluating Ischemic Heart Disease
1.
What is ischemic heart disease (IHD)? IHD
results when one or more of your coronary arteries is narrowed or obstructed or, in rare situations, constricted due to vasospasm, interfering with the normal flow of blood to your heart muscle (ischemia). The obstruction may be the result of an embolus, a thrombus, or plaque. When heart muscle tissue dies as a result of the reduced blood supply, it is called a myocardial infarction (heart attack).
2.
What causes chest discomfort of myocardial origin?
a. Chest discomfort of myocardial ischemic origin, commonly known as angina pectoris, is usually caused by coronary artery disease (often abbreviated CAD). However, ischemic discomfort may be caused by a noncoronary artery impairment, such as aortic stenosis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, pulmonary hypertension, or anemia.
b. Instead of typical angina pectoris, some individuals with IHD experience atypical angina, anginal equivalent, variant angina, or silent ischemia, all of which we may evaluate using 4.04. We discuss the various manifestations of ischemia in 4.00E3-4.00E7.
3.
What are the characteristics of typical angina pectoris?
Discomfort of myocardial ischemic origin (angina pectoris) is discomfort that is precipitated by effort or emotion and promptly relieved by rest, sublingual nitroglycerin (that is, nitroglycerin tablets that are placed under the tongue), or other rapidly acting nitrates. Typically, the discomfort is located in the chest (usually substernal) and described as pressing, crushing, squeezing, burning, aching, or oppressive. Sharp, sticking, or cramping discomfort is less common. Discomfort occurring with activity or emotion should be described specifically as to timing and usual inciting factors (type and intensity), character, location, radiation, duration, and response to nitrate treatment or rest.
4.
What is atypical angina? Atypical angina
describes discomfort or pain from myocardial ischemia that is felt in places other than the chest. The common sites of cardiac pain are the inner aspect of the left arm, neck, jaw(s), upper abdomen, and back, but the discomfort or pain can be elsewhere. When pain of cardiac ischemic origin presents in an atypical site in the absence of chest discomfort, the source of the pain may be difficult to diagnose. To represent atypical angina, your discomfort or pain should have precipitating and relieving factors similar to those of typical chest discomfort, and we must have objective medical evidence of myocardial ischemia; for example, ECG or ETT evidence or appropriate medically acceptable imaging.
5.
What is anginal equivalent?
Often, individuals with IHD will complain of shortness of breath (dyspnea) on exertion without chest pain or discomfort. In a minority of such situations, the shortness of breath is due to myocardial ischemia; this is called
anginal equivalent.
To represent anginal equivalent, your shortness of breath should have precipitating and relieving factors similar to those of typical chest discomfort, and we must have objective medical evidence of myocardial ischemia; for example, ECG or ETT evidence or appropriate medically acceptable imaging. In these situations, it is essential to establish objective evidence of myocardial ischemia to ensure that you do not have effort dyspnea due to non-ischemic or non-cardiac causes.
6.
What is variant angina?
a.
Variant angina
(Prinzmetal's angina, vasospastic angina) refers to the occurrence of anginal episodes at rest, especially at night, accompanied by transitory ST segment elevation (or, at times, ST depression) on an ECG. It is due to severe spasm of a coronary artery, causing ischemia of the heart wall, and is often accompanied by major ventricular arrhythmias, such as ventricular tachycardia. We will consider variant angina under 4.04 only if you have spasm of a coronary artery in relation to an obstructive lesion of the vessel. If you have an arrhythmia as a result of variant angina, we may consider your impairment under 4.05.
b. Variant angina may also occur in the absence of obstructive coronary disease. In this situation, an ETT will not demonstrate ischemia. The diagnosis will be established by showing the typical transitory ST segment changes during attacks of pain, and the absence of obstructive lesions shown by catheterization. Treatment in cases where there is no obstructive coronary disease is limited to medications that reduce coronary vasospasm, such as calcium channel blockers and nitrates. In such situations, we will consider the frequency of anginal episodes despite prescribed treatment when evaluating your residual functional capacity.
c. Vasospasm that is catheter-induced during coronary angiography is not variant angina.
7.
What is silent ischemia?
a. Myocardial ischemia, and even myocardial infarction, can occur without perception of pain or any other symptoms; when this happens, we call it
silent ischemia.
Pain sensitivity may be altered by a variety of diseases, most notably diabetes mellitus and other neuropathic disorders. Individuals also vary in their threshold for pain.
b. Silent ischemia occurs most often in:
(i) Individuals with documented past myocardial infarction or established angina without prior infarction who do not have chest pain on ETT, but have a positive test with ischemic abnormality on ECG, perfusion scan, or other appropriate medically acceptable imaging.
(ii) Individuals with documented past myocardial infarction or angina who have ST segment changes on ambulatory monitoring (Holter monitoring) that are similar to those that occur during episodes of angina. ST depression shown on the ambulatory recording should not be interpreted as positive for ischemia unless similar depression is also seen during chest pain episodes annotated in the diary that the individual keeps while wearing the Holter monitor.
c. ST depression can result from a variety of factors, such as postural changes and variations in cardiac sympathetic tone. In addition, there are differences in how different Holter monitors record the electrical responses. Therefore, we do not consider the Holter monitor reliable for the diagnosis of silent ischemia except in the situation described in 4.00E7b(ii).
8.
What other sources of chest discomfort are there?
Chest discomfort of nonischemic origin may result from other cardiac impairments, such as pericarditis. Noncardiac impairments may also produce symptoms mimicking that of myocardial ischemia. These impairments include acute anxiety or panic attacks, gastrointestinal tract disorders, such as esophageal spasm, esophagitis, hiatal hernia, biliary tract disease, gastritis, peptic ulcer, and pancreatitis, and musculoskeletal syndromes, such as chest wall muscle spasm, chest wall syndrome (especially after coronary bypass surgery), costochondritis, and cervical or dorsal spine arthritis. Hyperventilation may also mimic ischemic discomfort. Thus, in the absence of documented myocardial ischemia, such disorders should be considered as possible causes of chest discomfort.
9.
How do we evaluate IHD using 4.04?
a. We must have objective evidence, as described under 4.00C, that your symptoms are due to myocardial ischemia.
b. Listing-level changes on the ECG in 4.04A1 are the classically accepted changes of horizontal or downsloping ST depression occurring both during exercise and recovery. Although we recognize that ischemic changes may at times occur only during exercise or recovery, and may at times be upsloping with only junctional ST depression, such changes can be false positive; that is, occur in the absence of ischemia. Diagnosis of ischemia in this situation requires radionuclide or echocardiogram confirmation. See 4.00C12 and 4.00C13.
c. Also in 4.04A1, we require that the depression of the ST segment last for at least 1 minute of recovery because ST depression that occurs during exercise but that rapidly normalizes in recovery is a common false-positive response.
d. In 4.04A2, we specify that the ST elevation must be in non-infarct leads during both exercise and recovery. This is because, in the absence of ECG signs of prior infarction, ST elevation during exercise denotes ischemia, usually severe, requiring immediate termination of exercise. However, if there is baseline ST elevation in association with a prior infarction or ventricular aneurysm, further ST elevation during exercise does not necessarily denote ischemia and could be a false-positive ECG response. Diagnosis of ischemia in this situation requires radionuclide or echocardiogram confirmation. See 4.00C12 and 4.00C13.
e. Listing 4.04A3 requires a decrease in systolic blood pressure below the baseline level (taken in the standing position immediately prior to exercise) or below any systolic pressure reading recorded during exercise. This is the same finding required in 4.02B3c. See 4.00D4d for full details.
f. In 4.04B, each of the three ischemic episodes must require revascularization or be not amenable to treatment.
Revascularization
means angioplasty (with or without stent placement) or bypass surgery. However, reocclusion that occurs after a revascularization procedure but during the same hospitalization and that requires a second procedure during the same hospitalization will not be counted as another ischemic episode. Not amenable means that the revascularization procedure could not be done because of another medical impairment or because the vessel was not suitable for revascularization.
g. We will use 4.04C only when you have symptoms due to myocardial ischemia as described in 4.00E3-4.00E7 while on a regimen of prescribed treatment, you are at risk for exercise testing (see 4.00C8), and we do not have a timely ETT or a timely normal drug-induced stress test for you. See 4.00C9 for what we mean by a timely test.
h. In 4.04C1 the term
nonbypassed
means that the blockage is in a vessel that is potentially bypassable; that is, large enough to be bypassed and considered to be a cause of your ischemia. These vessels are usually major arteries or one of a major artery's major branches. A vessel that has become obstructed again after angioplasty or stent placement and has remained obstructed or is not amenable to another revascularization is considered a nonbypassed vessel for purposes of this listing. When you have had revascularization, we will not use the pre-operative findings to assess the current severity of your coronary artery disease under 4.04C, although we will consider the severity and duration of your impairment prior to your surgery in making our determination or decision.

# F. Evaluating Arrhythmias
1.
What is an arrhythmia?
An
arrhythmia
is a change in the regular beat of the heart. Your heart may seem to skip a beat or beat irregularly, very quickly (tachycardia), or very slowly (bradycardia).
2.
What are the different types of arrhythmias?
a. There are many types of arrhythmias. Arrhythmias are identified by where they occur in the heart (atria or ventricles) and by what happens to the heart's rhythm when they occur.
b. Arrhythmias arising in the cardiac atria (upper chambers of the heart) are called atrial or supraventricular arrhythmias. Ventricular arrhythmias begin in the ventricles
(lower chambers). In general, ventricular arrhythmias caused by heart disease are the most serious.
3.
How do we evaluate arrhythmias using 4.05?
a. We will use 4.05 when you have arrhythmias that are not fully controlled by medication, an implanted pacemaker, or an implanted cardiac defibrillator and you have uncontrolled recurrent episodes of syncope or near syncope. If your arrhythmias are controlled, we will evaluate your underlying heart disease using the appropriate listing. For other considerations when we evaluate arrhythmias in the presence of an implanted cardiac defibrillator, see 4.00F4.
b. We consider
near syncope
to be a period of altered consciousness, since syncope is a loss of consciousness or a faint. It is not merely a feeling of light-headedness, momentary weakness, or dizziness.
c. For purposes of 4.05, there must be a documented association between the syncope or near syncope and the recurrent arrhythmia. The recurrent arrhythmia, not some other cardiac or non-cardiac disorder, must be established as the cause of the associated symptom. This documentation of the association between the symptoms and the arrhythmia may come from the usual diagnostic methods, including Holter monitoring (also called ambulatory electrocardiography) and tilt-table testing with a concurrent ECG. Although an arrhythmia may be a coincidental finding on an ETT, we will not purchase an ETT to document the presence of a cardiac arrhythmia.
4.
What will we consider when you have an implanted cardiac defibrillator and you do not have arrhythmias that meet the requirements of 4.05?
a. Implanted cardiac defibrillators are used to prevent sudden cardiac death in individuals who have had, or are at high risk for, cardiac arrest from life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. The largest group at risk for sudden cardiac death consists of individuals with cardiomyopathy (ischemic or non-ischemic) and reduced ventricular function. However, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias can also occur in individuals with little or no ventricular dysfunction. The shock from the implanted cardiac defibrillator is a unique form of treatment; it rescues an individual from what may have been cardiac arrest. However, as a consequence of the shock(s), individuals may experience psychological distress, which we may evaluate under the mental disorders listings in 12.00ff.
b. Most implantable cardiac defibrillators have rhythm-correcting and pacemaker capabilities. In some individuals, these functions may result in the termination of ventricular arrhythmias without an otherwise painful shock. (The shock is like being kicked in the chest.) Implanted cardiac defibrillators may deliver inappropriate shocks, often repeatedly, in response to benign arrhythmias or electrical malfunction. Also, exposure to strong electrical or magnetic fields, such as from MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), can trigger or reprogram an implanted cardiac defibrillator, resulting in inappropriate shocks. We must consider the frequency of, and the reason(s) for, the shocks when evaluating the severity and duration of your impairment.
c. In general, the exercise limitations imposed on individuals with an implanted cardiac defibrillator are those dictated by the underlying heart impairment. However, the exercise limitations may be greater when the implanted cardiac defibrillator delivers an inappropriate shock in response to the increase in heart rate with exercise, or when there is exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmia.

# G. Evaluating Peripheral Vascular Disease
1.
What is peripheral vascular disease (PVD)?
Generally,
PVD
is any impairment that affects either the arteries (peripheral arterial disease) or the veins (venous insufficiency) in the extremities, particularly the lower extremities. The usual effect is blockage of the flow of blood either from the heart (arterial) or back to the heart (venous). If you have peripheral arterial disease, you may have pain in your calf after walking a distance that goes away when you rest (intermittent claudication); at more advanced stages, you may have pain in your calf at rest or you may develop ulceration or gangrene. If you have venous insufficiency, you may have swelling, varicose veins, skin pigmentation changes, or skin ulceration.
2.
How do we assess limitations resulting from PVD?
We will assess your limitations based on your symptoms together with physical findings, Doppler studies, other appropriate non-invasive studies, or angiographic findings. However, if the PVD has resulted in amputation, we will evaluate any limitations related to the amputation under the musculoskeletal listings, 1.00ff.
3.
What is brawny edema? Brawny edema
(4.11A) is swelling that is usually dense and feels firm due to the presence of increased connective tissue; it is also associated with characteristic skin pigmentation changes. It is not the same thing as pitting edema. Brawny edema generally does not pit (indent on pressure), and the terms are not interchangeable. Pitting edema does not satisfy the requirements of 4.11A.
4.
What is lymphedema and how will we evaluate it?
a.
Lymphedema
is edema of the extremities due to a disorder of the lymphatic circulation; at its worst, it is called elephantiasis. Primary lymphedema is caused by abnormal development of lymph vessels and may be present at birth (congenital lymphedema),
but more often develops during the teens (lymphedema praecox). It may also appear later, usually after age 35 (lymphedema tarda). Secondary lymphedema is due to obstruction or destruction of normal lymphatic channels due to tumor, surgery, repeated infections, or parasitic infection such as filariasis. Lymphedema most commonly affects one extremity.
b. Lymphedema does not meet the requirements of 4.11, although it may medically equal the severity of that listing. We will evaluate lymphedema by considering whether the underlying cause meets or medically equals any listing or whether the lymphedema medically equals a cardiovascular listing, such as 4.11, or a musculoskeletal disorders listing, such as 1.18. If no listing is met or medically equaled, we will evaluate any functional limitations imposed by your lymphedema when we assess your residual functional capacity.
5.
When will we purchase exercise Doppler studies for evaluating peripheral arterial disease (PAD)?
If we need additional evidence of your PAD, we will generally purchase exercise Doppler studies (see 4.00C16 and 4.00C17) when your resting ankle/brachial systolic blood pressure ratio is at least 0.50 but less than 0.80, and only rarely when it is 0.80 or above. We will not purchase exercise Doppler testing if you have a disease that results in abnormal arterial calcification or small vessel disease, but will use your resting toe systolic blood pressure or resting toe/brachial systolic blood pressure ratio. (See 4.00G7c and 4.00G8.) There are no current medical standards for evaluating exercise toe pressures. Because any exercise test stresses your entire cardiovascular system, we will purchase exercise Doppler studies only after an MC, preferably one with experience in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease, has determined that the test would not present a significant risk to you and that there is no other medical reason not to purchase the test (see 4.00C6, 4.00C7, and 4.00C8).
6.
Are there any other studies that are helpful in evaluating PAD?
Doppler studies done using a recording ultrasonic Doppler unit and strain-gauge plethysmography are other useful tools for evaluating PAD. A recording Doppler, which prints a tracing of the arterial pulse wave in the femoral, popliteal, dorsalis pedis, and posterior tibial arteries, is an excellent evaluation tool to compare wave forms in normal and compromised peripheral blood flow. Qualitative analysis of the pulse wave is very helpful in the overall assessment of the severity of the occlusive disease. Tracings are especially helpful in assessing severity if you have small vessel disease related to diabetes mellitus or other diseases with similar vascular changes, or diseases causing medial calcifications when ankle pressure is either normal or falsely high.
7.
How do we evaluate PAD under 4.12?
a. The ankle blood pressure referred to in 4.12A and B is the higher of the pressures recorded from the posterior tibial and dorsalis pedis arteries in the affected leg. The higher pressure recorded from the two sites is the more significant measurement in assessing the extent of arterial insufficiency. Techniques for obtaining ankle systolic blood pressures include Doppler (See 4.00C16 and 4.00C17), plethysmographic studies, or other techniques. We will request any available tracings generated by these studies so that we can review them.
b. In 4.12A, the ankle/brachial systolic blood pressure ratio is the ratio of the systolic blood pressure at the ankle to the systolic blood pressure at the brachial artery; both taken at the same time while you are lying on your back. We do not require that the ankle and brachial pressures be taken on the same side of your body. This is because, as with the ankle pressure, we will use the higher brachial systolic pressure measured. Listing 4.12A is met when your resting ankle/brachial systolic blood pressure ratio is less than 0.50. If your resting ankle/brachial systolic blood pressure ratio is 0.50 or above, we will use 4.12B to evaluate the severity of your PAD, unless you also have a disease causing abnormal arterial calcification or small vessel disease, such as diabetes mellitus. See 4.00G7c and 4.00G8.
c. We will use resting toe systolic blood pressures or resting toe/brachial systolic blood pressure ratios (determined the same way as ankle/brachial ratios, see 4.00G7b) when you have intermittent claudication and a disease that results in abnormal arterial calcification (for example, Monckeberg's sclerosis or diabetes mellitus) or small vessel disease (for example, diabetes mellitus). These diseases may result in misleadingly high blood pressure readings at the ankle. However, high blood pressures due to vascular changes related to these diseases seldom occur at the toe level. While the criteria in 4.12C and 4.12D are intended primarily for individuals who have a disease causing abnormal arterial calcification or small vessel disease, we may also use them for evaluating anyone with PAD.
8.
How are toe pressures measured?
Toe pressures are measured routinely in most vascular laboratories through one of three methods: most frequently, photoplethysmography; less frequently, plethysmography using strain gauge cuffs; and Doppler ultrasound. Toe pressure can also be measured by using any blood pressure cuff that fits snugly around the big toe and is neither too tight nor too loose. A neonatal cuff or a cuff designed for use on fingers or toes can be used in the measurement of toe pressure.
9.
How do we use listing 4.12 if you have had a peripheral graft?
Peripheral grafting serves the same purpose as coronary grafting; that
is, to bypass a narrow or obstructed arterial segment. If intermittent claudication recurs or persists after peripheral grafting, we may purchase Doppler studies to assess the flow of blood through the bypassed vessel and to establish the current severity of the peripheral arterial impairment. However, if you have had peripheral grafting done for your PAD, we will not use the findings from before the surgery to assess the current severity of your impairment, although we will consider the severity and duration of your impairment prior to your surgery in making our determination or decision.

# H. Evaluating Other Cardiovascular Impairments
1.
How will we evaluate hypertension?
Because
hypertension
(high blood pressure) generally causes disability through its effects on other body systems, we will evaluate it by reference to the specific body system(s) affected (heart, brain, kidneys, or eyes) when we consider its effects under the listings. We will also consider any limitations imposed by your hypertension when we assess your residual functional capacity.
2.
How will we evaluate symptomatic congenital heart disease? Congenital heart disease
is any abnormality of the heart or the major blood vessels that is present at birth. Because of improved treatment methods, more children with congenital heart disease are living to adulthood. Although some types of congenital heart disease may be corrected by surgery, many individuals with treated congenital heart disease continue to have problems throughout their lives (symptomatic congenital heart disease). If you have congenital heart disease that results in chronic heart failure with evidence of ventricular dysfunction or in recurrent arrhythmias, we will evaluate your impairment under 4.02 or 4.05. Otherwise, we will evaluate your impairment under 4.06.
3.
What is cardiomyopathy and how will we evaluate it? Cardiomyopathy
is a disease of the heart muscle. The heart loses its ability to pump blood (heart failure), and in some instances, heart rhythm is disturbed, leading to irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias). Usually, the exact cause of the muscle damage is never found (idiopathic cardiomyopathy). There are various types of cardiomyopathy, which fall into two major categories:
Ischemic
and
nonischemic
cardiomyopathy. Ischemic cardiomyopathy typically refers to heart muscle damage that results from coronary artery disease, including heart attacks. Nonischemic cardiomyopathy includes several types: Dilated, hypertrophic, and restrictive. We will evaluate cardiomyopathy under 4.02, 4.04, 4.05, or 11.04, depending on its effects on you.
4.
How will we evaluate valvular heart disease?
We will evaluate valvular heart disease under the listing appropriate for its effect on you. Thus, we may use 4.02, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, or an appropriate neurological listing in 11.00ff.
5.
What do we consider when we evaluate heart transplant recipients?
a. After your heart transplant, we will consider you disabled for 1 year following the surgery because there is a greater likelihood of rejection of the organ and infection during the first year.
b. However, heart transplant patients generally meet our definition of disability before they undergo transplantation. We will determine the onset of your disability based on the facts in your case.
c. We will not assume that you became disabled when your name was placed on a transplant waiting list. This is because you may be placed on a waiting list soon after diagnosis of the cardiac disorder that may eventually require a transplant. Physicians recognize that candidates for transplantation often have to wait months or even years before a suitable donor heart is found, so they place their patients on the list as soon as permitted.
d. When we do a continuing disability review to determine whether you are still disabled, we will evaluate your residual impairment(s), as shown by symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings, including any side effects of medication. We will consider any remaining symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings indicative of cardiac dysfunction in deciding whether medical improvement (as defined in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994) has occurred.
6.
When does an aneurysm have “dissection not controlled by prescribed treatment,” as required under 4.10?
An aneurysm (or bulge in the aorta or one of its major branches) is
dissecting
when the inner lining of the artery begins to separate from the arterial wall. We consider the dissection not controlled when you have persistence of chest pain due to progression of the dissection, an increase in the size of the aneurysm, or compression of one or more branches of the aorta supplying the heart, kidneys, brain, or other organs. An aneurysm with dissection can cause heart failure, renal (kidney) failure, or neurological complications. If you have an aneurysm that does not meet the requirements of 4.10 and you have one or more of these associated conditions, we will evaluate the condition(s) using the appropriate listing.
7.
What is hyperlipidemia and how will we evaluate it? Hyperlipidemia
is the general term for an elevation of any or all of the lipids (fats or cholesterol) in the blood; for example, hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, and hyperlipoproteinemia. These disorders of lipoprotein metabolism and transport can cause defects throughout the body. The effects most likely to interfere with function are those produced by atherosclerosis (narrowing of the arteries) and coronary artery
disease. We will evaluate your lipoprotein disorder by considering its effects on you.
8.
What is Marfan syndrome and how will we evaluate it?
a. Marfan syndrome is a genetic connective tissue disorder that affects multiple body systems, including the skeleton, eyes, heart, blood vessels, nervous system, skin, and lungs. There is no specific laboratory test to diagnose Marfan syndrome. The diagnosis is generally made by medical history, including family history, physical examination, including an evaluation of the ratio of arm/leg size to trunk size, a slit lamp eye examination, and a heart test(s), such as an echocardiogram. In some cases, a genetic analysis may be useful, but such analyses may not provide any additional helpful information.
b. The effects of Marfan syndrome can range from mild to severe. In most cases, the disorder progresses as you age. Most individuals with Marfan syndrome have abnormalities associated with the heart and blood vessels. Your heart's mitral valve may leak, causing a heart murmur. Small leaks may not cause symptoms, but larger ones may cause shortness of breath, fatigue, and palpitations. Another effect is that the wall of the aorta may be weakened and abnormally stretch (aortic dilation). This aortic dilation may tear, dissect, or rupture, causing serious heart problems or sometimes sudden death. We will evaluate the manifestations of your Marfan syndrome under the appropriate body system criteria, such as 4.10, or if necessary, consider the functional limitations imposed by your impairment.

# I. Other Evaluation Issues
1.
What effect does obesity have on the cardiovascular system and how will we evaluate it?
Obesity is a medically determinable impairment that is often associated with disorders of the cardiovascular system. Disturbance of this system can be a major cause of disability if you have obesity. Obesity may affect the cardiovascular system because of the increased workload the additional body mass places on the heart. Obesity may make it harder for the chest and lungs to expand. This can mean that the respiratory system must work harder to provide needed oxygen. This in turn would make the heart work harder to pump blood to carry oxygen to the body. Because the body would be working harder at rest, its ability to perform additional work would be less than would otherwise be expected. Thus, the combined effects of obesity with cardiovascular impairments can be greater than the effects of each of the impairments considered separately. We must consider any additional and cumulative effects of obesity when we determine whether you have a severe cardiovascular impairment or a listing-level cardiovascular impairment (or a combination of impairments that medically equals the severity of a listed impairment), and when we assess your residual functional capacity.
2.
How do we relate treatment to functional status?
In general, conclusions about the severity of a cardiovascular impairment cannot be made on the basis of type of treatment rendered or anticipated. The amount of function restored and the time required for improvement after treatment (medical, surgical, or a prescribed program of progressive physical activity) vary with the nature and extent of the disorder, the type of treatment, and other factors. Depending upon the timing of this treatment in relation to the alleged onset date of disability, we may need to defer evaluation of the impairment for a period of up to 3 months from the date treatment began to permit consideration of treatment effects, unless we can make a determination or decision using the evidence we have. See 4.00B4.
3.
How do we evaluate impairments that do not meet one of the cardiovascular listings?
a. These listings are only examples of common cardiovascular impairments that we consider severe enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your severe impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
b. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairments(s) medically equals a listing. (See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926.) If you have a severe impairment(s) that does not meet or medically equal the criteria of a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. Therefore, we proceed to the fourth and, if necessary, the fifth steps of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920. If you are an adult, we use the rules in §§ 404.1594 or 416.994, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.

# 4.01 Category of Impairments, Cardiovascular System
4.02
Chronic heart failure
while on a regimen of prescribed treatment, with symptoms and signs described in 4.00D2. The required level of severity for this impairment is met when the requirements in
both A and B
are satisfied.
A. Medically documented presence of one of the following:
1. Systolic failure (see 4.00D1a(i)), with left ventricular end diastolic dimensions greater than 6.0 cm or ejection fraction of 30 percent or less during a period of stability (not during an episode of acute heart failure); or
2. Diastolic failure (see 4.00D1a(ii)), with left ventricular posterior wall plus septal
thickness totaling 2.5 cm or greater on imaging, with an enlarged left atrium greater than or equal to 4.5 cm, with normal or elevated ejection fraction during a period of stability (not during an episode of acute heart failure);
AND
B. Resulting in one of the following:
1. Persistent symptoms of heart failure which very seriously limit the ability to independently initiate, sustain, or complete activities of daily living in an individual for whom an MC, preferably one experienced in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease, has concluded that the performance of an exercise test would present a significant risk to the individual; or
2. Three or more separate episodes of acute congestive heart failure within a consecutive 12-month period (see 4.00A3e), with evidence of fluid retention (see 4.00D2b(ii)) from clinical and imaging assessments at the time of the episodes, requiring acute extended physician intervention such as hospitalization or emergency room treatment for 12 hours or more, separated by periods of stabilization (see 4.00D4c); or
3. Inability to perform on an exercise tolerance test at a workload equivalent to 5 METs or less due to:
a. Dyspnea, fatigue, palpitations, or chest discomfort; or
b. Three or more consecutive premature ventricular contractions (ventricular tachycardia), or increasing frequency of ventricular ectopy with at least 6 premature ventricular contractions per minute; or
c. Decrease of 10 mm Hg or more in systolic pressure below the baseline systolic blood pressure or the preceding systolic pressure measured during exercise (see 4.00D4d) due to left ventricular dysfunction, despite an increase in workload; or
d. Signs attributable to inadequate cerebral perfusion, such as ataxic gait or mental confusion.
4.04
Ischemic heart disease
, with symptoms due to myocardial ischemia, as described in 4.00E3-4.00E7, while on a regimen of prescribed treatment (see 4.00B3 if there is no regimen of prescribed treatment), with one of the following:
A. Sign-or symptom-limited exercise tolerance test demonstrating at least one of the following manifestations at a workload equivalent to 5 METs or less:
1. Horizontal or downsloping depression, in the absence of digitalis glycoside treatment or hypokalemia, of the ST segment of at least −0.10 millivolts (−1.0 mm) in at least 3 consecutive complexes that are on a level baseline in any lead other than aVR, and depression of at least −0.10 millivolts lasting for at least 1 minute of recovery; or
2. At least 0.1 millivolt (1 mm) ST elevation above resting baseline in non-infarct leads during both exercise and 1 or more minutes of recovery; or
3. Decrease of 10 mm Hg or more in systolic pressure below the baseline blood pressure or the preceding systolic pressure measured during exercise (see 4.00E9e) due to left ventricular dysfunction, despite an increase in workload; or
4. Documented ischemia at an exercise level equivalent to 5 METs or less on appropriate medically acceptable imaging, such as radionuclide perfusion scans or stress echocardiography.
OR
B. Three separate ischemic episodes, each requiring revascularization or not amenable to revascularization (see 4.00E9f), within a consecutive 12-month period (see 4.00A3e).
OR
C. Coronary artery disease, demonstrated by angiography (obtained independent of Social Security disability evaluation) or other appropriate medically acceptable imaging, and in the absence of a timely exercise tolerance test or a timely normal drug-induced stress test, an MC, preferably one experienced in the care of patients with cardiovascular disease, has concluded that performance of exercise tolerance testing would present a significant risk to the individual, with both 1 and 2:
1. Angiographic evidence showing:
a. 50 percent or more narrowing of a nonbypassed left main coronary artery; or
b. 70 percent or more narrowing of another nonbypassed coronary artery; or
c. 50 percent or more narrowing involving a long (greater than 1 cm) segment of a nonbypassed coronary artery; or
d. 50 percent or more narrowing of at least two nonbypassed coronary arteries; or
e. 70 percent or more narrowing of a bypass graft vessel; and
2. Resulting in very serious limitations in the ability to independently initiate, sustain, or complete activities of daily living.
4.05
Recurrent arrhythmias
, not related to reversible causes, such as electrolyte abnormalities or digitalis glycoside or antiarrhythmic drug toxicity, resulting in uncontrolled (see 4.00A3f), recurrent (see 4.00A3c) episodes of cardiac syncope or near syncope (see 4.00F3b), despite prescribed treatment (see 4.00B3 if there is no prescribed treatment), and documented by resting or ambulatory (Holter) electrocardiography, or by other appropriate medically acceptable testing, coincident with the occurrence of syncope or near syncope (see 4.00F3c).
4.06
Symptomatic congenital heart disease
(cyanotic or acyanotic), documented by appropriate medically acceptable imaging (see 4.00A3d) or cardiac catheterization, with one of the following:
A. Cyanosis at rest, and:
1. Hematocrit of 55 percent or greater; or
2. Arterial O
2
saturation of less than 90 percent in room air, or resting arterial PO
2
of 60 Torr or less.
OR
B. Intermittent right-to-left shunting resulting in cyanosis on exertion (e.g., Eisenmenger's physiology) and with arterial PO
2
of 60 Torr or less at a workload equivalent to 5 METs or less.
OR
C. Secondary pulmonary vascular obstructive disease with pulmonary arterial systolic pressure elevated to at least 70 percent of the systemic arterial systolic pressure.
4.09
Heart transplant.
Consider under a disability for 1 year following surgery; thereafter, evaluate residual impairment under the appropriate listing.
4.10
Aneurysm of aorta or major branches
, due to any cause (e.g., atherosclerosis, cystic medial necrosis, Marfan syndrome, trauma), demonstrated by appropriate medically acceptable imaging, with dissection not controlled by prescribed treatment (see 4.00H6).
4.11
Chronic venous insufficiency
of a lower extremity with incompetency or obstruction of the deep venous system and one of the following:
A. Extensive brawny edema (see 4.00G3) involving at least two-thirds of the leg between the ankle and knee or the distal one-third of the lower extremity between the ankle and hip.
OR
B. Superficial varicosities, stasis dermatitis, and either recurrent ulceration or persistent ulceration that has not healed following at least 3 months of prescribed treatment.
4.12
Peripheral arterial disease
, as determined by appropriate medically acceptable imaging (see 4.00A3d, 4.00G2, 4.00G5, and 4.00G6), causing intermittent claudication (see 4.00G1) and one of the following:
A. Resting ankle/brachial systolic blood pressure ratio of less than 0.50.
OR
B. Decrease in systolic blood pressure at the ankle on exercise (see 4.00G7a and 4.00C16-4.00C17) of 50 percent or more of pre-exercise level and requiring 10 minutes or more to return to pre-exercise level.
OR
C. Resting toe systolic pressure of less than 30 mm Hg (see 4.00G7c and 4.00G8).
OR
D. Resting toe/brachial systolic blood pressure ratio of less than 0.40 (see 4.00G7c).

# 5.00 Digestive Disorders
A.
Which digestive disorders do we evaluate in this body system?
We evaluate digestive disorders that result in severe dysfunction of the liver, pancreas, and gastrointestinal tract (the large, muscular tube that extends from the mouth to the anus, where the movement of muscles, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food) in this body system. Examples of these disorders and the listings we use to evaluate them include chronic liver disease (5.05), inflammatory bowel disease (5.06), and intestinal failure (5.07). We also use this body system to evaluate gastrointestinal hemorrhaging from any cause (5.02), weight loss due to any digestive disorder (5.08), liver transplantation (5.09), small intestine transplantation (5.11), and pancreas transplantation (5.12). We evaluate cancers affecting the digestive system under the listings in 13.00.
B.
What evidence do we need to evaluate your digestive disorder?
1.
General.
To establish that you have a digestive disorder, we need medical evidence about the existence of your digestive disorder and its severity. Medical evidence should include your medical history, physical examination findings, operative reports, and relevant laboratory findings.
2.
Laboratory findings.
We need laboratory reports such as results of imaging (see 5.00B3), endoscopy, and other diagnostic procedures. We may also need clinical laboratory and pathology results.
3.
Imaging
refers to medical imaging techniques, such as x-ray, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, and computerized tomography. The imaging must be consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice as a proper technique to support the evaluation of the disorder.
C.
What is chronic liver disease (CLD), and how do we evaluate it under 5.05?
1.
General.
CLD is loss of liver function with cell necrosis (cell death), inflammation, or scarring of the liver that persists for more than 6 months. Common causes of CLD in adults include chronic infection with hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus, and prolonged alcohol abuse.
a. We will evaluate your signs of CLD, such as jaundice, changes in size of the liver and spleen, ascites, peripheral edema, and altered mental status. We will also evaluate your symptoms of CLD, such as pruritus (itching), fatigue, nausea, loss of appetite, and sleep disturbances when we assess the severity of your impairment(s) and how it affects your ability to function. In the absence of evidence of a chronic liver impairment, episodes of acute liver disease do not meet the requirements of 5.05.
b.
Laboratory findings
of your CLD may include decreased serum albumin, increased International Normalized Ratio (INR), arterial deoxygenation (hypoxemia), increased serum creatinine, oliguria (reduced urine output), or sodium retention. Another laboratory finding that may be included in the
evidence is a liver biopsy. If you have had a liver biopsy, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain the results; however, we will not purchase a liver biopsy.
2.
Manifestations of CLD.
a.
Gastrointestinal hemorrhaging
(5.05A), as a consequence of cirrhosis and high pressure in the liver's portal venous system, may occur from varices (dilated veins in the esophagus or the stomach) or from portal hypertensive gastropathy (abnormal mucosal changes in the stomach). When gastrointestinal hemorrhaging is due to a cause other than CLD, we evaluate it under 5.02. The phrase “consider under a disability for 1 year” in 5.02 and 5.05A does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your impairment(s) continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case.
b.
Ascites or hydrothorax
(5.05B) is a pathologic accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity (ascites) or pleural space (hydrothorax). Ascites or hydrothorax may be diagnosed by removing some of the fluid with needle aspiration (paracentesis or thoracentesis), physical examination, or imaging. The most common causes of ascites are portal hypertension and low serum albumin resulting from CLD. We evaluate other causes of ascites and hydrothorax that are unrelated to CLD, such as congestive heart failure and cancer, under the listings in the affected body systems.
c.
Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP)
(5.05C) is an acute bacterial infection of peritoneal fluid and is most commonly associated with CLD. SBP is diagnosed by laboratory analysis of peritoneal fluid (obtained by paracentesis) that contains a neutrophil count (also called absolute neutrophil count) of at least 250 cells/mm
3
. 5.05C is satisfied with one evaluation documenting peritoneal infection. We evaluate other causes of peritonitis that are unrelated to CLD, such as tuberculosis, malignancy, and perforated bowel, under the listings in the affected body systems.
d.
Hepatorenal syndrome
(5.05D) is renal failure associated with CLD in the absence of underlying kidney pathology. Findings associated with hepatorenal syndrome include elevation of serum creatinine, sodium retention with low urinary sodium excretion, and oliguria. We evaluate renal dysfunction with known underlying kidney pathology, such as glomerulonephritis, tubular necrosis, and renal infections, under the listings in 6.00.
e.
Hepatopulmonary syndrome
(5.05E) is arterial deoxygenation due to intrapulmonary vascular dilation and arteriovenous shunting associated with CLD. Clinical findings of hepatopulmonary syndrome include platypnea (shortness of breath relieved when lying down) and orthodeoxia (low arterial blood oxygen while in the upright position), when presenting in the context of CLD. We evaluate pulmonary dysfunction with known underlying respiratory pathology, such as asthma, pneumonia, and pulmonary infections, under the listings in 3.00.
(i) Under 5.05E1, we require a resting arterial blood gas (ABG) measurement obtained while you are breathing room air; that is, without oxygen supplementation. The ABG report must include the P
a
O
2
value, your name, the date of the test, and either the altitude or both the city and State of the test site.
(ii) We will not purchase the specialized imaging techniques described in 5.05E2; however, if you have had the test(s) at a time relevant to your claim, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain the report.
f.
Hepatic encephalopathy
(5.05F), also known as portosystemic encephalopathy, is a recurrent or chronic neuropsychiatric disorder associated with CLD.
(i) Under 5.05F2, we require documentation of a mental impairment associated with hepatic encephalopathy. A mental impairment can include abnormal behavior, changes in mental status, or an altered state of consciousness. Reports of abnormal behavior may show that you are experiencing delusions, paranoia, or hallucinations. Reports of changes in mental status may show change in sleep patterns, personality or mood changes, poor concentration, or poor judgment or cognitive dysfunction (for example, impaired memory, poor problem-solving ability, or attention deficits). Reports of altered state of consciousness may show that you are experiencing confusion, delirium, or stupor.
(ii) Signs and laboratory findings that document the severity of hepatic encephalopathy when not attributable to other causes may include a “flapping tremor” (asterixis), characteristic abnormalities found on an electroencephalogram (EEG), or abnormal serum albumin or coagulation values. We will not purchase an EEG; however, if you have had this test at a time relevant to your claim, we will make every reasonable effort to obtain the report for the purpose of establishing whether your impairment meets the criteria of 5.05F.
(iii) We will not evaluate acute encephalopathy under 5.05F if it results from conditions other than CLD. For example, we will evaluate acute encephalopathy caused by vascular events under the listings in 11.00 and acute encephalopathy caused by cancer under the listings in 13.00.
3.
SSA Chronic Liver Disease (SSA CLD) score
(5.05G). Listing 5.05G requires two SSA CLD scores, each requiring three or four laboratory values. The “date of the SSA CLD score” is the date of the earliest of the three or four laboratory values used for its calculation. The date of the second SSA CLD
score must be at least 60 days after the date of the first SSA CLD score and both scores must be within the required 12-month period. If you have the two SSA CLD scores required by 5.05G, we will find that your impairment meets the criteria of the listing from at least the date of the first SSA CLD score.
a. We calculate the SSA CLD score using a formula that includes up to four laboratory values: Serum creatinine (mg/dL), total bilirubin (mg/dL), INR, and under certain conditions, serum sodium (mmol/L). The SSA CLD score calculation contains at least one, and sometimes two, parts, as described in (i) and (ii).
(i) The initial calculation is:
SSA CLD
i
=
9.57 × [log
e
(serum creatinine mg/dL)]
+ 3.78 × [log
e
(serum total bilirubin mg/dL)]
+11.2 × [log
e
(INR)]
+ 6.43
rounded to the nearest whole integer.
(ii) If the value from the initial calculation is 11 or below, the SSA CLD score will be the SSA CLD
i
value. If the value from the initial calculation is greater than 11, the SSA CLD score will be re-calculated as:
SSA CLD =
SSA CLD
i
+ 1.32 × (137−serum sodium mmol/L)
−[0.033 × SSA CLD
i
× (137−serum sodium mmol/L)]
(iii) We round the results of your SSA CLD score calculation to the nearest whole integer to arrive at your SSA CLD score.
b. For any SSA CLD score calculation, all of the required laboratory values (serum creatinine, serum total bilirubin, INR, and serum sodium) must have been obtained within a continuous 30-day period.
(i) We round values for serum creatinine (mg/dL), serum total bilirubin (mg/dL), or INR less than 1.0 up to 1.0 to calculate your SSA CLD score.
(ii) We round values for serum creatinine (mg/dL) greater than 4.0 down to 4.0 to calculate your SSA CLD score.
(iii) If there are multiple laboratory values within the 30-day interval for serum creatinine (mg/dL), serum total bilirubin (mg/dL), or INR, we use the
highest
value to calculate your SSA CLD score. We will not use any INR values derived from testing done while you are on anticoagulant treatment in our SSA CLD calculation.
(iv) If there are multiple laboratory values within the 30-day interval for serum sodium (mmol/L), we use the
lowest
value to calculate your SSA CLD score.
(v) If you are in renal failure or on renal dialysis within a week of any serum creatinine test in the period used for the SSA CLD calculation, we will use a serum creatinine value of 4.0, which is the maximum serum creatinine level allowed in the calculation, to calculate your SSA CLD score.
(vi) If your serum sodium is less than 125 mmol/L, we will set your serum sodium to 125 mmol/L for purposes of calculation of the SSA CLD score. If your serum sodium is higher than 137 mmol/L, we will set your serum sodium to 137 mmol/L for purposes of calculation of the SSA CLD score.
c. When we indicate “log
e
” (also abbreviated “ln”) in the formula for the SSA CLD score calculation, we mean the “base e logarithm” or “natural logarithm” of the numerical laboratory value, not the “base 10 logarithm” or “common logarithm” (log) of the laboratory value, and not the actual laboratory value. For example, if a person has laboratory values of serum creatinine 1.4 mg/dL, serum total bilirubin 1.3 mg/dL, INR 1.32, and serum sodium 119 mmol/L, we compute the SSA CLD score as follows:
SSA CLD
i
=
9.57 × [log
e
(serum creatinine 1.4 mg/dL) = 0.336]
+ 3.78 × [log
e
(serum total bilirubin 1.3 mg/dL) = 0.262]
+ 11.2 × [log
e
(INR 1.32) = .278]
+ 6.43
= 3.22 + 0.99 + 3.11 + 6.43
= 13.75, which we round to an SSA CLD
i
score of 14.
Because the SSA CLD
i
score is over 11, we then move to the second step of calculating the SSA CLD:
SSA CLD = 14
+ 1.32 × (137−serum sodium 125 mmol/L)
−[0.033 × SSA CLD
i
14 × (137−serum sodium 125 mmol/L)
= 14 + 15.84−5.54
= 24.3, which we round to an SSA CLD score of 24.
D.
What is inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and how do we evaluate it under 5.06?
1. IBD is a group of inflammatory conditions of the small intestine and colon. The most common IBD disorders are Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Remissions and exacerbations of variable duration are a hallmark of IBD.
2. We evaluate your signs and symptoms of IBD, such as diarrhea, fecal incontinence, rectal bleeding, abdominal pain, fatigue, fever, nausea, vomiting, arthralgia, abdominal tenderness, palpable abdominal mass (usually inflamed loops of bowel), and perianal disease (for example, fissure, fistulas, abscesses, or anal canal stenosis), when we assess the severity of your impairment(s). You may require supplemental daily nutrition due to IBD. There are two forms of supplemental daily nutrition we consider under 5.06B5: enteral nutrition (delivered directly to a part of your digestive system) via a gastrostomy, duodenostomy, or jejunostomy, and parenteral nutrition delivered via a central venous catheter. Enteral tube feedings delivered via nasal or
oral tubes do not satisfy the requirement in 5.06B5.
3. Surgical diversion of the intestinal tract, including ileostomy and colostomy, does not preclude the ability to perform any gainful activity if you are able to maintain adequate nutrition and function of the stoma. However, if you are not able to maintain adequate nutrition, we will evaluate your impairment under 5.08.
4. IBD may also be associated with significant extraintestinal manifestations in a variety of body systems. These include, but are not limited to, involvement of the eye (for example, uveitis, episcleritis, or iritis); hepatobiliary disease (for example, gallstones or primary sclerosing cholangitis); urologic disease (for example, kidney stones or obstructive hydronephrosis); skin involvement (for example, erythema nodosum or pyoderma gangrenosum); or non-destructive inflammatory arthritis. You may also have associated thromboembolic disorders or vascular disease. These manifestations may not correlate with the severity of your IBD. If your impairment does not meet any of the criteria of 5.06, we will consider the effects of your extraintestinal manifestations in determining whether you have an impairment(s) that meets or medically equals another listing, and when we assess your residual functional capacity.
5.
Repeated complications of IBD.
a. Examples of complications of IBD include abscesses, intestinal perforation, toxic megacolon, infectious colitis, pyoderma gangrenosum, ureteral obstruction, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and hypercoagulable state (which may lead to thromboses or embolism). When we evaluate repeated complications of IBD, we consider all relevant information in your case record to determine the effects of your IBD on your ability to function independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis. Factors we consider include, but are not limited to: your symptoms, the frequency and duration of your complications, periods of exacerbation and remission, and the functional effects of your treatment, including the side effects of your medication. Your impairment will satisfy this criterion regardless of whether you have the same kind of complication repeatedly, all different complications, or any other combination of complications; for example, two of the same kind of complication and a different one.
b. To satisfy the requirements described under 5.06C, your IBD must result in repeated complications and marked limitation in one of three areas of functioning: activities of daily living; maintaining social functioning; or completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace. If the complications do not last as long or occur as frequently as required under 5.06C, we will consider whether your IBD medically equals the listing.
c.
Marked
limitation means that the signs and symptoms of your IBD interfere
seriously
with your ability to function. Although we do not require the use of such a scale, “marked” would be the fourth point on a five-point rating scale consisting of no limitation, mild limitation, moderate limitation, marked limitation, and extreme limitation. We do not define “marked” by a specific number of activities of daily living or different behaviors in which your social functioning is impaired, or a specific number of tasks that you are able to complete, but by the nature and overall degree of interference with your functioning. You may have marked limitation when several activities or functions are impaired, or when only one is impaired. Additionally, you need not be totally precluded from performing an activity to have marked limitation, as long as the degree of limitation interferes seriously with your ability to function independently, appropriately, and effectively. The term “marked” does not imply that you must be confined to bed, hospitalized, or in a nursing home.
d.
Activities of daily living
include, but are not limited to, such activities as doing household chores, grooming and hygiene, using a post office, taking public transportation, or paying bills. We will find that you have “marked” limitation in activities of daily living if you have a serious limitation in your ability to maintain a household or take public transportation because of symptoms, such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating, caused by your IBD (including complications of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to perform some self-care activities.
e.
Maintaining social functioning
includes the capacity to interact independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis with others. It includes the ability to communicate effectively with others. We will find that you have “marked” limitation in maintaining social functioning if you have a serious limitation in social interaction on a sustained basis because of symptoms, such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating, or a pattern of exacerbation and remission, caused by your IBD (including complications of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to communicate with close friends or relatives.
f.
Completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace
involves the ability to sustain concentration, persistence, or pace to permit timely completion of tasks commonly found in work settings. We will find that you have “marked” limitation in completing tasks if you have a serious limitation in your ability to sustain concentration or pace adequate to complete work-related tasks because of
symptoms, such as pain, severe fatigue, anxiety, or difficulty concentrating, caused by your IBD (including complications of the disorder) or its treatment, even if you are able to do some routine activities of daily living.
E.
What is intestinal failure, and how do we evaluate it under 5.07?
1.
Intestinal failure
is a condition resulting in gut function below the minimum necessary for the absorption of macronutrients or water and electrolytes, resulting in a requirement for intravenous supplementation (
i.e.,
parenteral nutrition) to maintain health. Examples of conditions that may result in intestinal failure include short bowel syndrome, extensive small bowel mucosal disease, and chronic motility disorders.
2.
Short bowel syndrome
is a malabsorption disorder that occurs when ischemic vascular insults (caused, for example, by volvulus or necrotizing enterocolitis), trauma, or IBD complications require(s) surgical resection of any amount of the small intestine, resulting in chronic malnutrition.
3.
Extensive small bowel mucosal disease
means that the mucosal surface of the small bowel does not efficiently absorb nutrients or loses nutrients. Common causes of small bowel mucosal disease include microvillous inclusion disease and tufting enteropathy.
4.
Chronic motility disorder
refers to a chronic disorder of the propulsion of gut content without fixed obstructions, causing intolerance to oral nutrition and inadequate nutritional intake. This type of disorder may also be known as a chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (CIPO), because the gut dysfunction mimics that of an obstructed intestine, but without evidence of an actual obstruction. Primary CIPO may have an unknown underlying cause. Chronic motility disorders may also result from congenital, neuromuscular, or autoimmune conditions, such as gastroschisis, omphalocele, long segment Hirschprung's disease, Crohn's disease, and mitochondrial disorders.
5. For short bowel syndrome, we require a copy of the operative report that includes details of the surgical findings, or postoperative imaging indicating a resection of the small intestine. If we cannot get one of these reports, we need other medical reports that include details of the surgical findings. For other chronic motility disorders or extensive small bowel mucosal disease, we need medical reports that include details of your intestinal dysfunction. For any impairment evaluated under 5.07, we also need medical documentation that you are dependent on daily parenteral nutrition to provide most of your nutritional requirements.
F.
How do we evaluate weight loss due to any digestive disorder under 5.08?
1. In addition to the impairments specifically mentioned in these listings, other digestive disorders, such as esophageal stricture, pancreatic insufficiency, and malabsorption, may result in significant weight loss. Impairments other than digestive disorders that cause weight loss should be evaluated under the appropriate body system for that impairment. For instance, weight loss as a result of chronic kidney disease should be evaluated under our rules for genitourinary disorders (see 6.00), and weight loss as the result of an eating disorder should be evaluated under our rules for mental disorders (see 12.00). However, if you develop a digestive disorder as the result of your other impairment, we will evaluate the acquired digestive disorder under our rules for digestive disorders. We evaluate weight loss due to any digestive disorder under 5.08 by using the body mass index (BMI).
2. BMI is the ratio of your weight to the square of your height. Calculation and interpretation of the BMI are independent of gender in adults.
a. We calculate BMI using inches and pounds, meters and kilograms, or centimeters and kilograms. We must have measurements of your weight and height without shoes for these calculations.
b. We calculate BMI using one of the following formulas:
English Formula
BMI = [Weight in Pounds/(Height in Inches × Height in Inches)] × 703
Metric Formulas
BMI = Weight in Kilograms/(Height in Meters × Height in Meters)
BMI = [Weight in Kilograms/(Height in Centimeters × Height in Centimeters)] × 10,000
G.
How do we evaluate digestive organ transplantation?
If you receive a liver (5.09), small intestine (5.11), or pancreas (5.12) transplant, we will consider you disabled under the listing for 1 year from the date of the transplant. After that, we evaluate your residual impairment(s) by considering the adequacy of your post-transplant function, the frequency and severity of any rejection episodes you have, complications in other body systems, and adverse treatment effects. People who receive digestive organ transplants generally have impairments that meet our definition of disability before they undergo transplantation. The phrase “consider under a disability for 1 year” in 5.09, 5.11, and 5.12 does not refer to the date on which your disability began, only to the date on which we must reevaluate whether your impairment(s) continues to meet a listing or is otherwise disabling. We determine the onset of your disability based on the facts of your case.
H.
How do we evaluate your digestive disorder if there is no record of ongoing treatment?
If there is no record of ongoing treatment despite the existence of a severe impairment(s), we will assess the severity and duration of your digestive disorder based on the current medical and other evidence in your
case record. If there is no record of ongoing treatment, you may not be able to show an impairment that meets a digestive disorders listing, but your impairment may medically equal a listing, or be disabling based on consideration of your residual functional capacity, age, education, and work experience.
I.
How do we evaluate your digestive disorder if there is evidence establishing a substance use disorder?
If we find that you are disabled and there is medical evidence in your case record establishing that you have a substance use disorder, we will determine whether your substance use disorder is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability. See §§ 404.1535 and 416.935 of this chapter. Digestive disorders resulting from drug or alcohol use are often chronic in nature and will not necessarily improve with cessation in drug or alcohol use.
J.
How do we evaluate digestive disorders that do not meet one of these listings?
1. These listings are only examples of common digestive disorders that we consider severe enough to prevent you from doing any gainful activity. If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of any of these listings, we must also consider whether you have an impairment(s) that satisfies the criteria of a listing in another body system.
2. If you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s) that does not meet a listing, we will determine whether your impairment(s) medically equals a listing. See §§ 404.1526 and 416.926 of this chapter. Digestive disorders may be associated with disorders in other body systems, and we consider the combined effects of multiple impairments when we determine whether they medically equal a listing. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing, you may or may not have the residual functional capacity to engage in substantial gainful activity. We proceed to the fourth step and, if necessary, the fifth step of the sequential evaluation process in §§ 404.1520 and 416.920 of this chapter. We use the rules in §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter, as appropriate, when we decide whether you continue to be disabled.
5.01 Category of Impairments, Digestive Disorders
5.02
Gastrointestinal hemorrhaging from any cause, requiring three blood transfusions
of at least 2 units of blood per transfusion, within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 30 days apart. Consider under a disability for 1 year following the last documented transfusion; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
5.03-5.04 [Reserved]
5.05
Chronic liver disease (CLD)
(see 5.00C) with A, B, C, D, E, F, or G:
A. Hemorrhaging from esophageal, gastric, or ectopic varices, or from portal hypertensive gastropathy (see 5.00C2a), documented by imaging (see 5.00B3); resulting in 1 and 2:
1. Hemodynamic instability indicated by signs such as pallor (pale skin), diaphoresis (profuse perspiration), rapid pulse, low blood pressure, postural hypotension (pronounced fall in blood pressure when arising to an upright position from lying down), or syncope (fainting); and
2. Requiring hospitalization for transfusion of at least 2 units of blood. Consider under a disability for 1 year following the documented transfusion; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).

# OR
B. Ascites or hydrothorax not attributable to other causes (see 5.00C2b), present on two evaluations within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart. Each evaluation must document the ascites or hydrothorax by 1, 2, or 3:
1. Paracentesis; or
2. Thoracentesis; or
3. Imaging or physical examination with a or b:
a. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less; or
b. INR of at least 1.5.

# OR
C. Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (see 5.00C2c) documented by peritoneal fluid containing a neutrophil count of at least 250 cells/mm
3
.

# OR
D. Hepatorenal syndrome (see 5.00C2d) documented by 1, 2, or 3:
1. Serum creatinine elevation of at least 2 mg/dL; or
2. Oliguria with 24-hour urine output less than 500 mL; or
3. Sodium retention with urine sodium less than 10 mEq per liter.

# OR
E. Hepatopulmonary syndrome (see 5.00C2e) documented by 1 or 2:
1. Arterial P
a
O
2
measured by an ABG test, while at rest, breathing room air, less than or equal to:
a. 60 mm Hg, at test sites less than 3,000 feet above sea level; or
b. 55 mm Hg, at test sites from 3,000 through 6,000 feet above sea level; or
c. 50 mm Hg, at test sites over 6,000 feet above sea level; or
2. Intrapulmonary arteriovenous shunting as shown by contrast-enhanced echocardiography or macroaggregated albumin lung perfusion scan.

# OR
F. Hepatic encephalopathy (see 5.00C2f) with documentation of abnormal behavior, cognitive dysfunction, changes in mental
status, or altered state of consciousness (for example, confusion, delirium, stupor, or coma), present on two evaluations within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart and either 1 or 2:
1. History of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) or other surgical portosystemic shunt; or
2. One of the following on at least two evaluations at least 60 days apart within the same consecutive 12-month period as in F:
a. Asterixis or other fluctuating physical neurological abnormalities; or
b. EEG demonstrating triphasic slow wave activity; or
c. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less; or
d. INR of 1.5 or greater.

# OR
G. Two SSA CLD scores (see 5.00C3) of at least 20 within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart. Consider under a disability from at least the date of the first score.
5.06
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
(see 5.00D) documented by endoscopy, biopsy, imaging, or operative findings,
and
demonstrated by A, B, or C:
A. Obstruction of stenotic areas (not adhesions) in the small intestine or colon with proximal dilatation, confirmed by imaging or in surgery, requiring two hospitalizations for intestinal decompression or for surgery, within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart.

# OR
B. Two of the following occurring within a consecutive 12-month period and at least 60 days apart:
1. Anemia with hemoglobin of less than 10.0 g/dL, present on at least two evaluations at least 60 days apart; or
2. Serum albumin of 3.0 g/dL or less, present on at least two evaluations at least 60 days apart; or
3. Clinically documented tender abdominal mass palpable on physical examination with abdominal pain or cramping; or
4. Perianal disease with a draining abscess or fistula; or
5. Need for supplemental daily enteral nutrition via a gastrostomy, duodenostomy, or jejunostomy, or daily parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter.

# OR
C. Repeated complications of IBD (see 5.00D5a), occurring an average of 3 times a year, or once every 4 months, each lasting 2 weeks or more, within a consecutive 12-month period, and marked limitation (see 5.00D5c) in one of the following:
1. Activities of daily living (see 5.00D5d); or
2. Maintaining social functioning (see 5.00D5e); or
3. Completing tasks in a timely manner due to deficiencies in concentration, persistence, or pace (see 5.00D5f).
5.07
Intestinal failure
(see 5.00E) due to short bowel syndrome, chronic motility disorders, or extensive small bowel mucosal disease, resulting in dependence on daily parenteral nutrition via a central venous catheter for at least 12 months.
5.08
Weight loss due to any digestive disorder
(see 5.00F), despite adherence to prescribed medical treatment, with BMI of less than 17.50 calculated on at least two evaluations at least 60 days apart within a consecutive 12-month period.
5.09
Liver transplantation
(see 5.00G). Consider under a disability for 1 year from the date of the transplant; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
5.10 [Reserved]
5.11
Small intestine transplantation
(see 5.00G). Consider under a disability for 1 year from the date of the transplant; after that, evaluate the residual impairment(s).
5.12
Pancreas transplantation
