(c) Determination of amount of income or dual consolidated loss attributable to a separate unit, and income or loss attributable to an interest in a transparent entity.
(1) In general.
(i) Scope and purpose.
(ii) Only items of domestic owner taken into account.
(iii) Separate application.
(2) Foreign branch separate unit.
(i) In general.
(ii) Principles of § 1.882-5.
(iii) Exception where foreign country attributes interest expense solely by reference to books and records.
(3) Hybrid entity separate unit and an interest in a transparent entity.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Interests in certain disregarded entities, partnerships, and grantor trusts owned by a hybrid entity or transparent entity.
(4) Special rules.
(i) Allocation of items between certain tiered separate units and interests in transparent entities.
(A) Foreign branch separate unit.
(B) Hybrid entity separate unit or interest in a transparent entity.
(ii) Combined separate unit.
(iii) Gain or loss on the direct or indirect disposition of a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity.
(A) In general.
(B) Multiple separate units or interests in transparent entities.
(iv) Inclusions on stock.
(v) Foreign currency gain or loss recognized under section 987.
(vi) Recapture of dual consolidated loss.
(d) Foreign tax treatment disregarded.
(e) Items generated or incurred while a dual resident corporation, a separate unit, or a transparent entity.
(f) Assets and liabilities of a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity.
(g) Basis adjustments.
(1) Affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner.
(2) Interests in hybrid entities that are partnerships or interests in partnerships through which a separate unit is owned indirectly.
(i) Scope.
(ii) Determination of basis of partner's interest.
(3) Combined separate units.

# § 1.1503(d)-6 Exceptions to the domestic use limitation rule.
(a) In general.
(1) Scope and purpose.
(2) Absence of foreign affiliate or foreign consolidation regime.
(3) Foreign insurance companies treated as domestic corporations.
(b) Elective agreement in place between the United States and a foreign country.
(1) In general.
(2) Application to combined separate units.
(c) No possibility of foreign use.
(1) In general.
(2) Statement.
(d) Domestic use election.
(1) In general.
(2) No domestic use election available if there is a triggering event in the year the dual consolidated loss is incurred.
(e) Triggering events requiring the recapture of a dual consolidated loss.
(1) Events.
(i) Foreign use.
(ii) Disaffiliation.
(iii) Affiliation.
(iv) Transfer of assets.
(v) Transfer of an interest in a separate unit.
(vi) Conversion to a foreign corporation.
(vii) Conversion to a regulated investment company, a real estate investment trust, or an S corporation.
(viii) Failure to certify.
(ix) Cessation of stand-alone status.
(2) Rebuttal.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Certain asset transfers.
(iii) Reporting.
(iv) Examples.
(f) Triggering event exceptions.
(1) Continuing ownership of assets or interests.
(i) Disaffiliation as a result of a transaction described in section 381.
(ii) Continuing ownership by consolidated group.
(iii) Continuing ownership by unaffiliated dual resident corporation or unaffiliated domestic owner.
(2) Transactions requiring a new domestic use agreement.
(i) Multiple-party events.
(ii) Events resulting in a single consolidated group.
(iii) Requirements.
(A) New domestic use agreement.
(B) Statement filed by original elector.
(3) Certain transfers qualifying for the de minimis exception to foreign use.
(4) Deemed transactions as a result of certain transfers that do not result in a foreign use.
(5) Compulsory transfers.
(6) Subsequent triggering events.
(g) Annual certification reporting requirement.
(h) Recapture of dual consolidated loss and interest charge.
(1) Presumptive rules.
(i) Amount of recapture.
(ii) Interest charge.
(2) Reduction of presumptive recapture amount and presumptive interest charge.
(i) Amount of recapture.
(ii) Interest charge.
(3) Rules regarding multiple-party event exceptions to triggering events.
(i) Scope.
(ii) Original elector and prior subsequent electors not subject to recapture or interest charge.
(iii) Recapture tax amount and required statement.
(A) In general.
(B) Recapture tax amount.
(iv) Tax assessment and collection procedures.
(A) In general.
(B) Collection from original elector and prior subsequent electors; joint and several liability.
(C) Allocation of partial payments of tax.
(D) Refund.
(v) Definition of income tax liability.
(vi) Example.
(4) Computation of taxable income in year of recapture.
(i) Presumptive rule.
(ii) Exception to presumptive rule.
(5) Character and source of recapture income.
(6) Reconstituted net operating loss.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Exception.
(iii) Special rule for recapture following multiple-party event exception to a triggering event.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Termination of domestic use agreement and annual certifications.
(1) Rebuttals, exceptions to triggering events, and recapture.
(2) Termination of ability for foreign use.
(i) In general.
(ii) Statement.
(3) Agreements filed in connection with stand-alone exception.

# § 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
(a) In general.
(b) Presumed facts for examples.
(c) Examples.

# § 1.1503(d)-8 Effective dates.
(a) General rule.
(b) Special rules.
(1) Reduction of term of agreements filed under §§ 1.1503-2A(c)(3), 1.1503-2A(d)(3), 1.1503-2(g)(2)(i), or 1.1503-2T(g)(2)(i).
(2) Reduction of term of agreements filed under §§ 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)(
2
)(
i
) (1992), 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)(
3
)(
i
), or Rev. Proc. 2000-42.
(3) Relief for untimely filings.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Closing agreements.
(iii) Pending requests for relief.
(4) Multiple-party event exception to triggering events.
(5) Basis adjustment rules.
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007; 72 FR 20424, Apr. 23, 2007]
§ 1.1503(d)-1
Definitions, special rules, and filings.
(a)
In general.
This section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8 provide rules concerning the determination and use of dual consolidated losses pursuant to section 1503(d). Paragraph (b) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for a domestic consenting corporation. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for disregarded payment losses. Paragraph (e) of this section provides relief for certain compliance failures due to reasonable cause, and a signature requirement for filings. Paragraph (f) of this section provides an anti-avoidance rule.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8:
(1)
Domestic corporation
means an entity classified as a domestic corporation under section 7701(a)(3) and (4) or otherwise treated as a domestic corporation by the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to, sections 269B, 953(d), 1504(d), and 7874. However, solely for purposes of section 1503(d), the term domestic corporation shall not include a regulated investment company as defined in section 851, a real estate investment trust as defined in section 856, or an S corporation as defined in section 1361.
(2)
Dual resident corporation
means—
(i) A domestic corporation that is subject to an income tax of a foreign country on its worldwide income or on a residence basis. A corporation is taxed on a residence basis if it is taxed as a resident under the laws of the foreign country;
(ii) A foreign insurance company that makes an election to be treated as a domestic corporation pursuant to section 953(d) and is treated as a member of an affiliated group for purposes of chapter 6, even if such company is not subject to an income tax of a foreign country on its worldwide income or on a residence basis. See section 953(d)(3); and
(iii) A domestic consenting corporation (as defined in § 301.7701-3(c)(3)(i) of this chapter), as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(41) for an example illustrating the application of section 1503(d) to a domestic consenting corporation.
(3)
Hybrid entity
means an entity that is not taxable as an association for Federal tax purposes, but is subject to an income tax of a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis.
(4)
Separate unit
—(i)
In general.
The term
separate unit
means either of the following that is carried on or owned, as applicable, directly or indirectly, by a domestic corporation (including a dual resident corporation):
(A) Except to the extent provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, a business operation outside the United States that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1) (foreign branch separate unit).
(B) An interest in a hybrid entity (hybrid entity separate unit).
(ii)
Separate unit combination rule.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, if a domestic owner, or two or
more domestic owners that are members of the same consolidated group, have two or more separate units (individual separate units), then all such individual separate units that are located (in the case of a foreign branch separate unit) or subject to an income tax either on their worldwide income or on a residence basis (in the case of a hybrid entity an interest in which is a hybrid entity separate unit) in the same foreign country shall be treated as one separate unit (combined separate unit). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 1.
Separate units of a foreign insurance company that is a dual resident corporation under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, however, shall not be combined with separate units of any other domestic corporation. Except as specifically provided in this section or §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8, any individual separate unit composing a combined separate unit loses its character as an individual separate unit.
(iii)
Business operations that do not constitute a permanent establishment.
A business operation carried on by a domestic corporation that is not a dual resident corporation shall not constitute a foreign branch separate unit, provided the business operation:
(A) Is not carried on indirectly through a hybrid entity or a transparent entity; and
(B) Is conducted in a country with which the United States has entered into an income tax convention and is not treated as a permanent establishment pursuant to that convention, or is not otherwise subject to tax on a net basis under that convention. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 2.
(iv)
Foreign branch separate units held by dual resident corporations or hybrid entities in the same foreign country.
A foreign branch separate unit may be owned by a dual resident corporation, or through a hybrid entity (an interest in which is a separate unit), even where the foreign branch is located in the same foreign country that subjects such dual resident corporation or hybrid entity to tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis. But see the rule under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section that combines certain same-country hybrid entity separate units and foreign branch separate units. See also § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 1.
(5)
Dual consolidated loss
means—
(i) In the case of a dual resident corporation, and except to the extent provided in § 1.1503(d)-5(b), the net operating loss (as defined in section 172(c) and the related regulations) incurred in a year in which the corporation is a dual resident corporation; and
(ii) In the case of a separate unit, the net loss attributable to the separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-5(c) through (e).
(6)
Subject to tax.
For purposes of determining whether a domestic corporation or another entity is subject to an income tax of a foreign country on its income, the fact that it has no actual income tax liability to the foreign country for a particular taxable year shall not be taken into account.
(7)
Foreign country
includes any U.S. territory (as defined in § 1.1502-1(l)).
(8)
Consolidated group
has the meaning provided in § 1.1502-1(h).
(9)
Domestic owner
means—
(i) A domestic corporation (including a dual resident corporation) that has one or more separate units or interests in a transparent entity; and
(ii) In the case of a combined separate unit, a domestic corporation (including a dual resident corporation) that has one or more individual separate units that are treated as part of the combined separate unit under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.
(10)
Affiliated dual resident corporation
and
affiliated domestic owner
mean a dual resident corporation and a domestic owner, respectively, that is a member of a consolidated group.
(11)
Unaffiliated dual resident corporation
,
unaffiliated domestic corporation
, and
unaffiliated domestic owner
mean a dual resident corporation, domestic corporation, and domestic owner, respectively, that is not a member of a consolidated group.
(12)
Domestic affiliate
means—
(i) A member of an affiliated group, without regard to the exceptions contained in section 1504(b) (other than section 1504(b)(3)) relating to includible corporations;
(ii) A domestic owner;
(iii) A separate unit; or
(iv) An interest in a transparent entity, as defined in paragraph (b)(16) of this section.
(13)
Domestic use.
See § 1.1503(d)-2.
(14)
Foreign use.
See § 1.1503(d)-3.
(15)
Grantor trust
means a trust, any portion of which is treated as being owned by the grantor or another person under subpart E of subchapter J of this chapter.
(16)
Transparent entity
—(i)
In general.
The term
transparent entity
means an entity described in this paragraph (b)(16) where all or a portion of its interests are owned, directly or indirectly, by a domestic corporation. An entity is described in this paragraph (b)(16) if the entity—
(A) Is not taxable as an association for Federal tax purposes;
(B) Is not subject to income tax in a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis; and
(C) Is not a pass-through entity under the laws of the applicable foreign country. For purposes of applying the preceding sentence, the applicable foreign country is the foreign country in which the relevant foreign branch separate unit is located, or the foreign country that subjects the relevant hybrid entity (an interest in which is a separate unit) or dual resident corporation to an income tax either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis.
(ii)
Example.
A U.S. limited liability company (LLC) does not elect to be taxed as an association for Federal tax purposes and is not subject to income tax in a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis. The LLC is owned by a hybrid entity (an interest in which is a separate unit) that is the relevant hybrid entity. Provided the LLC is not treated as a pass-through entity by the applicable foreign country that subjects the relevant hybrid entity to an income tax either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, the LLC would qualify as a transparent entity. See also § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 26.
(17)
Disregarded entity
means an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner, under §§ 301.7701-1 through 301.7701-3 of this chapter, for Federal tax purposes.
(18)
Partnership
means an entity that is classified as a partnership, under §§ 301.7701-1 through 301.7701-3 of this chapter, for Federal tax purposes.
(19)
Indirectly
, when used in reference to ownership, means ownership through a partnership, a disregarded entity, or a grantor trust, regardless of whether the partnership, disregarded entity, or grantor trust is a U.S. person.
(20)
Certification period
means the period of time up to and including the fifth taxable year following the year in which the dual consolidated loss that is the subject of a domestic use agreement (as described in § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(1)) was incurred.
(c)
Treatment of domestic consenting corporation as a dual resident corporation
—(1)
Rule.
A domestic consenting corporation is treated as a dual resident corporation under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section for a taxable year if, on any day during the taxable year, the following requirements are satisfied:
(i) Under the tax law of a foreign country where a specified foreign tax resident is tax resident, the specified foreign tax resident derives or incurs (or would derive or incur) items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of the domestic consenting corporation (because, for example, the domestic consenting corporation is fiscally transparent under such tax law).
(ii) The specified foreign tax resident bears a relationship to the domestic consenting corporation that is described in section 267(b) or 707(b). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(41) for an example illustrating the application of paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this paragraph (c).
(i) The term
fiscally transparent
means, with respect to a domestic consenting corporation or an intermediate entity, fiscally transparent as determined under the principles of § 1.894-1(d)(3)(ii) and (iii), without regard to whether a specified foreign tax resident is a resident of a country that has an income tax treaty with the United States.
(ii) The term
specified foreign tax resident
means a body corporate or other entity or body of persons liable to tax under the tax law of a foreign country as a resident.
(d)
Disregarded payment loss (DPL) rules
—(1)
In general.
The disregarded payment loss rules of this paragraph (d) only apply to a domestic corporation (including a dual resident corporation) that directly or indirectly owns an interest in a disregarded entity, regardless of whether the disregarded entity is domestic or foreign (such a domestic corporation, a
disregarded payment entity owner,
or
DPE owner
). If these rules apply to a DPE owner, then the DPE owner determines disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of its disregarded payment entities (if any) described in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section in accordance with paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section and, in the case of a disregarded payment loss for which a triggering event occurs under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, includes an amount equal to the DPL inclusion amount in gross income and establishes a suspended deduction in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The inclusion required under this paragraph (d)(1) and paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section is included in the taxable year of the DPE owner in which the triggering event occurs, and the corresponding suspended deduction under this paragraph (d)(1) and paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section is established in the subsequent taxable year of the DPE owner. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(42) for an example illustrating the application of the disregarded payment loss rules.
(2)
DPL amounts
—(i)
DPL inclusion amount.
A
DPL inclusion amount
means, with respect to a disregarded payment loss as to which a triggering event occurs during the DPL certification period, an amount equal to the disregarded payment loss. Such amount is reduced (but not below zero) to the extent of the balance in the DPL cumulative register of the disregarded payment entity if the certification requirement under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section is satisfied.
(ii)
Suspended deduction.
With respect to a DPL inclusion amount, a DPE owner establishes a suspended deduction in an amount equal to the DPL inclusion amount. The suspended deduction is allowed as a deduction under the principles of § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6) by treating the suspended deduction as if it were a reconstituted net operating loss that becomes deductible only to the extent of disregarded payment income derived in the taxable year in which the suspended deduction is established or subsequent taxable years (as measured by the disregarded payment entity's DPL cumulative register), provided that the certification requirement under paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section is satisfied.
(iii)
DPL cumulative register.
The term
DPL cumulative register
means, with respect to the disregarded payment entity, an account the balance of which is computed at the end of each foreign taxable year of the entity, and which is—
(A) Increased by the amount of disregarded payment income of the entity for the foreign taxable year, and then, after determining the DPL inclusion amount for the year,
(B) Decreased by the amount of the cumulative register balance that is used under paragraph (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(iv)
Character and source
—(A)
DPL inclusion amount.
A DPE owner's income inclusion for a DPL inclusion amount is, for all U.S. tax purposes, treated as ordinary income, and characterized and sourced, including for purposes of sections 904(d) and 907, in the same manner as if the disregarded payment entity were a foreign corporation and the amount were interest or royalty income paid by the foreign corporation (taking into account, for example, section 904(d)(3) if such foreign corporation would be a controlled foreign corporation). For these purposes, the DPL inclusion amount is considered comprised of interest or royalty income based on the proportion of interest or royalty deductions taken into account, respectively, in computing the disregarded payment loss relative to all the deductions taken into account in computing the disregarded payment loss. Further, for these purposes, a deduction attributable to a structured payment or a deduction with respect to
equity is treated as an interest deduction.
(B)
Suspended deduction.
A DPE owner's deduction with respect to a suspended deduction is, for all U.S. tax purposes, characterized and sourced in the same manner as the income for the DPL inclusion amount to which it relates. If the income from the DPL inclusion amount is assigned to multiple statutory and residual groupings, the deduction is allocated and apportioned to each grouping in the same proportions as the DPL inclusion amount.
(3)
Triggering events.
An event described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section is a triggering event with respect to a disregarded payment loss of a disregarded payment entity.
(i)
Foreign use.
A foreign use of the disregarded payment loss. For this purpose, a foreign use is determined under the principles of § 1.1503(d)-3 (including the exceptions in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)), by treating the disregarded payment loss as a dual consolidated loss, treating the disregarded payment entity as a separate unit (or, in the case of a disregarded payment entity that is a dual resident corporation, by treating the disregarded payment entity as a dual resident corporation), and, in § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1)(i) and (ii), only taking into account a person that is related to the DPE owner of the disregarded payment entity. Thus, for example, a foreign use of a disregarded payment loss occurs if, under a relevant foreign tax law, any portion of the foreign law deduction taken into account in computing the disregarded payment loss is made available (including by reason of a foreign consolidation regime or similar regime, or a sale, merger, or similar transaction) to offset an item of income that, for U.S. tax purposes, is an item of a foreign corporation, but only if such foreign corporation is related to the DPE owner of the disregarded payment entity. When applying the principles of the deemed ordering rule in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(3), items of income or gain are taken into account only to the extent such items are described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D) of this section; thus, for example, such items include items of income that are or would be taken into account in determining the amount of disregarded payment loss or disregarded payment income, and exclude items that are regarded for U.S. tax purposes.
(ii)
Failure to comply with certification requirements.
A failure by the DPE owner of the disregarded payment entity to comply with the certification requirements of paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(4)
Certification requirements.
Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, a DPE owner of a disregarded payment entity is subject to the certification requirements of this paragraph (d)(4) with respect to a disregarded payment loss of the disregarded payment entity.
(i) For its taxable year that includes the date on which the foreign taxable year in which a disregarded payment loss is incurred ends, the DPE owner must attach with its timely filed tax return a certification labeled “Initial Disregarded Payment Loss Certification Under Section 1503(d),” which must contain—
(A) The information set forth in § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(2)(ii) (determined by substituting the phrase “disregarded payment entity” for the phrase “separate unit”);
(B) A statement of the amount of the disregarded payment loss; and
(C) A statement that a foreign use of the disregarded payment loss has not occurred during the DPL certification period.
(ii) During the DPL certification period, for each of its taxable years after the taxable year described in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section that includes a date on which a foreign taxable year ends, the DPE owner must attach with its timely filed tax return a certification labeled “Annual Disregarded Payment Loss Certification Under Section 1503(d)” and satisfying the requirements of this paragraph (d)(4)(ii). Certifications with respect to multiple disregarded payment losses may be combined in a single certification, but each disregarded payment loss must be separately identified. To satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (d)(4)(ii), the certification must—
(A) Identify the disregarded payment loss to which it pertains by setting forth the foreign taxable year in which
the disregarded payment loss was incurred and the amount of such disregarded payment loss;
(B) State that there has been no foreign use of the disregarded payment loss; and
(C) Warrant that arrangements have been made to ensure that there will be no foreign use of the disregarded payment loss and that the DPE owner will be informed of any such foreign use.
(iii) If a disregarded payment entity has a balance in its DPL cumulative register upon a DPL triggering event and the DPE owner includes in gross income a DPL inclusion amount that is less than the amount of the disregarded payment loss, the DPE owner of the disregarded payment entity must attach a statement labeled “Reduction of Disregarded Payment Loss Amount Under Section 1503(d)” to its income tax return for the taxable year in which the triggering event occurs and provide any other information as requested by the Commissioner. The statement must show the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of the disregarded payment entity for each foreign taxable year (other than a foreign taxable year where the entity or branch is not a disregarded payment entity) up to and including the foreign taxable year with respect to which the triggering event occurs.
(iv) If a DPE owner claims an allowed deduction with respect to a suspended deduction, the DPE owner must attach a statement labeled “Release of Suspended Deduction Under Section 1503(d)” to the income tax return for the taxable year in which the deduction is allowed and provide any other information as requested by the Commissioner, including in regulations, forms, instructions or other guidance. The statement must describe the DPE owner's DPL inclusion amount to which the suspended deduction relates and show the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of the disregarded payment entity for each foreign taxable year up to and including the foreign taxable year during which the deduction is allowed.
(5)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this paragraph (d).
(i) The term
disregarded payment entity
means, with respect to a DPE owner, any entity, foreign branch, or dual resident corporation described in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A), (B), (C) or (D) of this section.
(A) A disregarded entity that is a foreign tax resident and related to the DPE owner, provided that the DPE owner directly or indirectly owns interests in the disregarded entity.
(B) A foreign branch of the DPE owner and a foreign branch of an entity that is related to the DPE owner and in which the DPE owner directly or indirectly owns an interest.
(C) An entity that is treated as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes that is a foreign tax resident and related to the DPE owner, provided that the DPE owner directly or indirectly owns an interest in the entity.
(D) The DPE owner itself if it is a dual resident corporation.
(ii) The terms
disregarded payment income
and
disregarded payment loss
have the meanings set forth in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii). For purposes of computing the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of a disregarded payment entity, a DPE owner takes into account the disregarded payment income or disregarded payments loss of each disregarded payment entity for each foreign taxable year that ends with or within its U.S. taxable year and an item is taken into account only if it gives rise to income or a deduction under the relevant foreign tax law during the portion of the foreign taxable year in which the entity or foreign branch is a disregarded payment entity; for purposes of allocating an item to a period, the principles of § 1.1502-76(b) apply. Thus, for example, if a DPE owner with a calendar U.S. taxable year becomes subject to the disregarded payment loss rules for the U.S. taxable year beginning on January 1, 2026, the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of a disregarded payment entity of the DPE owner with a foreign taxable year ending on June 30, 2026, excludes items allocated (under the principles of § 1.1502-76(b)) to the pre-January 1, 2026, portion of that foreign taxable year. Items
taken into account in computing disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss are calculated in the currency used to determine tax under the relevant foreign tax law. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(46) for an example illustrating items that are taken into account in determining disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss.
(A)
Disregarded payment income.
Disregarded payment income means, with respect to a disregarded payment entity and a foreign taxable year of the entity, the excess (if any) of the sum of the items described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D) of this section over the sum of the items described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) of this section.
(B)
Disregarded payment loss.
Subject to the de minimis rule set forth in paragraph (d)(6)(vii) of this section, a disregarded payment loss means, with respect to a disregarded payment entity and a foreign taxable year of the entity, the excess (if any) of the sum of the items described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) of this section over the sum of the items described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D) of this section.
(C)
Items of deduction.
With respect to a disregarded payment entity and a foreign taxable year of the entity, an item is described in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) to the extent that it satisfies all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(C)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section. In addition, an item of a disregarded payment entity described in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A) of this section is described in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) if, under the relevant foreign tax law, it is a deduction with respect to equity (including deemed equity) allowed to the entity in such taxable year (for example, a notional interest deduction) or a deduction for an imputed interest payment with respect to a debt instrument (such as a deduction for an imputed interest payment with respect to an interest-free loan).
(
1
) Under the relevant foreign tax law, the disregarded payment entity is allowed a deduction in such taxable year for the item.
(
2
) The payment, accrual, or other transaction giving rise to the item is disregarded for U.S. tax purposes as a transaction between a disregarded entity and its tax owner or between disregarded entities with the same tax owner (for example, a payment by a disregarded entity to its tax owner or to another disregarded entity owned by its tax owner, a payment from a dual resident corporation or partnership to a disregarded entity it owns, or a payment from the home office of a foreign branch to a disregarded entity the home office owns that is attributable to the foreign branch).
(
3
) If the payment, accrual, or other transaction were regarded for U.S. tax purposes, it would be interest, a structured payment, or a royalty within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12), (b)(5)(ii), or (a)(16), respectively.
(D)
Items of income.
With respect to a disregarded payment entity and a foreign taxable year of the entity, an item is described in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(D) to the extent that it satisfies all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(D)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section.
(
1
) Under the relevant foreign tax law, the disregarded payment entity includes the item in income in such taxable year.
(
2
) The payment, accrual, or other transaction giving rise to the item is disregarded for U.S. tax purposes as a transaction between a disregarded entity and its tax owner or between disregarded entities with the same tax owner (for example, because it is a payment to a disregarded entity from the disregarded entity's tax owner or from another disregarded entity of its tax owner, a payment to a dual resident corporation or partnership from a disregarded entity it owns, or a payment from a disregarded entity to the home office of a foreign branch that is attributable to the foreign branch).
(
3
) If the payment, accrual, or other transaction were regarded for U.S. tax purposes, it would be interest, a structured payment, or a royalty with the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12), (b)(5)(ii), or (a)(16), respectively.
(E)
Translation into U.S. dollars.
The amount of disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss with respect to a foreign taxable year of a disregarded payment entity is translated into U.S. dollars using the yearly average exchange rate (within the meaning
of § 1.987-1(c)(2)) for that foreign taxable year.
(F)
Royalties under pre-August 6, 2024 licenses excluded.
Royalties paid or accrued pursuant to a license agreement entered into before August 6, 2024, are not taken into account when determining the amount of disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss. The preceding sentence ceases to apply with respect to any such agreement upon the significant modification of any terms of the agreement, such as a change in the licensor or licensee or a significant modification of the rights in consideration for which the royalties are paid. In such case, any amounts paid or accrued on or after the date of the significant modification are taken into account when determining the amount of disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss. Termination of a license agreement and re-entry into a license agreement between the same parties and with the same terms (other than the term governing the period covered by the agreement), an extension of the period covered by a license agreement without modification of other terms, or an alteration of a legal right or obligation that occurs by operation of the terms of the license agreement (for example, where the license agreement provides for updating the royalty based on updated transfer pricing studies), will not be considered a significant modification of the first license agreement. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(F), a combined disregarded payment entity is treated as a single licensor or licensee, as the case may be.
(iii) The term
DPL certification period
includes, with respect to a disregarded payment loss, the foreign taxable year in which the disregarded payment loss is incurred, any prior foreign taxable years, and, except as provided in paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section, the 60-month period following the foreign taxable year in which the disregarded payment loss is incurred.
(iv) The term
foreign branch
means a branch (within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(2)) that gives rise to a taxable presence under the tax law of the foreign country where the branch is located.
(v) The term
foreign taxable year
means, with respect to a disregarded payment entity, the entity's taxable year for purposes of a relevant foreign tax law.
(vi) The term
foreign tax resident
means a tax resident (within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(23)(i)) of a foreign country.
(vii) The term
related
has the meaning provided in this paragraph (d)(5)(vii). A person is related to a DPE owner if the person is a related person within the meaning of section 954(d)(3) and the regulations thereunder, determined by treating the person as the “controlled foreign corporation” referred to in that section. In addition, for purposes of determining relatedness, a disregarded entity is treated as a corporation.
(viii) The term
relevant foreign tax law
means, with respect to a disregarded payment entity, any tax law of a foreign country of which the entity is a tax resident (within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(23)(i)) or, in the case of a disregarded payment entity that is a foreign branch, the tax law of the foreign country where the branch is located.
(ix) The term
DPE owner
has the meaning provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and includes any successor to the corporation described paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(6)
Special rules
—(i)
Disregarded payment entity combination rule.
For purposes of this paragraph (d), disregarded payment entities for which the relevant foreign tax law is the same (for example, because the entities are tax residents of the same foreign country) are combined and treated as a combined disregarded payment entity under the principles of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, provided that the entities have the same foreign taxable year and are owned, or interests in which are directly or indirectly owned, either by the same DPE owner or by DPE owners that are members of the same consolidated group. However, this paragraph (d)(6)(i) does not apply with respect to a dual resident corporation treated as a disregarded payment entity pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(i)(D) of
this section. In determining the disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of a combined disregarded payment entity, the principles of § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii) apply. Thus, for example, if multiple individual disregarded payment entities are treated as a combined disregarded payment entity pursuant to this paragraph (d)(6)(i), then the combined disregarded payment entity has either a single amount of disregarded payment income or a single amount of disregarded payment loss.
(ii)
Partial ownership of disregarded payment entity.
If a DPE owner of a disregarded payment entity indirectly owns through a partnership less than all the interests in that disregarded payment entity, then the rules of this paragraph (d) are applied based on the DPE owner's proportionate interest in the disregarded payment entity. In such a case, as to the DPE owner, only a proportionate share of the disregarded payment entity's items of deduction or income are taken into account in computing disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of the entity. In addition, with respect to the disregarded payment loss as so computed, the DPE owner must comply with the certification requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of this section and, upon a triggering event, directly include in gross income an amount equal to the DPL inclusion amount.
(iii)
Termination of DPL certification period.
With respect to a disregarded payment loss of a disregarded payment entity, the DPL certification period does not include any date after the end of the DPE owner's taxable year during which the DPE owner, or a person related to the DPE owner, no longer owns directly or indirectly any of the interests in the disregarded payment entity, or, in the case of a disregarded payment entity that is a foreign branch, substantially all of the assets of the foreign branch. In such a case, the DPE owner ceases to be subject to the rules of paragraph (d) of this section with respect to the disregarded payment loss; thus, for example, after the end of such taxable year the DPE owner is not subject to the certification requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section with respect to the loss, and will not be required to include in gross income the DPL inclusion amount with respect to such loss. The DPL certification period will also terminate with respect to a disregarded payment loss upon a DPE owner's inclusion of the DPL inclusion amount attributable to the disregarded payment loss.
(iv)
Agent for a consolidated group.
If a DPE owner is a member of a consolidated group, see § 1.1502-77 for agent of the group rules (generally treating the common parent as the agent of its consolidated group).
(v)
Coordination with foreign hybrid mismatch rules.
Whether a disregarded payment entity is allowed a deduction under a relevant foreign tax law is determined with regard to hybrid mismatch rules, if any, under the relevant foreign tax law. Thus, for example, if a relevant foreign tax law denies a deduction for an item to prevent a deduction/no-inclusion outcome (that is, a payment that is deductible for the payer jurisdiction and is not included in the ordinary income of the payee), the item is not taken into account for purposes of computing the amount of disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss. For this purpose, the term
hybrid mismatch rules
has the meaning provided in § 1.267A-5(a)(10).
(vi)
DPL inclusion amount and suspended deduction not taken into account for dual consolidated loss purposes.
A DPL inclusion amount included in the gross income of a DPE owner, and any allowed amount of a suspended deduction attributable to a DPL inclusion amount, are not taken into account for purposes of determining the income or dual consolidated loss of the dual resident corporation, or the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to the separate unit, under § 1.1503(d)-5(b) or (c).
(vii)
De minimis rule.
A disregarded payment entity will be deemed to have no disregarded payment loss with respect to a foreign taxable year in which the conditions in paragraphs (d)(6)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section are satisfied.
(A) The items that compose the disregarded payment loss are incurred in
connection with the conduct of an active trade or business (within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-2(d)(2) and (3), but for this purpose treating the disregarded payment entity as the foreign corporation referenced therein) carried on by the disregarded payment entity. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the determination of whether items are incurred in connection with an active trade or business is made under § 1.367(a)-2(d)(5), but for this purpose by treating the property received by the disregarded payment entity pursuant to the arrangement that gave rise to the item (such as cash or the rights to use the intangible property) as the property described in such section.
(B) The amount of the disregarded payment loss is less than the lesser of $3 million or 10 percent of the aggregate amount of all the items of the disregarded payment entity for the foreign taxable year that satisfy the condition described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C)(1) of this section. For this purpose, the items of the disregarded payment entity may include, for example, items that are regarded for both U.S. and foreign tax purposes, or foreign law items that if regarded for U.S. tax purposes would not be treated as interest, a structured payment, or a royalty within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12), (b)(5)(ii), or (a)(16), respectively.
(e)
Special rules for filings.
—(1)
Reasonable cause exception.
A person that is permitted or required to file an election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation, or other information pursuant to this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8, that fails to make such filing in a timely manner, shall be considered to have satisfied the timeliness requirement with respect to such filing if the person is able to demonstrate, to the Area Director, Field Examination, Small Business/Self Employed or the Director of Field Operations, Large and Mid-Size Business (Director) having jurisdiction of the taxpayer's tax return for the taxable year, that such failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. In determining whether the taxpayer has reasonable cause, the Director shall consider whether the taxpayer acted reasonably and in good faith. In general, the taxpayer must demonstrate that it exercised ordinary care and prudence in meeting its tax obligations but nonetheless did not comply with the prescribed duty within the prescribed time. Whether the taxpayer acted reasonably and in good faith will be determined after considering all the facts and circumstances. The Director shall notify the person in writing within 120 days of the filing if it is determined that the failure to comply was not due to reasonable cause, or if additional time will be needed to make such determination. For this purpose, the 120-day period shall begin on the date the taxpayer is notified in writing that the request has been received and assigned for review. If, once such period commences, the taxpayer is not again notified within 120 days, then the taxpayer shall be deemed to have established reasonable cause. The reasonable cause exception of this paragraph (d) shall only apply if, once the person becomes aware of its failure to file the election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation or other information in a timely manner, the person complies with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Requirements for reasonable cause relief
—(i)
Time of submission.
Requests for reasonable cause relief will only be considered if once the person becomes aware of the failure to file the election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation or other information, the person attaches all the documents that should have been filed, as well as a written statement setting forth the reasons for the failure to timely comply, to an amended return that amends the return to which the documents should have been attached pursuant to the rules of this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8.
(ii)
Notice requirement.
In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the taxpayer must provide a copy of the amended return and all required attachments to the Director as follows:
(A) If the taxpayer is under examination for any taxable year when the taxpayer requests relief, the taxpayer must provide a copy of the amended return and attachments to the personnel conducting the examination.
(B) If the taxpayer is not under examination for any taxable year when the taxpayer requests relief, the taxpayer must provide a copy of the amended return and attachments to the Director having jurisdiction of the taxpayer's return.
(3)
Signature requirement.
When an election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation, or other information is required pursuant to this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8 to be attached to and filed by the due date (including extensions) of a U.S. tax return and signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the return, the attachment and filing of an unsigned copy is considered to satisfy such requirement, provided the taxpayer retains the original in its records in the manner specified by § 1.6001-1(e).
(f)
Anti-avoidance rule
—(1)
In general.
Except to the extent provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, if a transaction, series of transactions, plan, or arrangement is engaged in with a view to avoid the purposes of the rules in this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8, then appropriate adjustments will be made. A transaction, series of transactions, plan, or arrangement (including an arrangement to reflect, or not reflect, items on books and records) is engaged in with a view to avoid the purposes of this section and §§ 1.1503(d)-2 through 1.1503(d)-8 only if it results in a double deduction or similar outcome (for example, by putting an item of deduction or loss that composes (or would compose) a dual consolidated loss to both a domestic use and a foreign use (determined under §§ 1.1503(d)-2 and 1.1503(d)-3, respectively) or putting a foreign law item of deduction or loss that is disregarded for U.S. tax purposes to a foreign use). The appropriate adjustments may include adjustments to disregard the transaction, series of transactions, plan, or arrangement, or adjustments to modify the items that are taken into account for purposes of determining the income or dual consolidated loss of or attributable to a dual resident corporation or a separate unit, or for purposes of determining income or loss of an interest in a transparent entity under § 1.1503(d)-5. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(43) through (45) for examples illustrating the application of this paragraph (f).
(2)
Exceptions.
The anti-avoidance rule in paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply to a reduction or elimination of a dual consolidated loss solely by reason of intercompany transactions as described in § 1.1502-13, items of income arising from the ownership of stock and taken into account under § 1.1503(d)-5(b)(1) or (c)(4)(iv), or the attribution to a hybrid entity separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity of items that have not been and will not be reflected on the entity's books and records. The anti-avoidance rule in paragraph (f)(1) of this section also does not apply with respect to the application of the dual consolidated loss rules to the GloBE Model Rules, or to cause a foreign use of a dual consolidated loss to occur solely in a period before the taxable year in which such loss was incurred.
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19855, Apr. 8, 2020; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106878, Dec. 30, 2024; T.D. 10026, 90 FR 3014, Jan. 14, 2025]
§ 1.1503(d)-2
Domestic use.
A
domestic use
of a dual consolidated loss shall be deemed to occur when the dual consolidated loss is made available to offset, directly or indirectly, the income of a domestic affiliate (other than the dual resident corporation or separate unit that, in each case, incurred the dual consolidated loss) in the taxable year in which the dual consolidated loss is recognized, or in any other taxable year, regardless of whether the dual consolidated loss offsets income under the income tax laws of a foreign country and regardless of whether any income that the dual consolidated loss may offset in the foreign country is, has been, or will be subject to tax in the United States. A domestic use shall be deemed to occur in the year the dual consolidated loss is included in the computation of the taxable income of a consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or an unaffiliated domestic owner, as applicable, even if no tax benefit results from such inclusion in that year. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 2
through
4.
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007]
§ 1.1503(d)-3
Foreign use.
(a)
Foreign use
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a
foreign use
of a dual consolidated loss shall be deemed to occur when any portion of a deduction or loss taken into account in computing the dual consolidated loss is made available under the income tax laws of a foreign country to offset or reduce, directly or indirectly, any item that is recognized as income or gain under such laws and that is, or would be, considered under U.S. tax principles to be an item of—
(i) A foreign corporation as defined in section 7701(a)(3) and (a)(5); or
(ii) A direct or indirect owner of an interest in a hybrid entity, provided such interest is not a separate unit. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 5
through
10
and
37.
(2)
Indirect use
—(i)
General rule.
Except to the extent provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, an item of deduction or loss shall be deemed to be made available indirectly if—
(A) One or more items are taken into account as deductions or losses for foreign tax purposes, but do not give rise to corresponding items of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes; and
(B) The item or items described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section have the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss available for a foreign use as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(ii)
Exception.
The general rule provided in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section shall not apply if the consolidated group, unaffiliated domestic owner, or unaffiliated dual resident corporation demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, that the item or items described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section that gave rise to the indirect foreign use—
(A) Were not incurred, or taken into account, with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d). For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(ii), an item incurred or taken into account as interest for foreign tax purposes, but disregarded for U.S. tax purposes, shall be deemed to have been incurred, or taken into account, with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d). Similarly, for purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(ii), an item incurred or taken into account as the result of an instrument that is treated as debt for foreign tax purposes and equity for U.S. tax purposes, shall be deemed to have been incurred, or taken into account, with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d); and
(B) Were incurred, or taken into account, in the ordinary course of the dual resident corporation's or separate unit's trade or business.
(iii)
Examples.
See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 6
through
8.
(3)
Deemed use.
See paragraph (e) of this section for a deemed foreign use pursuant to the mirror legislation rule.
(b)
Available for use.
A foreign use shall be deemed to occur in the year in which any portion of a deduction or loss taken into account in computing the dual consolidated loss is made available for an offset described in paragraph (a) of this section, regardless of whether it actually offsets or reduces any items of income or gain under the income tax laws of the foreign country in such year, and regardless of whether any of the items that may be so offset or reduced are regarded as income under U.S. tax principles.
(c)
Exceptions
—(1)
In general.
Paragraphs (c)(2) through (9) of this section provide exceptions to the general definition of foreign use set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. These exceptions only apply to a foreign use that occurs solely as a result of the conditions or circumstances described therein, and do not apply if a foreign use occurs in any other case or by any other means. For example, the exception under paragraph (c)(4) of this section (regarding certain interests in partnerships or grantor trusts) shall not apply where the item of deduction or loss is made available through a foreign consolidation regime (or similar method). In addition, these exceptions do not apply when attempting to demonstrate that no foreign use of a dual consolidated loss can occur in any other year by any means under § 1.1503(d)-6(c), (e)(2)(i), or (j)(2). But see § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(ii), which takes into account the exception under paragraph
(c)(7) of this section for purposes of rebutting certain asset transfers.
(2)
Election or merger required to enable foreign use.
Where the laws of a foreign country provide an election that would enable a foreign use, a foreign use shall be considered to occur only if the election is made. Similarly, where the laws of a foreign country would enable a foreign use through a sale, merger, or similar transaction, a foreign use shall be considered to occur only if the sale, merger, or similar transaction occurs.
(3)
Deemed ordering rule
—(i)
In general.
This paragraph (c)(3) applies if the losses or deductions composing the dual consolidated loss are made available under the laws of a foreign country both in part to offset income or gain that would constitute a foreign use and in part to offset income or gain that would not constitute a foreign use. In such a case, the losses or deductions shall be deemed to be made available to offset the income or gain that does not constitute a foreign use, to the extent of such income or gain, before being considered to be made available to offset the income or gain that does constitute a foreign use. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)(11) (
Example 11
).
(ii)
Limitation.
For purposes of applying this paragraph (c)(3), items of income or gain are taken into account only to the extent such items are or would be taken into account in determining the amount of income or dual consolidated loss under § 1.1503(d)-5(b) or (c). Thus, for example, this paragraph does not apply with respect to items of income or gain that are otherwise disregarded for U.S. tax purposes. But see § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(3)(i), which provides that when applying the principles of this rule for purposes of the disregarded payment loss rules, the only relevant items are those that are or would be taken into account for purposes of determining a disregarded payment loss or disregarded payment income.
(4)
Certain interests in partnerships or grantor trusts
—(i)
General rule.
Except to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, this paragraph (c)(4)(i) applies to a dual consolidated loss attributable to an interest in a hybrid entity partnership or a hybrid entity grantor trust, or to a separate unit owned indirectly through a partnership or grantor trust. In such a case, a foreign use will not be considered to occur if the foreign use is solely the result of another person's ownership of an interest in the partnership or grantor trust, as applicable, and the allocation or carry forward of an item of deduction or loss composing such dual consolidated loss as a result of such ownership. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 13.
(ii)
Combined separate unit.
This paragraph applies to a dual consolidated loss attributable to a combined separate unit that includes an individual separate unit to which paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section would apply, but for the application of the separate unit combination rule provided under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In such a case, paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section shall apply to the portion of the dual consolidated loss of such combined separate unit that is attributable, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-5(c) through (e), to the individual separate unit (otherwise described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section) that is a component of the combined separate unit. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 14.
(iii)
Reduction in interest.
The exception under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section shall not apply if, at any time following the year in which the dual consolidated loss is incurred, there is more than a
de minimis
reduction in the domestic owner's percentage interest in the partnership or grantor trust, as applicable, as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. In such a case, a foreign use shall be deemed to occur at the time the reduction in interest exceeds the
de minimis
amount. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 13.
(5)
De minimis reduction of an interest in a separate unit
—(i)
General rule.
This paragraph applies to a
de minimis
reduction of a domestic owner's interest in a separate unit (including an interest described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section). Except to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, no foreign use shall be considered to occur with respect to a dual consolidated loss as a result of an item of deduction or loss composing such dual consolidated loss being made available solely as a result of a reduction in the
domestic owner's interest in the separate unit, as provided under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 5.
(ii)
Limitations.
The exception provided in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section shall not apply if—
(A) During any 12-month period the domestic owner's percentage interest in the separate unit is reduced by 10 percent or more, as determined by reference to the domestic owner's interest at the beginning of the 12-month period; or
(B) At any time the domestic owner's percentage interest in the separate unit is reduced by 30 percent or more, as determined by reference to the domestic owner's interest at the end of the taxable year in which the dual consolidated loss was incurred.
(iii)
Reduction in interest.
The following rules apply for purposes of paragraphs (c)(4) and (5) of this section. A reduction of a domestic owner's interest in a separate unit shall include a reduction resulting from another person acquiring through sale, exchange, contribution, or other means, an interest in the foreign branch or hybrid entity, as applicable. A reduction may occur either directly or indirectly, including through an interest in a partnership, a disregarded entity, or a grantor trust through which a separate unit is carried on or owned. In the case of an interest in a hybrid entity partnership or a separate unit all or a portion of which is carried on or owned through a partnership, an interest in such separate unit (or portion of such separate unit) is determined by reference to the owner's interest in the profits or the capital in the separate unit. In the case of an interest in a hybrid entity grantor trust or a separate unit all or a portion of which is carried on or owned through a grantor trust, an interest in such separate unit (or portion of such separate unit) is determined by reference to the domestic owner's share of the assets and liabilities of the separate unit.
(iv)
Examples and coordination with exceptions to other triggering events.
See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 5
,
13
, and
14.
See also § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(3) and (f)(5) for rules that coordinate the de minimis exception to foreign use with exceptions to other triggering events described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1), and provide an exception to foreign use following certain compulsory transfers.
(6)
Certain asset basis carryovers.
No foreign use shall be considered to occur with respect to a dual consolidated loss solely as a result of items of deduction or loss composing such dual consolidated loss being made available as a result of the transfer of assets of a dual resident corporation or separate unit, provided—
(i) Such items of loss and deduction are made available solely as a result of the basis of the transferred assets being determined, under foreign law, in whole or in part by reference to the basis of the assets in the hands of the dual resident corporation or separate unit;
(ii) The aggregate adjusted basis, as determined under U.S. tax principles, of all the assets so transferred during any 12-month period is less than 10 percent of the aggregate adjusted basis, as determined under U.S. tax principles, of all the dual resident corporation's or separate unit's assets, determined by reference to the assets held at the beginning of such 12-month period; and
(iii) The aggregate adjusted basis, as determined under U.S. tax principles, of all the assets so transferred at any time is less than 30 percent of the aggregate adjusted basis, as determined under U.S. tax principles, of all the dual resident corporation's or separate unit's assets, determined by reference to the assets held at the end of the taxable year in which the dual consolidated loss was generated. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 15.
(7)
Assumption of certain liabilities
—(i)
In general.
Except to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section, no foreign use shall be considered to occur with respect to any dual consolidated loss solely as a result of an item of deduction or loss composing such dual consolidated loss being made available following the assumption of liabilities of a dual resident corporation or separate unit, provided such availability arises solely as the result of an item of deduction or loss incurred with respect to, or as a result of, such liabilities. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 16.
(ii)
Ordinary course limitation.
Paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section shall apply only to the extent the liabilities assumed were incurred in the ordinary course of the dual resident corporation's, or separate unit's, trade or business. For purposes of this paragraph, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of a trade or business shall include debt incurred to finance the trade or business of the dual resident corporation or separate unit.
(8)
Multiple-party events.
This paragraph applies to a transaction that qualifies for the triggering event exception described in § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(i)(B) where the acquiring unaffiliated domestic corporation or consolidated group owns, directly or indirectly, more than 90 percent, but less than 100 percent, of the transferred assets or interests immediately after the transaction. In such a case, no foreign use shall be considered to occur with respect to a dual consolidated loss of the dual resident corporation or separate unit whose assets or interests were acquired, solely as a result of the less than 10 percent direct or indirect ownership of the acquired assets or interests by persons other than the acquiring unaffiliated domestic corporation or consolidated group, as applicable, immediately after the transaction. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 37.
(9)
Additional guidance.
The Commissioner may provide, by guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, that certain events or transactions do or do not result in a foreign use. Such guidance may also modify the triggering events and rebuttals described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e), and the exceptions thereto under § 1.1503(d)-6(f), as appropriate.
(d)
Ordering rules for determining the foreign use of losses.
If the laws of a foreign country provide for the foreign use of losses of a dual resident corporation or a separate unit, but do not provide applicable rules for determining the order in which such losses are used in a taxable year, the following rules shall apply:
(1) Any net loss, or net income, that the dual resident corporation or separate unit has in a taxable year shall first be used to offset net income, or loss, recognized by its affiliates in the same taxable year before any carry over of its losses is considered to be used to offset any income from the taxable year.
(2) If under the laws of the foreign country the dual resident corporation or separate unit has losses from different taxable years, it shall be deemed to use first the losses which would not constitute a triggering event that would result in the recapture of a dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h). Thereafter, it shall be deemed to use first the losses from the most recent taxable year from which a loss may be carried forward or back for foreign law purposes.
(3) Where different losses or deductions (for example, capital losses and ordinary losses) of a dual resident corporation or separate unit incurred in the same taxable year are available for foreign use, the different losses shall be deemed to be used on a pro rata basis. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 12.
(e)
Mirror legislation rule
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section and § 1.1503(d)-6(b) (relating to agreements entered into between the United States and a foreign country), a foreign use shall be deemed to occur if the income tax laws of a foreign country would deny any opportunity for the foreign use of the dual consolidated loss in the year in which the dual consolidated loss is incurred (mirror legislation), determined by assuming that such foreign country had recognized the dual consolidated loss in such year, for any of the following reasons:
(i) The dual resident corporation or separate unit that incurred the loss is subject to income taxation by another country (for example, the United States) on its worldwide income or on a residence basis.
(ii) The loss may be available to offset income (other than income of the dual resident corporation or separate unit) under the laws of another country (for example, the United States).
(iii) The deductibility of any portion of a deduction or loss taken into account in computing the dual consolidated loss depends on whether such amount is deductible under the laws of another country (for example, the
United States). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 17
through
19.
(2)
Stand-alone exception
—(i)
In general.
This paragraph (e)(2) applies if, in the absence of the mirror legislation described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, no item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss of such dual resident corporation or separate unit would otherwise be available for a foreign use in the taxable year in which such dual consolidated loss is incurred. This determination is made without regard to whether such availability is limited by election (or other similar procedure). However, for purposes of this paragraph (e)(2)(i), no item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation or separate unit is considered to be made available for foreign use solely because the laws of a foreign country would enable a foreign use through a sale, merger, or similar transaction (provided no such sale, merger, or similar transaction actually occurs). In such a case, no foreign use shall be considered to occur pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section with respect to the dual consolidated loss, provided the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section are satisfied. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 17
through
19.
(ii)
Stand-alone domestic use agreement.
In order to qualify for the exception under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner, as the case may be, must enter into a domestic use agreement in accordance with the provisions of § 1.1503(d)-6(d) and, in addition, must include the following items in such domestic use agreement:
(A) A statement that the document is also being submitted under the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(B) A certification that the conditions of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section are satisfied during the taxable year in which the dual consolidated loss is incurred.
(C) An agreement to include with each annual certification required under § 1.1503(d)-6(g), a certification that the conditions described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section are satisfied during the taxable year of each such certification.
(iii)
Termination of stand-alone domestic use agreement.
This paragraph (e)(2)(iii) applies to a consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner, as the case may be, that entered into a domestic use agreement pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, with respect to a dual consolidated loss, and which subsequently makes an election pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(b) (relating to agreements entered into between the United States and a foreign country) with respect to such dual consolidated loss. In such a case, the dual consolidated loss shall be subject to the election under § 1.1503(d)-6(b) (and any related agreements, representations and conditions), and the domestic use agreement entered into pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section shall terminate and have no further effect.
(3)
Exception for domestic consenting corporations.
Paragraph (e)(1) of this section will not apply so as to deem a foreign use of a dual consolidated loss incurred by a domestic consenting corporation that is a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(iii).
(4)
Exception for disregarded payment losses.
Paragraph (e)(1) of this section will not apply so as to deem a foreign use of a disregarded payment loss (within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(B)).
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19855, Apr. 8, 2020; T.D. 10026, 90 FR 3018, Jan. 14, 2025]
§ 1.1503(d)-4
Domestic use limitation and related operating rules.
(a)
Scope.
This section prescribes rules that apply when the general limitation on the domestic use of a dual consolidated loss under paragraph (b) of this section applies. Thus, the rules of this section do not apply when an exception to the domestic use limitation applies (for example, as a result of a domestic use election under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)). In general, when the domestic use limitation applies, the dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation or separate unit is subject to the separate return limitation year (SRLY) provisions of § 1.1502-
21(c), as modified under this section. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules that determine the effect of a dual consolidated loss on a consolidated group, an unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or an unaffiliated domestic owner. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules that eliminate dual consolidated losses following certain transactions or events. Paragraph (e) of this section contains provisions that prevent dual consolidated losses from offsetting tainted income. Finally, paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for computing foreign tax credits.
(b)
Limitation on domestic use of a dual consolidated loss.
Except as provided in § 1.1503(d)-6, the domestic use of a dual consolidated loss is not permitted. See § 1.1503(d)-2 for the definition of a domestic use. See also § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 2
through
4.
(c)
Effect of a dual consolidated loss on a consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner.
For any taxable year in which a dual resident corporation or separate unit has a dual consolidated loss that is subject to the domestic use limitation of paragraph (b) of this section, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Dual resident corporation.
This paragraph (c)(1) applies to a dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation. The unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or consolidated group that includes the dual resident corporation, shall compute its taxable income (or loss), or consolidated taxable income (or loss), respectively, without taking into account those items of deduction and loss that compose the dual resident corporation's dual consolidated loss. For this purpose, the dual consolidated loss shall be treated as composed of a pro rata portion of each item of deduction and loss of the dual resident corporation taken into account in calculating the dual consolidated loss. The dual consolidated loss is subject to the limitations on its use contained in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and, subject to such limitations, may be carried over or back for use in other taxable years as a separate net operating loss carryover or carryback of the dual resident corporation arising in the year incurred. If the dual resident corporation owns a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity, the limitations contained in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall apply to the dual resident corporation as if the separate unit or interest in a transparent entity were a separate domestic corporation that filed a consolidated return with the unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or with the consolidated group of the affiliated dual resident corporation, as applicable.
(2)
Separate unit.
This paragraph (c)(2) applies to a dual consolidated loss that is attributable to a separate unit. The unaffiliated domestic owner of a separate unit, or the consolidated group of an affiliated domestic owner of a separate unit, shall compute its taxable income (or loss) or consolidated taxable income (or loss), respectively, without taking into account those items of deduction and loss that compose the separate unit's dual consolidated loss. For this purpose, the dual consolidated loss shall be treated as composed of a pro rata portion of each item of deduction and loss of the separate unit taken into account in calculating the dual consolidated loss. The dual consolidated loss is subject to the limitations contained in paragraph (c)(3) of this section as if the separate unit to which the dual consolidated loss is attributable were a separate domestic corporation that filed a consolidated return with its unaffiliated domestic owner or with the consolidated group of its affiliated domestic owner, as applicable. Subject to such limitations, the dual consolidated loss may be carried over or back for use in other taxable years as a separate net operating loss carryover or carryback of the separate unit arising in the year incurred. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 29
and
38.
(3)
SRLY limitation.
The dual consolidated loss shall be treated as a loss incurred by the dual resident corporation or separate unit in a separate return limitation year and shall be subject to all of the limitations of § 1.1502-21(c) (SRLY limitation), subject to the following modifications—
(i) Notwithstanding § 1.1502-1(f)(2)(i), the SRLY limitation is applied to any dual consolidated loss of a common
parent that is a dual resident corporation, or any dual consolidated loss attributable to a separate unit of a common parent;
(ii) The SRLY limitation is applied without regard to § 1.1502-21(c)(2) (SRLY subgroup limitation) and 1.1502-21(g) (overlap with section 382);
(iii) For purposes of calculating the general SRLY limitation under § 1.1502-21(c)(1)(i), the calculation of aggregate consolidated taxable income shall only include items of income, gain, deduction, and loss generated—
(A) In the case of a hybrid entity separate unit, in years in which the hybrid entity (an interest in which is a separate unit) is taxed as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or as a resident in the same foreign country in which it was so taxed during the year in which the dual consolidated loss was generated; and
(B) In the case of a foreign branch separate unit, in years in which the foreign branch qualified as a separate unit in the same foreign country in which it so qualified during the year in which the dual consolidated loss was generated;
(iv) For purposes of calculating the general SRLY limitation under § 1.1502-21(c)(1)(i), the calculation of aggregate consolidated taxable income shall not include any amount included in income pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h) (relating to the recapture of a dual consolidated loss).
(v) The SRLY limitation is applied without regard to § 1.1502-21(c)(1)(i)(E) (section 172(a) limitation applicable to a SRLY member).
(4)
Items of a dual consolidated loss used in other taxable years.
A pro rata portion of each item of deduction or loss that composes the dual consolidated loss shall be considered to be used when the dual consolidated loss is used in other taxable years. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 29
and
38.
(5)
Reconstituted net operating losses.
For additional rules and limitations that apply to reconstituted net operating losses, see § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6).
(d)
Elimination of a dual consolidated loss after certain transactions
—(1)
General rule.
In general, a dual resident corporation has a net operating loss (and, therefore, a dual consolidated loss) only if it sustains such loss, or succeeds to such loss as a result of acquiring the assets of a corporation that sustained the loss in a transaction described in section 381(a). Similarly, a net loss generally is attributable to a separate unit of a domestic owner (and therefore is a dual consolidated loss) only if the domestic owner incurs the deductions or losses, or succeeds to such deductions or losses in a transaction described in section 381(a). Except as provided in § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(iii), section 1503(d) and these regulations do not alter these general rules. Thus, the provisions of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8 generally do not cause a corporation to have a dual consolidated loss if it did not sustain (or inherit) the loss. Instead, these regulations either eliminate a dual consolidated loss that a corporation sustained (or inherited), or prevent the carryover of a dual consolidated loss under section 381 that would ordinarily occur, as a result of certain transactions.
(i)
Transactions described in section 381(a).
This paragraph (d)(1)(i) applies to a dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation, or of a domestic owner attributable to a separate unit, that is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of paragraph (b) of this section. In such a case, and except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the dual consolidated loss shall not carry over to another corporation in a transaction described in section 381(a) and, as a result, shall be eliminated. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 20.
(ii)
Cessation of separate unit status.
This paragraph (d)(1)(ii) applies when a separate unit of an unaffiliated domestic owner ceases to be a separate unit of its domestic owner, or when a separate unit of an affiliated domestic owner ceases to be a separate unit with respect to its domestic owner and all other members of the affiliated domestic owner's consolidated group. In such a case, and except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, a dual consolidated loss of the domestic owner attributable to such separate unit, that is subject to the domestic use limitation of paragraph (b) of this section, shall be eliminated. For purposes of
this paragraph (d)(1)(ii), a separate unit may cease to be a separate unit if, for example, such separate unit is terminated, dissolved, liquidated, sold, or otherwise disposed of. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 21.
(2)
Exceptions
—(i)
Certain section 368(a)(1)(F) reorganizations.
Paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section (relating to transactions described in section 381(a)) shall not apply to a dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation that undergoes a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(F) in which the resulting corporation is a domestic corporation. In such a case, the dual consolidated loss of the resulting corporation continues to be subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, applied as if the resulting corporation incurred the dual consolidated loss.
(ii)
Acquisition of a dual resident corporation by another dual resident corporation.
If a dual resident corporation transfers its assets to another dual resident corporation in a transaction described in section 381(a), and the transferee corporation is a resident of (or is taxed on its worldwide income by) the same foreign country of which the transferor was a resident (or was taxed on its worldwide income), then paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section shall not apply with respect to dual consolidated losses of the dual resident corporation, and income generated by the transferee may be offset by the carryover dual consolidated losses of the transferor, subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section applied as if the transferee incurred the dual consolidated loss. Dual consolidated losses of the transferor dual resident corporation may not, however, be used to offset income attributable to separate units or interests in transparent entities owned by the transferee because they constitute domestic affiliates under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(12)(iii) and (iv), respectively.
(iii)
Acquisition of a separate unit by a domestic corporation.
This paragraph (d)(2)(iii) provides exceptions to the general rules in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section that eliminate the dual consolidated loss of a domestic owner that is attributable to a separate unit following certain transactions or events. The exceptions set forth in this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) shall only apply where a domestic owner transfers its assets to a domestic corporation (transferee corporation) in a transaction described in section 381(a).
(A)
Acquisition by a corporation that is not a member of the same consolidated group
—(1)
General rule.
If a domestic owner transfers either an individual separate unit or a combined separate unit to a transferee corporation that is not a member of its consolidated group in a transaction described in section 381(a), and the transferee corporation, or a member of the transferee's consolidated group, is a domestic owner of the transferred separate unit immediately after the transaction, then paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not apply to such transfer. In addition, income of the transferee, or a member of the transferee's consolidated group, that is attributable to the transferred separate unit may be offset by the carryover dual consolidated losses of the transferor domestic owner that were attributable to the transferred separate unit, subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section applied as if the transferee incurred the dual consolidated losses and such losses were attributable to the separate unit. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 21.
(
2
)
Combination with separate units of the transferee.
This paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A)(
2
) applies to a transaction described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A)(
1
) of this section where the transferred separate unit is combined with another separate unit of the transferee, or another member of the transferee's consolidated group, immediately after the transfer as provided under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In such a case, income generated by the transferee, or another member of the transferee's consolidated group, that is attributable to the combined separate unit may be offset by the carryover dual consolidated losses that were attributable to the transferred separate unit, subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, applied as if the transferee incurred the dual consolidated losses and such losses were attributable to the combined separate unit.
(B)
Acquisition by a member of the same consolidated group.
If an affiliated domestic owner transfers its assets to another member of its consolidated group in a transaction described in section 381(a), and the transferee corporation or another member of such consolidated group is a domestic owner of the separate unit to which the dual consolidated loss was attributable, then paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not apply. In addition, income generated by the transferee that is attributable to the transferred separate unit may be offset by the carryover dual consolidated losses that were attributable to the transferred separate unit, subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, applied as if the transferee incurred the dual consolidated losses and such losses were attributable to the separate unit. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 21.
(iv)
Special rules for foreign insurance companies.
See § 1.1503(d)-6(a) for additional limitations that apply where the transferor is a foreign insurance company that is a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(ii).
(e)
Special rule denying the use of a dual consolidated loss to offset tainted income
—(1)
In general.
Dual consolidated losses incurred by a dual resident corporation that are subject to the domestic use limitation rule under paragraph (b) of this section shall not be used to offset income it earns after it ceases to be a dual resident corporation to the extent that such income is tainted income.
(2)
Tainted income
—(i)
Definition.
For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the term
tainted income
means—
(A) Income or gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of tainted assets; and
(B) Income derived as a result of holding tainted assets.
(ii)
Income presumed to be derived from holding tainted assets.
In the absence of evidence establishing the actual amount of income that is attributable to holding tainted assets, the portion of a corporation's income in a particular taxable year that is treated as tainted income derived as a result of holding tainted assets shall be an amount equal to the corporation's taxable income for the year (other than income described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the fair market value of all tainted assets acquired by the corporation (determined at the time such assets were so acquired) and the denominator of which is the fair market value of the total assets owned by the corporation at the end of such taxable year. To establish the actual amount of income that is attributable to holding tainted assets, documentation must be attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, the domestic corporation's tax return or the consolidated tax return of an affiliated group of which it is a member, as the case may be, for the taxable year in which the income is generated. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 22.
(3)
Tainted assets defined.
For purposes of paragraph (e)(2) of this section, tainted assets are any assets acquired by a domestic corporation in a nonrecognition transaction, as defined in section 7701(a)(45), any assets otherwise transferred to the corporation as a contribution to capital, or any assets otherwise received from a separate unit or a transparent entity owned by such domestic corporation, at any time during the three taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year in which the corporation ceases to be a dual resident corporation or at any time thereafter.
(4)
Exceptions.
Income derived from assets acquired by a domestic corporation shall not be subject to the limitation described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and in addition shall not be treated as tainted assets as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, if—
(i) For the taxable year in which the assets were acquired, the corporation did not have a dual consolidated loss (or a carryforward of a dual consolidated loss to such year); or
(ii) The assets were acquired as replacement property in the ordinary course of business.
(f)
Computation of foreign tax credit limitation.
If a dual consolidated loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule under paragraph (b) of this section, the consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner shall compute
its foreign tax credit limitation by applying the limitations of paragraph (c) of this section. Thus, the items constituting the dual consolidated loss are not taken into account until the year in which such items are absorbed.
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9927, 85 FR 67988, Oct. 27, 2020]

# Editorial Note:
By T.D. 9927, 85 FR 67988, Oct. 27, 2020, § 1.1503(d)-4 was amended; however, a portion of the amendment could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 1.1503(d)-5
Attribution of items and basis adjustments.
(a)
In general.
This section provides rules for determining the amount of income or dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation. This section also provides rules for determining the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to a separate unit, as well as the income or loss attributable to an interest in a transparent entity. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules with respect to dual resident corporations. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules with respect to separate units and interests in transparent entities. These determinations are required for various purposes under section 1503(d). For example, it is necessary for purposes of applying the domestic use limitation rule under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) to a dual consolidated loss, and for determining the extent to which a dual consolidated loss is available to offset income as provided under § 1.1503(d)-4(c). These determinations are also necessary for purposes of determining whether the amount subject to recapture may be reduced pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2). Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules with respect to the foreign tax treatment of items. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules regarding the treatment of items where a dual resident corporation, separate unit, or transparent entity only qualified as such during a portion of a taxable year. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for determining the assets and liabilities of a separate unit. Finally, paragraph (g) of this section provides rules for making basis adjustments to stock of certain members of a consolidated group and to certain interests in partnerships. The rules in this section apply for purposes of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-7.
(b)
Determination of amount of income or dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of determining whether a dual resident corporation has income or a dual consolidated loss for the taxable year, and except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the dual resident corporation shall compute its income or dual consolidated loss taking into account only those items of income, gain, deduction, and loss from such year (including any items recognized by such corporation as a result of an election under section 338). In the case of an affiliated dual resident corporation, such calculation shall be made in accordance with the rules set forth in the regulations under section 1502 governing the computation of consolidated taxable income. See also paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(2)
Exceptions.
For purposes of determining the income or dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation, the following shall not be taken into account—
(i) Any net capital loss of the dual resident corporation;
(ii) Any carryover or carryback losses; or
(iii) Any items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity of the dual resident corporation.
(c)
Determination of amount of income or dual consolidated loss attributable to a separate unit, and income or loss attributable to an interest in a transparent entity
—(1)
In general
—(i)
Scope and purpose.
Paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section apply for purposes of determining the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to a separate unit, and the income or loss attributable to an interest in a transparent entity, for the taxable year. In the case of an affiliated domestic owner, this determination shall be made in accordance with the rules set forth in the regulations under section 1502 governing the computation of consolidated taxable income. These rules apply solely for purposes of section 1503(d).
(ii)
Only items of domestic owner taken into account.
The computation made under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section shall be made using only those existing items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of the separate unit's or transparent entity's domestic owner (or owners, in the case of certain combined separate units), as determined for U.S. tax purposes. These items must be translated into U.S. dollars (if necessary) at the appropriate exchange rate provided under section 989(b), as modified by regulations. The computation shall be made as if the separate unit or interest in a transparent entity were a domestic corporation, using items that are attributable to the separate unit or interest in a transparent entity. However, for purposes of making this computation, net capital losses, and carryover or carryback losses, of the domestic owner shall not be taken into account. Items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are otherwise disregarded for U.S. tax purposes shall not be regarded or taken into account for purposes of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 6
and
23
through
25.
(iii)
Separate application.
The attribution rules of this section shall apply separately to each separate unit or interest in a transparent entity. Thus, an item of income, gain, deduction, or loss shall not be considered attributable to more than one separate unit or interest in a transparent entity. In addition, for purposes of this section items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity shall not offset items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of another separate unit or interest in a transparent entity. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 24.
See also the separate unit combination rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii).
(2)
Foreign branch separate unit
—(i)
In general.
Except to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, for purposes of determining the items of income, gain, deduction (other than interest), and loss of a domestic owner that are attributable to the domestic owner's foreign branch separate unit, the principles of section 864(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5), as set forth in § 1.864-4(c), and §§ 1.864-5 through 1.864-7, shall apply. The principles apply without regard to limitations imposed on the effectively connected treatment of income, gain, or loss under the trade or business safe harbors in section 864(b) and the limitations for treating foreign source income as effectively connected under section 864(c)(4)(D). Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, for purposes of determining the domestic owner's interest expense that is attributable to a foreign branch separate unit, the principles of § 1.882-5, as modified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, shall apply. When applying the principles of section 864(c) (as modified by this paragraph) and § 1.882-5 (as modified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section), the foreign branch separate unit's domestic owner shall be treated as a foreign corporation, the foreign branch separate unit shall be treated as a trade or business within the United States, and the other assets of the domestic owner shall be treated as assets that are not U.S. assets.
(ii)
Principles of § 1.882-5.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the principles of § 1.882-5 shall be applied, subject to the following modifications—
(A) Except as otherwise provided in this section, only the assets, liabilities, and interest expense of the domestic owner shall be taken into account in the § 1.882-5 formula;
(B) Except as provided under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, a taxpayer may use the alternative tax book value method under § 1.861-9(i) for purposes of determining the value of its U.S. assets pursuant to § 1.882-5(b)(2) and its worldwide assets pursuant to § 1.882-5(c)(2);
(C) For purposes of determining the value of a U.S. asset pursuant to § 1.882-5(b)(2), and worldwide assets pursuant to § 1.882-5(c)(2), the taxpayer must use the same methodology under § 1.861-9T(g) (that is, tax book value, alternative tax book value, or fair market value) that the taxpayer uses for purposes of allocating and apportioning interest expense for the taxable year under section 864(e);
(D) Asset values shall be determined pursuant to § 1.861-9T(g)(2); and
(E) For purposes of determining the step-two U.S. connected liabilities, the
amounts of worldwide assets and liabilities under § 1.882-5(c)(2)(iii) and (iv) must be determined in accordance with U.S. tax principles, rather than substantially in accordance with U.S. tax principles.
(iii)
Exception where foreign country attributes interest expense solely by reference to books and records.
The principles of § 1.882-5 shall not apply if the foreign country in which the foreign branch separate unit is located determines, for purposes of computing taxable income (or loss) of a permanent establishment or branch of a nonresident corporation under the laws of the foreign country, the interest expense of the foreign branch separate unit by taking into account only the items of interest expense reflected on the foreign branch separate unit's books and records. In such a case, only those items of the domestic owner's interest expense reflected on the foreign branch separate unit's books and records (as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section), adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, shall be attributable to the foreign branch separate unit. This paragraph shall not apply where the foreign country does not use a method of attributing interest based solely on the interest that is reflected on the books and records. For example, this paragraph does not apply if the foreign country uses a method for attributing interest expense similar to § 1.882-5 or that set forth in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Report on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments, Part II (Banks), December 2006. See
http://www.oecd.org.
(3)
Hybrid entity separate unit and an interest in a transparent entity
—(i)
General rule.
This paragraph (c)(3) applies to determine the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of a domestic owner that are attributable to a hybrid entity separate unit, or an interest in a transparent entity, of such domestic owner. Except to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the domestic owner's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss are attributable to the extent they are reflected on the books and records of the hybrid entity or transparent entity, as applicable, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 23
through
26.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), the term “books and records” has the meaning provided under § 1.989(a)-1(d). The treatment of items for foreign tax purposes, including under any type of foreign anti-deferral regime, is not relevant for purposes of determining whether items are reflected on the books and records of the entity, or for purposes of making adjustments to such items to conform to U.S. tax principles. The method described in the second sentence of this paragraph shall not apply to the extent that the Commissioner determines that booking practices are employed with a principal purpose of avoiding the principles of section 1503(d), including inconsistently treating the same or similar items of income, gain, deduction, and loss. In such a case, the Commissioner may reallocate the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss between or among a domestic owner, its hybrid entities, its transparent entities (and interests therein), its separate units, or any other entity, as applicable, in a manner consistent with the principles of section 1503(d) and which properly reflects income (or loss).
(ii)
Interests in certain disregarded entities, partnerships, and grantor trusts owned by a hybrid entity or transparent entity.
This paragraph (c)(3)(ii) applies if a hybrid entity or transparent entity to which paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section applies owns, directly or indirectly (other than through a hybrid entity or transparent entity), an interest in an entity that is treated as a disregarded entity, partnership, or grantor trust for U.S. tax purposes, but is not a hybrid entity or a transparent entity. For example, the rules of this paragraph would apply when a hybrid entity holds an interest in a limited partnership created in the United States and, for both U.S. and foreign tax purposes the entity is considered a partnership. In such a case, and except to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are reflected on the books and records of such disregarded entity, partnership or grantor trust, as determined under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, shall be treated as being reflected on the
books and records of the hybrid entity or transparent entity for purposes of applying paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 26.
(4)
Special rules.
The following special rules shall apply for purposes of attributing items to separate units or interests in transparent entities under this section:
(i)
Allocation of items between certain tiered separate units and interests in transparent entities
—(A)
Foreign branch separate unit.
This paragraph (c)(4)(i) applies where a hybrid entity or transparent entity owns directly or indirectly (other than through a hybrid entity or a transparent entity), a foreign branch separate unit. For purposes of determining items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of the domestic owner that are attributable to the domestic owner's foreign branch separate unit described in the preceding sentence, only items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to the domestic owner's interest in the hybrid entity, or transparent entity, as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, shall be taken into account. Further, only assets, liabilities, and activities of the domestic owner's interest in the hybrid entity or the transparent entity shall be taken into account under paragraph (c)(2) of this section when applying the principles of 864(c)(2), (c)(4), (c)(5) (as set forth in § 1.864-4(c), and §§ 1.864-5 through 1.864-7), and § 1.882-5 (as modified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 25
and
26.
(B)
Hybrid entity separate unit or interest in a transparent entity.
For purposes of determining items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to a hybrid entity separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, such items shall not be taken into account to the extent they are attributable to a foreign branch separate unit pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 25
and
26.
(ii)
Combined separate unit.
If two or more individual separate units defined in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i) are treated as one combined separate unit pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to the combined separate unit shall be determined as follows:
(A) Items of income, gain, deduction, and loss are first attributed to each individual separate unit without regard to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), pursuant to the rules of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.
(B) The combined separate unit then takes into account all of the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to its individual separate units pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 25
and
26.
(iii)
Gain or loss on the direct or indirect disposition of a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity
—(A)
In general.
This paragraph (c)(4)(iii) applies for purposes of attributing items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are recognized on the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity (or an interest in a disregarded entity, partnership, or grantor trust that owns, directly or indirectly, a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(4)(iii), items taken into account on the sale, exchange, or other disposition include loss recapture income or gain under section 367(a)(3)(C) or 904(f)(3), and gain or loss recognized by the domestic owner as the result of an election under section 338. In cases where this paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(A) applies, items taken into account on the sale, exchange, or other disposition shall be attributable to the separate unit or the interest in the transparent entity to the extent of gain or loss that would have been recognized had the separate unit or transparent entity sold all its assets (as determined in paragraph (f) of this section) in a taxable exchange, immediately before the sale, exchange, or other disposition (deemed sale). For purposes of a deemed sale described in this paragraph (c)(4)(iii), the assets are treated as being sold for an amount equal to their fair market value, plus the assumption of the liabilities of the separate unit or interest in a transparent entity (as determined in paragraph (f) of this section). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 27.
(B)
Multiple separate units or interests in transparent entities.
This paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(B) applies to a sale, exchange, or other disposition described in paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(A) of this section that results in more than one separate unit or interest in a transparent entity being, directly or indirectly, disposed of. In such a case, items of income, gain, deduction, and loss recognized on such sale, exchange, or other disposition are allocated and attributed to each separate unit or interest in a transparent entity, based on the relative gain or loss that would have been recognized by each separate unit or interest in a transparent entity pursuant to a deemed sale of their assets. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 28.
(iv)
Inclusions on stock.
Any amount included in income of a domestic owner arising from ownership of stock in a foreign corporation (for example, under sections 78, 951, or 986(c)) through a separate unit, or interest in a transparent entity, shall be attributable to the separate unit or interest in a transparent entity, if an actual dividend from such foreign corporation would have been so attributed. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 24.
(v)
Foreign currency gain or loss recognized under section 987.
Foreign currency gain or loss of a domestic owner recognized under section 987 as a result of a transfer or remittance shall not be attributable to a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity.
(vi)
Recapture of dual consolidated loss.
If all or a portion of a dual consolidated loss that was attributable to a separate unit is included in the gross income of a domestic owner under the recapture provisions of § 1.1503(d)-6(h), such amount shall be attributable to the separate unit that incurred the dual consolidated loss being recaptured. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 38
and
40.
(d)
Foreign tax treatment disregarded.
The fact that a particular item taken into account in computing the income or dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation or a separate unit, or the income or loss of an interest in a transparent entity, is not taken into account in computing income (or loss) subject to a foreign country's income tax shall not cause such item to be excluded from being taken into account under paragraph (b), (c), or (e) of this section.
(e)
Items generated or incurred while a dual resident corporation, a separate unit, or a transparent entity.
For purposes of determining the amount of the dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation for the taxable year, only the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss generated or incurred during the period the dual resident corporation qualified as such shall be taken into account. For purposes of determining the amount of income of a dual resident corporation for the taxable year, all the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss generated or incurred during the year shall be taken into account. For purposes of determining the amount of the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to a separate unit, or the income or loss attributable to an interest in a transparent entity, for the taxable year, only the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss generated or incurred during the period the separate unit or the interest in the transparent entity qualified as such shall be taken into account. For purposes of this paragraph (e), the allocation of items to periods shall be made under the principles of § 1.1502-76(b).
(f)
Assets and liabilities of a separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity.
A separate unit or an interest in a transparent entity shall be treated as owning assets to the extent items of income, gain, deduction, and loss from such assets would be attributable to the separate unit or interest in the transparent entity under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. Similarly, liabilities shall be treated as liabilities of a separate unit, or an interest in a transparent entity, to the extent interest expense incurred on such liabilities would be attributable to the separate unit, or the interest in a transparent entity, under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.
(g)
Basis adjustments
—(1)
Affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner.
If a member of a consolidated group owns stock in an affiliated dual resident corporation or an affiliated domestic owner that is a member of the same consolidated group, the member shall adjust the basis of the
stock in accordance with the provisions of § 1.1502-32. Corresponding adjustments shall be made to the stock of other members in accordance with the provisions of § 1.1502-32. In the case where two or more individual separate units are treated as a combined separate unit pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), see paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
(2)
Interests in hybrid entities that are partnerships or interests in partnerships through which a separate unit is owned indirectly
—(i)
Scope.
This paragraph (g)(2) applies for purposes of determining the adjusted basis of an interest in—
(A) A hybrid entity that is a partnership; and
(B) A partnership through which a domestic owner indirectly owns a separate unit.
(ii)
Determination of basis of partner's interest.
The adjusted basis of an interest described in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section shall be adjusted in accordance with section 705 and this paragraph (g)(2). The adjusted basis shall not be decreased for any amount of a dual consolidated loss that is attributable to the partnership interest, or separate unit owned indirectly through the partnership interest, as applicable, that is not absorbed as a result of the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c). The adjusted basis shall, however, be decreased for the amount of such dual consolidated loss that is absorbed in a carryover or carryback taxable year. The adjusted basis shall be increased for any amount included in income pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h) as a result of the recapture of a dual consolidated loss that was attributable to the interest in the hybrid partnership, or separate unit owned indirectly through the partnership interest, as applicable.
(3)
Combined separate units.
This paragraph (g)(3) applies where two or more individual separate units of one or more affiliated domestic owners are treated as one combined separate unit pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In such a case, a member owning stock in an affiliated domestic owner of the combined separate unit shall adjust the basis in the stock of such domestic owner as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and an affiliated domestic owner shall adjust its basis in a partnership, as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, taking into account only those items of income, gain, deduction, or loss attributable to each individual separate unit, prior to combination. For purposes of this rule, if the dual consolidated loss attributable to a combined separate unit is subject to the domestic use limitation of § 1.1503(d)-4(b), then for purposes of this paragraph (g) and § 1.1502-32, the dual consolidated loss shall be allocated to an individual separate unit to the extent such individual separate unit contributed items of deduction or loss giving rise to the dual consolidated loss. In addition, if one or more affiliated domestic owners are required to recapture all or a portion of a dual consolidated loss pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, such recapture amount shall be allocated to the affiliated domestic owner of the individual separate units composing the combined separate unit, to the extent such individual separate units contributed items of deduction or loss giving rise to the recaptured dual consolidated loss.
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007; 72 FR 20424, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 1.1503(d)-6
Exceptions to the domestic use limitation rule.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Scope and purpose.
This section provides certain exceptions to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). Paragraph (b) of this section provides an exception for bilateral elective agreements. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules regarding an exception that applies when there is no possibility of a foreign use. Paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section provide rules for an exception where a domestic use election is made. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules with respect to triggering events, and paragraph (f) of this section provides rules regarding exceptions to triggering events. Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules with respect to the annual certification reporting requirement. Paragraph (h) of this section provides rules regarding the recapture of dual consolidated losses. Finally, paragraph (j) of this section provides rules regarding the termination
of domestic use agreements and the annual certification requirement.
(2)
Absence of foreign affiliate or foreign consolidation regime.
The absence of a foreign affiliate or a foreign consolidation regime alone does not constitute an exception to the domestic use limitation rule. This is the case because it is still possible that all or a portion of the dual consolidated loss may be put to a foreign use. For example, there may be a foreign use with respect to an affiliate acquired in a year subsequent to the year in which the dual consolidated loss was incurred. In addition, a foreign use may occur in the absence of a foreign consolidation regime through a sale, merger, or similar transaction. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 2.
(3)
Foreign insurance companies treated as domestic corporations.
The exceptions contained in this section shall not apply to losses of a foreign insurance company that is a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(ii), or to losses attributable to any separate unit of such foreign insurance company. In addition, these exceptions shall not apply to losses described in the preceding sentence that, subject to the rules of § 1.1503(d)-4(d), carry over to a domestic corporation pursuant to a transaction described in section 381(a).
(b)
Elective agreement in place between the United States and a foreign country
—(1)
In general.
The domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) shall not apply to a dual consolidated loss to the extent the consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner, as the case may be, elects to deduct the loss in the United States pursuant to an agreement entered into between the United States and a foreign country that puts into place an elective procedure through which losses in a particular year may be used to offset income in only one country. This exception shall apply only if all the terms and conditions required under such agreement are satisfied, including any reporting or filing requirements. See § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2)(iii) for the effect of an agreement described in this paragraph on a stand-alone domestic use agreement.
(2)
Application to combined separate units.
This paragraph (b)(2) applies where two or more individual separate units are treated as one combined separate unit pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), and an agreement described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section would apply to at least one of the individual separate units. In such a case, and except to the extent provided in the agreement, the consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner, as the case may be, may apply the agreement to the individual separate units, as applicable, provided the terms and conditions of the agreement are otherwise satisfied. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 19.
(c)
No possibility of foreign use
—(1)
In general.
The domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) shall not apply to a dual consolidated loss if the consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner, as the case may be—
(i) Demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, that no foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3) of the dual consolidated loss occurred in the year in which it was incurred, and that no foreign use can occur in any other year by any means; and
(ii) Prepares a statement described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section that is attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, its U.S. income tax return for the taxable year in which the dual consolidated loss is incurred. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 2, 30,
and
31.
(2)
Statement.
The statement described in this paragraph (c)(2) must be signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the tax return. The statement must be labeled “No Possibility of Foreign Use of Dual Consolidated Loss Statement” at the top of the page and must include the following items, in paragraphs labeled to correspond with the items set forth in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section:
(i) A statement that the document is submitted under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) The name, address, taxpayer identification number, and place and date of incorporation of the dual resident
corporation, and the country or countries that tax the dual resident corporation on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, or, in the case of a separate unit, identification of the separate unit, including the name under which it conducts business, its principal activity, and the country in which its principal place of business is located. In the case of a combined separate unit, such information must be provided for each individual separate unit that is treated as part of the combined separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii).
(iii) A statement of the amount of the dual consolidated loss at issue.
(iv) An analysis, in reasonable detail and specificity, of the treatment of the losses and deductions composing the dual consolidated loss under the relevant facts. The analysis must include the reasons supporting the conclusion that no foreign use of the dual consolidated loss can occur as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. The analysis must be supported with official or certified English translations of the relevant provisions of foreign law. The analysis may, for example, be based on the taxpayer's interpretation of foreign law, on advice received from local tax advisers in an opinion, or on a ruling from local country tax authorities. In all cases, however, the determination must be made to the satisfaction of the Commissioner.
(d)
Domestic use election
—(1)
In general.
The domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) shall not apply to a dual consolidated loss if an election to be bound by the provisions of paragraphs (d) through (j) of this section is made by the consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner, as the case may be (elector). In order to elect such relief, an agreement described in this paragraph (d)(1) (domestic use agreement) must be attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, the U.S. income tax return of the elector for the taxable year in which the dual consolidated loss is incurred. The domestic use agreement must be signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the return. If dual consolidated losses of more than one dual resident corporation or separate unit requires the filing of domestic use agreements by the same elector, the agreements may be combined in a single document, but the information required by paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (iv) of this section must be provided separately with respect to each dual consolidated loss. The domestic use agreement must be labeled “Domestic Use Election and Agreement” at the top of the page and must include the following items, in paragraphs labeled to correspond with the following:
(i) A statement that the document submitted is an election and an agreement under the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) The information required by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iii) An agreement by the elector to comply with all of the provisions of paragraphs (d) through (j) of this section, as applicable.
(iv) A statement of the amount of the dual consolidated loss at issue.
(v) A certification that there has not been, and will not be, a foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3) during the certification period (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(20)).
(vi) A certification that arrangements have been made to ensure that there will be no foreign use of the dual consolidated loss during the certification period, and that the elector will be informed of any such foreign use of the dual consolidated loss during such period.
(vii) If applicable, a notification that an excepted triggering event under paragraph (f)(2) of this section has occurred with respect to the dual consolidated loss within the taxable year in which the loss is incurred. See paragraph (g) of this section for notification of excepted triggering events occurring during the certification period.
(2)
No domestic use election available if there is a triggering event in the year the dual consolidated loss is incurred.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, if a dual resident corporation or separate unit incurs a dual consolidated loss in a taxable year and a triggering event, as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, occurs (and no exception applies) with respect to the dual consolidated loss in such taxable year, then
the consolidated group, unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner, as the case may be, may not make a domestic use election with respect to such dual consolidated loss and the loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 5
through
7.
See also § 1.1503(d)-4(d) for rules that eliminate a dual consolidated loss after certain transactions.
(e)
Triggering events requiring the recapture of a dual consolidated loss
—(1)
Events.
Except as provided under paragraphs (e)(2) (rebuttal of triggering events) and (f) (exceptions to triggering events) of this section, if there is a triggering event described in this paragraph (e)(1) with respect to a dual consolidated loss of a dual resident corporation or a separate unit during the certification period (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(20)), the elector will recapture and report as ordinary income the amount of such dual consolidated loss as provided in paragraph (h) of this section on its tax return for the taxable year in which the triggering event occurs (or, when the triggering event is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss, the taxable year that includes the last day of the foreign taxable year during which such use occurs). In addition, the elector must pay any applicable interest charge required by paragraph (h) of this section. For purposes of this section, any of the following events shall constitute a triggering event:
(i)
Foreign use.
A foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3) of the dual consolidated loss. See § 1.1503(d)-3(c) for exceptions to foreign use.
(ii)
Disaffiliation.
An affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner that incurred directly or through a separate unit, respectively, a dual consolidated loss that is subject to a domestic use election, ceases to be a member of the consolidated group that made the domestic use election. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(1)(ii), an affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner shall be considered to cease to be a member of the consolidated group if it is no longer a member of the group within the meaning of § 1.1502-1(b), or if the group ceases to exist (for example, when the group no longer files a consolidated return). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 34.
Any consequences resulting from this triggering event (for example, recapture of a dual consolidated loss) shall be taken into account on the tax return of the consolidated group for the taxable year that includes the date on which the affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner ceases to be a member of the consolidated group. This paragraph (e)(1)(ii) shall not apply to an acquisition described in § 1.1502-75(d)(3) where the consolidated group that includes the affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner, as applicable, is treated as remaining in existence.
(iii)
Affiliation.
An unaffiliated dual resident corporation or unaffiliated domestic owner becomes a member of a consolidated group. Any consequences resulting from this triggering event (for example, recapture of a dual consolidated loss) shall be taken into account on the tax return of the unaffiliated dual resident corporation or unaffiliated domestic owner for the taxable year that ends at the end of the day on which such corporation becomes a member of the consolidated group.
(iv)
Transfer of assets.
Fifty percent or more of the dual resident corporation's or separate unit's gross assets (measured by the fair market value of the assets at the time of such transaction or, for multiple transactions, at the time of the first transaction) is sold or otherwise disposed of in either a single transaction or a series of transactions within a twelve-month period. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 5
and
35
through
37.
In determining whether fifty percent or more of such assets is sold or otherwise disposed of, any dispositions occurring in the ordinary course of the dual resident corporation's or separate unit's trade or business shall be disregarded. In addition, for purposes of this paragraph (e)(1)(iv), an interest in another separate unit and the shares of a dual resident corporation shall not be treated as assets of a separate unit or a dual resident corporation.
(v)
Transfer of an interest in a separate unit.
Fifty percent or more of the interest in a separate unit (measured by
voting power or value at the time of such transaction, or for multiple transactions, at the time of the first transaction) of the domestic owner, as determined by reference to such domestic owner's percentage interest on the last day of the taxable year in which the dual consolidated loss was incurred, is sold or otherwise disposed of either in a single transaction or a series of transactions within a twelve-month period. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 5
and
35
through
37.
(vi)
Conversion to a foreign corporation.
An unaffiliated dual resident corporation, unaffiliated domestic owner, or hybrid entity an interest in which is a separate unit, that incurred the dual consolidated loss, becomes a foreign corporation (for example, as a result of a reorganization or an election to be classified as a corporation under § 301.7701-3(c) of this chapter).
(vii)
Conversion to a regulated investment company, a real estate investment trust, or an S corporation.
An unaffiliated dual resident corporation or unaffiliated domestic owner elects to be a regulated investment company pursuant to section 851(b)(1), a real estate investment trust pursuant to section 856(c)(1), or an S corporation pursuant to section 1362(a).
(viii)
Failure to certify.
The elector fails to file a certification with respect to a dual consolidated loss as required under paragraph (g) of this section.
(ix)
Cessation of stand-alone status.
In the case of a dual consolidated loss that is subject to the stand-alone exception described in § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2), the conditions described in § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2)(i) are no longer satisfied. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 18.
(2)
Rebuttal
—(i)
General rule.
An event described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall not constitute a triggering event if the elector demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, that there can be no foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3) of the dual consolidated loss during the remaining certification period by any means. See paragraph (j)(1) of this section for rules regarding the termination of domestic use agreements and annual certifications following rebuttals under this general rule.
(ii)
Certain asset transfers.
An event described in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section shall not constitute a triggering event if the elector demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, that the transfer of assets did not result in a carryover under foreign law of the dual resident corporation's, or separate unit's, losses, expenses, or deductions to the transferee of the assets. For purposes of this determination, the exception to foreign use in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(7) shall be taken into account. Following rebuttal under this paragraph (e)(2)(ii), the domestic use agreement continues in effect.
(iii)
Reporting.
In order to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, the elector must prepare a statement, labeled “Rebuttal of Triggering Event” at the top of the page, that indicates that it is submitted under the provisions of this paragraph (e)(2). The statement must include the information described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section. The statement must also include the information described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section that supports the conclusions under paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. The statement must be attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, the elector's income tax return for the taxable year in which the presumed triggering event occurs.
(iv)
Examples.
See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 32
and
33.
(f)
Triggering event exceptions
—(1)
Continuing ownership of assets or interests.
The following events shall not constitute triggering events, requiring the recapture of the dual consolidated loss under paragraph (h) of this section:
(i)
Disaffiliation as a result of a transaction described in section 381.
An affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner ceases to be a member of a consolidated group solely by reason of a transaction in which a member of the same consolidated group succeeds to the tax attributes of the dual resident corporation or domestic owner under the provisions of section 381.
(ii)
Continuing ownership by consolidated group.
This paragraph (f)(1)(ii) applies when assets of an affiliated dual resident corporation, or assets of, or interests in, a separate unit of an affiliated domestic owner are sold or otherwise disposed of. In such a case, the sale or disposition shall not be treated as a triggering event to the extent the assets or interests are acquired by one or more members of the consolidated group that includes the affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner, or by a partnership or a grantor trust, but only if immediately after the acquisition more than 90 percent of the partnership's or grantor trust's interests is owned, directly or indirectly, by members of such consolidated group.
(iii)
Continuing ownership by unaffiliated dual resident corporation or unaffiliated domestic owner.
This paragraph (f)(1)(iii) applies when assets of an unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or assets of, or interests in, a separate unit of an unaffiliated domestic owner, are sold or otherwise disposed of. In such a case, the sale or disposition shall not be a triggering event to the extent such assets or interests are acquired by the unaffiliated dual resident corporation, or unaffiliated domestic owner, as applicable, or by a partnership or grantor trust, but only if immediately after the acquisition more than 90 percent of the partnership's or grantor trust's interests is owned, directly or indirectly, by the unaffiliated dual resident corporation or unaffiliated domestic owner. For example, this paragraph (f)(1)(iii) applies when an unaffiliated domestic owner acquires direct ownership of the assets of a separate unit that it had immediately before owned indirectly through a partnership.
(2)
Transactions requiring a new domestic use agreement
—(i)
Multiple-party events.
If all the requirements of paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section are satisfied, the following events shall not constitute triggering events requiring the recapture of the dual consolidated loss under paragraph (h) of this section:
(A) An affiliated dual resident corporation or affiliated domestic owner becomes an unaffiliated domestic corporation or a member of a new consolidated group (other than in a transaction described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section).
(B) Assets of a dual resident corporation or assets of, or interests in, a separate unit, are sold or otherwise disposed of in a transaction in which such assets or interests are acquired by an unaffiliated domestic corporation, one or more members of a new consolidated group, or by a partnership or grantor trust, but only if immediately after the sale or disposition more than 90 percent of the partnership's or grantor trust's interests is owned, directly or indirectly, by the unaffiliated domestic owner or by members of a new consolidated group, as applicable. See the related exception to foreign use provided under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(8). See also § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 36
and
37.
(ii)
Events resulting in a single consolidated group.
If the requirements of paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section are satisfied, the following events shall not constitute triggering events requiring the recapture of the dual consolidated loss under paragraph (h) of this section:
(A) An unaffiliated dual resident corporation or unaffiliated domestic owner becomes a member of a consolidated group.
(B) A consolidated group ceases to exist as a result of a transaction described in § 1.1502-13(j)(5)(i) (relating to acquisitions of the common parent of the consolidated group), other than a transaction in which any member of the terminating group, or the successor-in-interest of such member, is not a member of the surviving group immediately after the terminating group ceases to exist. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 34.
(iii)
Requirements
—(A)
New domestic use agreement.
The unaffiliated domestic corporation or new consolidated group (subsequent elector) must file an agreement described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (new domestic use agreement). The new domestic use agreement must be labeled “New Domestic Use Agreement” at the top of the page, and must be attached to and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, the subsequent elector's income tax return for the taxable year in which the event described in paragraph
(f)(2)(i) or (f)(2)(ii) of this section occurs. The new domestic use agreement must be signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the return and must include the following items:
(
1
) A statement that the document submitted is an election and agreement under the provisions of paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(
2
) An agreement to assume the same obligations with respect to the dual consolidated loss as the unaffiliated dual resident corporation, unaffiliated domestic owner, or consolidated group, as applicable, that filed the original domestic use agreement (original elector) with respect to that loss. In such a case, obligations of an elector provided under this section shall also be considered to be obligations of a subsequent elector.
(
3
) In the event of a transaction described in section 384(a) involving the subsequent elector, an agreement to treat any potential recapture amount under paragraph (h) of this section with respect to the dual consolidated loss as unrealized built-in gain for purposes of section 384(a), subject to any applicable exceptions (for example, the threshold requirements under section 382(h)(3)(B)). The potential recapture amount treated as unrealized built-in gain under this paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A)(
3
) may be reduced to the extent permitted by paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section.
(
4
) In the case of a multiple-party event described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, an agreement to be subject to the rules provided in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(
5
) The name, U.S. taxpayer identification number, and address of the original elector and prior subsequent electors, if any, with respect to the dual consolidated loss.
(B)
Statement filed by original elector.
In the case of a multiple-party event described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the original elector must file a statement that is attached to and filed by the due date (including extensions) of its income tax return for the taxable year in which the event occurs. The statement must be labeled “Original Elector Statement” at the top of the page, must be signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the tax return, and must include the following items:
(
1
) A statement that the document submitted is an election and agreement under the provisions of paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(
2
) An agreement to be subject to the rules provided in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(
3
) The name, U.S. taxpayer identification number, and address of the subsequent elector.
(3)
Certain transfers qualifying for the de minimis exception to foreign use.
If a transaction or event qualifies for the de minimis exception to foreign use described in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(5), the transaction or event shall not constitute a triggering event under paragraph (e)(1)(iv) (transfers of assets) or (v) (transfers of an interest in a separate unit) of this section. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the transaction or event shall include deemed transfers that occur as a result of the transaction or event. See, for example, deemed transfers occurring pursuant to Rev. Rul. 99-5 (1999-1 CB 434), see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
), and section 708 and the related regulations. See also § 1.1503(d)-7
Example 5.
This paragraph (f)(3) only applies if the entire transaction or event qualifies for the de minimis exception to foreign use. For example, if a domestic owner sells five percent of a separate unit to a foreign corporation, which would qualify for the de minimis exception to foreign use if it were the only transfer, but pursuant to the same transaction also sells 70 percent of the same separate unit to another corporation in a manner that results in a triggering event under paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section, this paragraph shall not apply to prevent the transaction from resulting in a triggering event.
(4)
Deemed transactions as a result of certain transfers that do not result in a foreign use.
The rules in this paragraph (f)(4) apply where the assets of, or the interests in, a separate unit are transferred in a transaction that would not result in a foreign use and, but for resulting deemed transactions or events, would not result in a triggering event described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(4), deemed transactions or events
shall include transactions or events that are deemed to occur pursuant to Rev. Rul. 99-5 and section 708 and the related regulations. In such a case, the deemed transactions shall not result in a triggering event under paragraph (e)(1)(iv) (transfers of assets) or (v) (transfers of an interest in a separate unit) of this section. See also § 1.1503(d)-7
Example 35.
(5)
Compulsory transfers.
Transfers of the assets or stock of a dual resident corporation, or of the assets or interests in a separate unit, shall not constitute a triggering event (including a foreign use that occurs as a result of, or following, the transfer) if such transfers are—
(i) Legally required by a government of a country as a necessary condition of doing business in the country;
(ii) Compelled by a genuine threat of immediate expropriation by a government of a country; or
(iii) The result of the expropriation of assets by a government of a country.
(6)
Subsequent triggering events.
Any triggering event described in paragraph (e) of this section that occurs subsequent to one of the transactions described in this paragraph (f), and that itself does not meet any of the exceptions provided in this paragraph (f), shall require recapture under paragraph (h) of this section by the elector or subsequent elector, as applicable.
(g)
Annual certification reporting requirement.
Unless and until the domestic use agreement is terminated pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section, the elector must file a certification, labeled “Certification of Dual Consolidated Loss” at the top of the page, that is attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, its income tax return for each taxable year during the certification period. The certification must provide that there has been no foreign use of the dual consolidated loss. The certification must identify the dual consolidated loss to which it pertains by setting forth the elector's year in which the loss was incurred and the amount of such loss. In addition, the certification must warrant that arrangements have been made to ensure that there will be no foreign use of the dual consolidated loss and that the elector will be informed of any such foreign use. If applicable, the certification must include a notification that an excepted triggering event under paragraph (f)(2) of this section has occurred with respect to the dual consolidated loss within the taxable year being certified. If dual consolidated losses of more than one taxable year are subject to the rules of this paragraph (g), the certification for those years may be combined in a single document, but each dual consolidated loss must be separately identified. See § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2)(ii) for additional certifications required where taxpayers elect the stand-alone exception of § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2).
(h)
Recapture of dual consolidated loss and interest charge
—(1)
Presumptive rules
—(i)
Amount of recapture.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, upon the occurrence of a triggering event described in paragraph (e) of this section that does not meet any of the exceptions provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the dual resident corporation or domestic owner of the separate unit shall recapture as gross income the total amount of the dual consolidated loss to which the triggering event applies on its income tax return for the taxable year in which the triggering event occurs (or, when the triggering event is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss, the taxable year that includes the last day of the foreign taxable year during which such foreign use occurs). See § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(vi) for rules with respect to the attribution of recapture income to a separate unit. See also § 1.1503(d)-7
Examples 38
through
40.
(ii)
Interest charge.
In connection with the recapture, the elector shall pay an interest charge. An interest charge may be due even if the amount of recapture income is reduced to zero pursuant to paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 39.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the amount of the interest shall be computed under the rules of section 6601(a) by treating the additional tax resulting from the recapture as though it had been due and unpaid as of the date for payment of the tax for the taxable year in which the taxpayer received a tax benefit from the dual consolidated loss. For purposes of this
paragraph (h)(1)(ii), a tax benefit shall be considered to have arisen in a taxable year in which the losses or deductions taken into account in computing the dual consolidated loss reduced U.S. taxable income. For the purpose of computing the interest charge, the additional tax resulting from the recapture is determined by treating the recapture income as the last income earned in the year of recapture. The interest shall be computed to the date for payment of the tax for the year of recapture and the interest thus computed becomes a part of the tax liability for that taxable year. See section 6601 for the computation of interest on a tax liability that it is not paid timely. The recapture interest charge shall be deductible to the same extent as interest under section 6601.
(2)
Reduction of presumptive recapture amount and presumptive interest charge
—(i)
Amount of recapture.
The dual resident corporation or domestic owner may recapture an amount less than the total dual consolidated loss if the elector demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the lesser amount described in this paragraph (h)(2)(i). The reduction in the amount of recapture is the amount by which the dual consolidated loss would have offset other taxable income reported on a timely filed U.S. income tax return for any taxable year up to and including the taxable year of the triggering event (or, when the triggering event is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss, the taxable year that includes the last day of the foreign taxable year during which such foreign use occurs) if no domestic use election had been made for the loss such that it was subject to the domestic use limitation of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (and therefore subject to the limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(c)). For this purpose, the rules for attributing items of income, gain, deduction, and loss under § 1.1503(d)-5 shall apply. An elector using this rebuttal rule must prepare a separate accounting showing the income for each year that would have offset the dual resident corporation's or separate unit's recapture amount if no domestic use election had been made for the dual consolidated loss. The separate accounting must be signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the elector's tax return, must be labeled “Reduction of Recapture Amount” at the top of the page, and must indicate that it is submitted under the provisions of this paragraph (h)(2)(i). The accounting must be attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, the elector's income tax return for the taxable year in which the triggering event occurs. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 38
through
40.
(ii)
Interest charge.
The interest charge imposed under this section may be reduced if the elector demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, that the net interest owed would have been less than that provided in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section if the elector had filed an amended return for the taxable year in which the recaptured dual consolidated loss was incurred, and for any other affected taxable years up to and including the taxable year of recapture, if no domestic use election had been made for the dual consolidated loss such that it had been subject to the restrictions of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (and therefore subject to the limitations under § 1.1503(d)-4(c)). An elector using this rebuttal rule must prepare a computation demonstrating the reduction in the net interest owed as a result of treating the dual consolidated loss as a loss subject to the restrictions of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (and therefore subject to the limitations under § 1.1503(d)-4(c)). The computation must be labeled “Reduction of Interest Charge” at the top of the page and must indicate that it is submitted under the provisions of this paragraph (h)(2)(ii). The computation must be signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the elector's tax return, and must be attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, the elector's income tax return for the taxable year in which the triggering event occurs. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 39
and
40.
(3)
Rules regarding multiple-party event exceptions to triggering events
—(i)
Scope.
The rules of this paragraph (h)(3) apply when, after a triggering event described in paragraph (e) of this section with respect to which the requirements of paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section were met (excepted event), a triggering
event under paragraph (e) of this section occurs, and no exception applies to such triggering event under paragraph (f) of this section (subsequent triggering event). See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 36
and
37.
(ii)
Original elector and prior subsequent electors not subject to recapture or interest charge
—(A) Except to the extent otherwise provided in this paragraph (h)(3), neither the original elector nor any prior subsequent elector shall be subject to the rules of this paragraph (h) with respect to dual consolidated losses subject to the original domestic use agreement.
(B) In the case of a dual consolidated loss with respect to which multiple excepted events have occurred, only the subsequent elector that owns the dual resident corporation or separate unit at the time of the subsequent triggering event shall be subject to the recapture rules of this paragraph (h). For purposes of this paragraph (h), the term prior subsequent elector refers to all other subsequent electors.
(iii)
Recapture tax amount and required statement
—(A)
In general.
If a subsequent triggering event occurs, the subsequent elector shall take into account the recapture tax amount as determined under paragraph (h)(3)(iii)(B) of this section. The subsequent elector must prepare a statement that computes the recapture tax amount, as provided under paragraph (h)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, with respect to the dual consolidated loss subject to the new domestic use agreement. This statement must be attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, the subsequent elector's income tax return for the taxable year in which the subsequent triggering event occurs (or, when the subsequent triggering event is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss, the taxable year that includes the last day of the foreign taxable year during which such foreign use occurs). The statement must be signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the return. The statement must be labeled “Statement Identifying Liability” at the top and, in addition to the calculation of the recapture tax amount, must include the following items, in paragraphs labeled to correspond with the items set forth in paragraphs (h)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section:
(
1
) A statement that the document is submitted under the provisions of § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(3)(iii).
(
2
) A statement identifying the amount of the dual consolidated losses at issue and the taxable years in which they were used.
(
3
) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the original elector and all prior subsequent electors.
(B)
Recapture tax amount.
The recapture tax amount equals the excess (if any) of—
(
1
) The income tax liability of the subsequent elector for the taxable year that includes the amount of recapture and related interest charge with respect to the dual consolidated losses that are recaptured as a result of the subsequent triggering event, as provided under paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section; over
(
2
) The income tax liability of the subsequent elector for such taxable year, computed by excluding the amount of recapture and related interest charge described in paragraph (h)(3)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section.
(iv)
Tax assessment and collection procedures
—(A)
In general
—(
1
)
Subsequent elector.
An assessment identifying an income tax liability of the subsequent elector is considered an assessment of the recapture tax amount where the recapture tax amount is part of the income tax liability being assessed and the recapture tax amount is reflected in a statement attached to the subsequent elector's income tax return as provided under paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section.
(
2
)
Original elector and prior subsequent electors.
The assessment of the recapture tax amount as set forth in paragraph (h)(3)(iv)(A)(
1
) of this section shall be considered as having been properly assessed as an income tax liability of the original elector and of each prior subsequent elector, if any. The date of such assessment shall be the date the income tax liability of the subsequent elector was properly assessed. The Commissioner may collect all or a portion of such recapture tax amount from the original elector and/or the prior subsequent electors under
the circumstances set forth in paragraph (h)(3)(iv)(B) of this section.
(B)
Collection from original elector and prior subsequent electors; joint and several liability
—(
1
)
In general.
If the subsequent elector does not pay in full the income tax liability that includes a recapture tax amount, the Commissioner may collect that portion of the unpaid balance of such income tax liability attributable to the recapture tax amount in full or in part from the original elector and/or from any prior subsequent elector, provided that the following conditions are satisfied with respect to such elector:
(
i
) The Commissioner properly has assessed the recapture tax amount pursuant to paragraph (h)(3)(iv)(A)(
1
) of this section.
(
ii
) The Commissioner has issued a notice and demand for payment of the recapture tax amount to the subsequent elector in accordance with § 301.6303-1 of this chapter.
(
iii
) The subsequent elector has failed to pay all of the recapture tax amount by the date specified in such notice and demand.
(
iv
) The Commissioner has issued a notice and demand for payment of the unpaid portion of the recapture tax amount to the original elector, or prior subsequent elector (as the case may be), in accordance with § 301.6303-1 of this chapter.
(
2
)
Joint and several liability.
The liability imposed under this paragraph (h)(3)(iv)(B) on the original elector and each prior subsequent elector shall be joint and several.
(C)
Allocation of partial payments of tax.
If the subsequent elector's income tax liability for a taxable period includes a recapture tax amount, and if such income tax liability is satisfied in part by payment, credit, or offset, such payment, credit or offset shall be allocated first to that portion of the income tax liability that is not attributable to the recapture tax amount, and then to that portion of the income tax liability that is attributable to the recapture tax amount.
(D)
Refund.
If the Commissioner makes a refund of any income tax liability that includes a recapture tax amount, the Commissioner shall allocate and pay the refund to each elector who paid a portion of such income tax liability as follows:
(
1
) The Commissioner shall first determine the total amount of recapture tax paid by and/or collected from the original elector and from any prior subsequent electors. The Commissioner shall then allocate and pay such refund to the original elector and prior subsequent electors, with each such elector receiving an amount of such refund on a pro rata basis, not to exceed the amount of recapture tax paid by and/or collected from such elector.
(
2
) The Commissioner shall pay the balance of such refund, if any, to the subsequent elector.
(v)
Definition of income tax liability.
Solely for purposes of paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the term
income tax liability
means the income tax liability imposed on a domestic corporation under title 26 of the United States Code for a taxable year, including additions to tax, additional amounts, penalties, and any interest charge related to such income tax liability.
(vi)
Example.
See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 36.
(4)
Computation of taxable income in year of recapture
—(i)
Presumptive rule.
Except to the extent provided in paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section, for purposes of computing the taxable income for the year of recapture, no current, carryover or carryback losses may offset and absorb the recapture amount.
(ii)
Exception to presumptive rule.
The recapture amount included in gross income may be offset and absorbed by that portion of the elector's net operating loss carryover that is attributable to the dual resident corporation or separate unit that incurred the dual consolidated loss being recaptured, if the elector demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the amount of such portion of the carryover. The principles of § 1.1502-21(b)(2)(iv) shall apply for purposes of determining whether any portion of a net operating loss carryover is attributable to the dual resident corporation or separate unit. In the case of a separate unit, such determination shall be made by treating the separate unit as a domestic corporation and a member of the consolidated group composing its
unaffiliated domestic owner, or members of the consolidated group of which its affiliated domestic owner is a member, as appropriate. An elector utilizing this rebuttal rule must prepare a computation demonstrating the amount of net operating loss carryover that, under this paragraph (h)(4)(ii), may absorb the recapture amount included in gross income. Such computation must be signed under penalties of perjury and attached to and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, the income tax return for the taxable year in which the triggering event occurs (or, when the triggering event is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss, the taxable year that includes the last day of the foreign taxable year during which such foreign use occurs).
(5)
Character and source of recapture income.
The amount recaptured under this paragraph (h) shall be treated as ordinary income. Except as provided in the prior sentence, such income shall be treated, as applicable, as income from the same source, having the same character, and falling within the same separate category, for all purposes, including sections 904(d) and 907, to which the items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss were allocated and apportioned, as provided under sections 861(b), 862(b), 863(a), 864(e), 865, and the related regulations. For this determination, the pro rata computation of the items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss as described in § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(4) shall apply. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 38.
(6)
Reconstituted net operating loss
—(i)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraphs (h)(6)(ii) and (iii) of this section, commencing in the taxable year immediately following the year in which the dual consolidated loss is recaptured, the dual resident corporation, or the domestic owner of the separate unit, that incurred the dual consolidated loss that is recaptured shall be treated as having a net operating loss (reconstituted net operating loss) in an amount equal to the amount actually recaptured under this paragraph (h). If a domestic corporation (transferee) acquires the assets of the dual resident corporation or domestic owner in a transaction described in section 381(a), the preceding sentence shall be applied by treating the transferee as the dual resident corporation or domestic owner, as applicable. In a case to which this paragraph (h)(6) applies, the transferee corporation shall be treated as having a reconstituted net operating loss in an amount equal to the amount actually recaptured under this paragraph (h). In no event, however, shall more than one corporation be treated as having a reconstituted net operating loss as a result of a single dual consolidated loss being recaptured. A reconstituted net operating loss of a domestic owner shall be attributable under § 1.1503(d)-5 to the separate unit that incurred the dual consolidated loss that was recaptured. Moreover, a reconstituted net operating loss shall be subject to the domestic use limitation of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (and therefore subject to the limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(c)), without regard to the exceptions contained in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section (relating to elective agreements in place between the United States and a foreign country, the ability to demonstrate no possibility of a foreign use, and a domestic use election, respectively). The reconstituted net operating loss shall be available only for carryover, under section 172(b), to taxable years following the taxable year of recapture. For purposes of determining the remaining carryover period, the reconstituted net operating loss shall be treated as if it had been recognized in the taxable year in which the dual consolidated loss that is the basis of the recapture amount was incurred. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 36, 38,
and
40.
(ii)
Exception.
Paragraph (h)(6)(i) of this section shall not apply to the extent the dual consolidated loss that is the basis of the recapture amount would have been eliminated pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d) if no domestic use election had been made for such loss. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 40.
(iii)
Special rule for recapture following multiple-party event exception to a triggering event.
This paragraph applies to an excepted event described in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(B) of this section that is followed by a subsequent triggering event requiring recapture as described in paragraph (f)(6) of this section. In
such a case, the domestic corporation that owns, directly or indirectly, the assets of the dual resident corporation, or the assets of or the interests in a separate unit, immediately following the excepted event shall be treated as if it incurred the dual consolidated loss that is recaptured for purposes of applying paragraph (h)(6)(i) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Example 36.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Termination of domestic use agreement and annual certifications
—(1)
Rebuttals, exceptions to triggering events, and recapture.
The domestic use agreement filed with respect to a dual consolidated loss shall terminate prior to the end of the certification period and have no further effect if—
(i) An elector is able to rebut the presumption of a triggering event pursuant to the general rule in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section;
(ii) An event described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is not a triggering event as a result of the application of paragraphs (f)(2)(i) or (ii) (relating to events requiring a new domestic use agreement) of this section; this paragraph (j)(1)(ii) does not, however, apply to terminate the new domestic use agreement filed in connection with the event pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section. See also paragraph (h)(3)(iv) of this section regarding collection from the original elector and prior subsequent electors in certain cases; or
(iii) A dual consolidated loss is recaptured pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section. See § 1.1503(d)-7(c)
Examples 32
through
34.
(2)
Termination of ability for foreign use
—(i)
In general.
A domestic use agreement filed with respect to a dual consolidated loss shall terminate and have no further effect as of the end of a taxable year if the elector—
(A) Demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, that as of the end of such taxable year no foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3) of the dual consolidated loss can occur in any other year by any means; and
(B) Prepares a statement described in paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section that is attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of, its U.S. income tax return for such taxable year.
(ii)
Statement.
The statement described in this paragraph (j)(2)(ii) must be signed under penalties of perjury by the person who signs the return. The statement must be labeled “Termination of Ability for Foreign Use” at the top of the page and must include the following information, in paragraphs labeled to correspond with the following:
(A) A statement that the document is submitted under the provisions of paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
(B) The information required by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
(C) A statement of the amount of the dual consolidated loss at issue and the year in which such dual consolidated loss was incurred.
(D) The information described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section that supports the conclusion that no foreign use can occur as provided in paragraph (j)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
(3)
Agreements filed in connection with stand-alone exception.
See § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2)(iii) for the termination of domestic use agreements filed in connection with the stand-alone exception to the mirror legislation rule when a subsequent election is made under paragraph (b) of this section (relating to agreements entered into between the United States and a foreign country).
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19855, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 1.1503(d)-7
Examples.
(a)
In general.
This section provides examples that illustrate the application of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-6. This section also provides facts that are presumed for such examples.
(b)
Presumed facts for examples.
For purposes of the examples in this section, unless otherwise indicated, the following facts are presumed:
(1) Each entity has only a single class of equity outstanding, all of which is held by a single owner.
(2) P, a domestic corporation and the common parent of the P consolidated group, owns S, a domestic corporation and a member of the P consolidated group.
(3) DRC
X
, a domestic corporation, is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, and is a dual resident corporation.
(4) DE1
X
and DE2
X
are both Country X entities, subject to Country X tax on their worldwide income or on a residence basis, and disregarded as entities separate from their owners for U.S. tax purposes. DE3
Y
is a Country Y entity, subject to Country Y tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, and disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. tax purposes. All the interests in DE1
X
, DE2
X
, and DE3
Y
constitute hybrid entity separate units.
(5) FB
X
is a Country X business operation that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch, as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1), and is a Country X foreign branch separate unit.
(6) Neither the assets nor the activities of an entity constitute a foreign branch separate unit.
(7) FS
X
is a Country X entity that is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis and is classified as a foreign corporation for U.S. tax purposes.
(8) The applicable foreign country has a consolidation regime that—
(i) Includes as members of a consolidated group any commonly controlled branches and permanent establishments in such jurisdiction, and entities that are subject to tax in such jurisdiction on their worldwide income or on a residence basis; and
(ii) Allows the losses of members of consolidated groups to offset income of other members.
(9) There is no mirror legislation, within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(1), in the applicable foreign country.
(10) There is no elective agreement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(b) between the United States and the applicable foreign country.
(11) There is no income tax convention between the United States and the applicable foreign country.
(12) If a domestic use election, within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-6(d), is made, all the necessary filings related to such election are properly completed on a timely basis.
(13) If there is a triggering event requiring recapture of a dual consolidated loss, the amount of recapture is not reduced pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2).
(14) There are no other items of income, gain, deduction, and loss. In addition, the United States and the applicable foreign country recognize the same items of income, gain, deduction, and loss in each taxable year.
(15) All taxpayers use the calendar year as their taxable year.
(c)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-6:
(1)
Example 1. Separate unit combination rule
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE3
Y
which, in turn, owns DE1
X
. DE1
X
owns FB
X
. PRS, an entity treated as a partnership for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes, is owned 50 percent by P and 50 percent by an unrelated foreign person. PRS carries on a business operation in Country X that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). In addition, P owns DRC
X
, a member of the consolidated group of which P is the parent, which carries on business operations in Country X that constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). S owns DE2
X
.
(ii)
Result.
Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), the interest in DE1
X
, the interest in DE2
X
, FB
X
, P's share of the Country X business operations carried on by PRS (which is owned by P indirectly through its interest in PRS), and DRC
X
's Country X business operations are combined and treated as a single separate unit of the consolidated group of which P is the parent. This is the case regardless of whether the losses of each individual separate unit are made available to offset the income of the other individual separate units under Country X tax laws. Because DRC
X
is a dual resident corporation, it is not combined and treated as part of this combined separate unit and, as a result, DRC
X
's income or dual consolidated loss is not taken into account in determining the income or dual consolidated loss of the combined separate unit. In addition, P's interest in DE3
Y
is not combined and is another separate unit because it is subject to tax in Country Y, rather than Country X.
(2)
Example 2. Definition of a separate unit and application of domestic use limitation—foreign branch separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
P carries on business operations in Country X that constitute a permanent establishment under the U.S.-Country X income tax convention. In year 1, a loss is attributable to P's Country X permanent establishment, as determined under § 1.1503(d)-5.
(ii)
Result.
Under §§ 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(A) and 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1), P's Country X permanent establishment constitutes a foreign branch separate unit. Therefore, the year 1 loss attributable to the foreign branch separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(5)(ii). The dual consolidated loss rules apply to the dual consolidated loss even though there is no affiliate of the foreign branch separate unit in Country X, because it is still possible that all or a portion of the dual consolidated loss can be put to a foreign use. For example, there may be a foreign use with respect to a Country X affiliate acquired in a year subsequent to the year in which the dual consolidated loss was incurred. See § 1.1503(d)-6(a)(2). Accordingly, unless an exception under § 1.1503(d)-6 applies (such as a domestic use election), the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X permanent establishment is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). As a result, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(c), the year 1 dual consolidated loss cannot offset income of P that is not attributable to its Country X foreign branch separate unit, nor can it offset income of any other domestic affiliate. The loss can, however, offset income of the Country X foreign branch separate unit, subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c). The result would be the same even if Country X did not have a consolidation regime that includes as members of consolidated groups Country X branches or permanent establishments of nonresident corporations. The dual consolidated loss rules apply even in the absence of a consolidation regime in the foreign country because it is possible that all or a portion of a dual consolidated loss can be put to a foreign use by other means, such as through a sale, merger, or similar transaction. See § 1.1503(d)-6(a)(2).
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, except that P's Country X business operations constitute a foreign branch as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1), but do not constitute a permanent establishment under the U.S.-Country X income tax convention. Although the activities carried on by P in Country X would otherwise constitute a foreign branch separate unit as described in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(A), the exception under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(iii) applies because the activities do not constitute a permanent establishment under the U.S.-Country X income tax convention. Thus, the Country X business operations do not constitute a foreign branch separate unit, and the year 1 loss is not subject to the dual consolidated loss rules. If P instead carried on its Country X business operations through DE1
X
, then the exception under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(iii) would not apply because P carries on the business operations through a hybrid entity and, as a result, the business operations would constitute a foreign branch separate unit. Thus, in such a case the year 1 loss would be subject to the dual consolidated loss rules.
(3)
Example 3. Domestic use limitation—foreign branch separate unit owned through a partnership
—(i)
Facts.
P and S organize a partnership, PRS
X
, under the laws of Country X. PRS
X
is treated as a partnership for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. PRS
X
owns FB
X
. PRS
X
earns U.S. source income that is unconnected with its FB
X
branch operations, and such income is not subject to tax by Country X. In addition, such U.S. source income is not attributable to FB
X
under § 1.1503(d)-5.
(ii)
Result.
Under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(A), P's and S's shares of FB
X
owned indirectly through their interests in PRS
X
are individual foreign branch separate units. Pursuant to § 1.1503(b)-1(b)(4)(ii), these individual separate units are combined and treated as a single separate unit of the consolidated group of which P is the parent. Unless an exception under
§ 1.1503(d)-6 applies, any dual consolidated loss attributable to FB
X
cannot offset income of P or S (other than income attributable to FB
X
, subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c)), including their distributive share of the U.S. source income earned through their interests in PRS
X
, nor can it offset income of any other domestic affiliates.
(4)
Example 4. Definition of a separate unit and domestic use limitation—interest in hybrid entity partnership and indirectly owned foreign branch separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
HPS
X
is a Country X entity that is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. HPS
X
is classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes. P, S, and FS
X
, are the sole partners of HPS
X
. For U.S. tax purposes, P, S, and FS
X
each has an equal interest in each item of HPS
X
's profit or loss. HPS
X
carries on operations in Country Y that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1).
(ii)
Result.
Under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(B), the partnership interests in HPS
X
held by P and S are individual hybrid entity separate units. These individual separate units are combined into a single separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In addition, P's and S's share of the Country Y operations owned indirectly through their interests in HPS
X
are individual foreign branch separate units under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(B). These individual separate units are also combined into a single separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). Unless an exception under § 1.1503(d)-6 applies, dual consolidated losses attributable to P's and S's combined interests in HPS
X
can only be used to offset income attributable to their combined interests in HPS
X
(other than income attributable to P's and S's combined interests in the Country Y foreign branch separate unit), subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c). Similarly, dual consolidated losses attributable to P's and S's combined interests in the Country Y operations of HPS
X
can only be used to offset income attributable to their combined interests in such Country Y operations, subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c). Neither FS
X
's interest in HPS
X
, nor its share of the Country Y operations owned by HPS
X
, is a separate unit because FS
X
is not a domestic corporation.
(5)
Example 5. Foreign use—general rule and de minimis reduction exception
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
. DE1
X
owns FS
X
. In year 1, there is a $100x loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
that is a dual consolidated loss. Also in year 1, FS
X
earns $200x of income. DE1
X
and FS
X
file a Country X consolidated tax return. For Country X tax purposes, the year 1 $100x loss of DE1
X
is used to offset $100x of year 1 income generated by FS
X
. Under Country X tax law, unused losses are carried forward and available to offset income in subsequent taxable years.
(ii)
Result.
The $100x loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
is available to, and in fact does, offset FS
X
's income under the laws of Country X. In addition, under U.S. tax principles, such income is considered to be an item of FS
X
, a foreign corporation. As a result, under § 1.1503(d)-3(a), there has been a foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. Therefore, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to the loss as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2), and such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). The result would be the same even if FS
X
, under Country X tax law, had no income against which the dual consolidated loss of DE1
X
could be offset (unless FS
X
's ability to use the loss under Country X tax law requires an election, and no such election is made).
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, except that FS
X
cannot use the loss of DE1
X
under Country X tax law without an election, and no such election is made. Pursuant to the exception in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(2), there is no foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. In addition, P files a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to its interest in DE1
X
and, at the beginning of year 3, P sells its interest in DE1
X
to F, a Country Y entity that is a foreign corporation. The sale of the interest in DE1
X
to F results in
a foreign use triggering event pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(i) because, immediately after the sale, the loss attributable to the interest in DE1
X
carries over under Country X law and, therefore, is available under U.S. tax principles to offset income of the owner of the interest in DE1
X
which, in the hands of F, is not a separate unit. It is also a foreign use because the loss is available under U.S. tax principles to offset the income of F, a foreign corporation. See § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1). Finally, the transfer is a triggering event pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v).
(iv)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, except that P only sells 5 percent of its interest in DE1
X
to F. Pursuant to Rev. Rul. 99-5 (1999-1 CB 434), see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter, the transaction is treated as if P sold 5 percent of its interest in each of DE1
X
's assets to F, and then immediately thereafter P and F transferred their interests in the assets of DE1
X
to a partnership in exchange for an ownership interest therein. The sale of the 5 percent interest in DE1
X
generally results in a foreign use triggering event because a portion of the dual consolidated loss carries over under Country X tax law and is available under U.S. tax principles to offset income of the owner of the interest in DE1
X
, a hybrid entity, which in the hands of F is not a separate unit. It is also a foreign use because the loss is available under U.S. tax principles to offset the income of F, a foreign corporation. See § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1). However, pursuant to the exception under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(5) (relating to a de minimis reduction of an interest in a separate unit), such availability does not result in a foreign use. In addition, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(1) and (3), the deemed transfers pursuant to Rev. Rul. 99-5 as a result of the sale are not treated as triggering events described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) or (v).
(6)
Example 6. Foreign use and indirect foreign use—foreign reverse hybrid structure and disregarded payments
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
. DE1
X
owns 99 percent and S owns 1 percent of FRH
X
, a Country X partnership that elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. tax purposes. FRH
X
conducts a trade or business in Country X. In year 1, DE1
X
incurs interest expense on a third-party loan, which constitutes a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. In year 1, for Country X tax purposes, DE1
X
takes into account its distributive share of income generated by FRH
X
and offsets such income with its interest expense.
(ii)
Result.
In year 1, the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
is available to, and in fact does, offset income recognized in Country X and, under U.S. tax principles, the income is considered to be income of FRH
X
, a foreign corporation. Accordingly, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1), there is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss. Therefore, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to its interest in DE1
X
, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2), and such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).
(iii)
Alternative facts.
(A) The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, except as follows. Instead of owning DE1
X
, P owns DE3
Y
which, in turn, owns DE1
X
. In addition, DE3
Y
, rather than DE1
X
, is the obligor on the third-party loan and therefore incurs the interest expense on such loan. Finally, DE3
Y
on-lends the loan proceeds from the third-party loan to DE1
X
, and DE1
X
pays interest to DE3
Y
on such loan that is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes.
(B) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(ii), for purposes of calculating income or a dual consolidated loss, DE3
Y
and DE1
X
do not take into account interest income or interest expense, respectively, with respect to amounts paid on the disregarded loan from DE3
Y
to DE1
X
. But see § 1.1503(d)-1(d), which takes into account certain payments that are otherwise disregarded for purposes of section 1503(d) and the regulations thereunder. As a result, such items neither create a dual consolidated loss with respect to the interest in DE1
X
, nor do they reduce (or eliminate) the dual consolidated loss attributable to the interest in DE3
Y
. Thus, in year 1, there is a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3
Y
, but not to P's indirect interest in DE1
X
.
(C) In year 1, interest expense paid by DE1
X
to DE3
Y
on the disregarded loan is taken into account as a deduction in computing DE1
X
's taxable income for Country X tax purposes, but does not give rise to a corresponding item of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes (because it is generally disregarded). In addition, such interest has the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3
Y
available for a foreign use. This is the case because it may reduce or offset items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss for foreign tax purposes, and creates another deduction or loss that may reduce or offset income of DE1
X
for foreign tax purposes that, under U.S. tax principles, is treated as income of FRH
X
, a foreign corporation. Moreover, because the disregarded item is incurred or taken into account as interest for foreign tax purposes, it is deemed to have been incurred or taken into account with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d). Accordingly, there is an indirect foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3
Y
, and P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). Thus, the loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).
(7)
Example 7. Indirect foreign use—hybrid instrument
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FS
X
. DE1
X
borrows cash from an unrelated lender and transfers the cash to FS
X
in exchange for an instrument (hybrid instrument). The hybrid instrument is treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes and debt for Country X tax purposes. Interest expense on the loan from the unrelated lender results in a dual consolidated loss being attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
in year 1. DE1
X
does not elect under Country X law to consolidate with FS
X
. In year 1, FS
X
distributes its stock as a payment on the hybrid instrument to DE1
X
. For U.S. tax purposes, such payment is excluded from P's gross income under section 305. However, for Country X tax purposes, such payment is treated as interest and gives rise to a deduction taken into account in computing FS
X
's Country X tax liability; the payment also gives rise to interest income to DE1
X
for Country X tax purposes.
(ii)
Result.
The payment on the hybrid instrument does not give rise to an item of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes and therefore does not reduce (or eliminate) the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. In addition, such payment is taken into account as a deduction in computing FS
X
's taxable income for Country X tax purposes. Moreover, such payment has the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
available for a foreign use. This is the case because it may reduce or offset items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss for foreign tax purposes, and creates a deduction that reduces or offsets income of FS
X
for foreign tax purposes that, under U.S. tax principles, is income of a foreign corporation. Further, because the item is incurred, or taken into account, using an instrument that is treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes and debt for foreign tax purposes, it is deemed to have been engaged in with the principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d). As a result, there has been an indirect foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss, and P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). Thus, the year 1 dual consolidated loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).
(8)
Example 8. No indirect foreign use—transaction entered into in the ordinary course of business
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
and FB
Y
. FB
Y
is a foreign branch separate unit located in Country Y. DE1
X
owns FB
X
and FS
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). Under Country X tax laws, DE1
X
elects to consolidate with FS
X
. FB
Y
engages in the business of providing services and, in connection with its ordinary course of business, provides services to unrelated third parties and to DE1
X
. As compensation for services, DE1
X
makes a payment to FB
Y
. Under Country X tax law, the
payment is deductible. However, the payment is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes and, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(ii), is not taken into account in calculating the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit or FB
Y
. In year 1, the Country X separate unit and FB
Y
each has a dual consolidated loss. The dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit is subject to the domestic use limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) because DE1
X
and FS
X
elect to consolidate and, as a result, the dual consolidated loss is put to a foreign use.
(ii)
Result.
The payment made by DE1
X
to FB
Y
in connection with the performance of services is taken into account as a deduction in computing DE1
X
's taxable income for Country X tax purposes, but does not give rise to an item of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes. In addition, such payment has the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss attributable to FB
Y
available for a foreign use. This is the case because it may reduce or offset items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss of FB
Y
for foreign tax purposes, and creates another deduction that reduces or offsets income of FS
X
for foreign tax purposes (because DE1
X
and FS
X
elect to file a consolidated return) that, under U.S. tax principles, is income of a foreign corporation. However, the transaction between DE1
X
and FB
Y
was entered into in the ordinary course of FB
Y
's trade or business. As a result, if P can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the transaction was not entered into with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d), FB
Y
's year 1 dual consolidated loss will not be treated as having been made available for an indirect foreign use. In such a case, P would be entitled to make a domestic use election with respect to such loss.
(9)
Example 9. Foreign use—dual resident corporation with hybrid entity joint venture
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DRC
X
, a member of the P consolidated group. DRC
X
owns 80 percent of HPS
X
, a Country X entity that is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. HPS
X
is classified as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes. FS
X
owns the remaining 20 percent of HPS
X
. In year 1, DRC
X
generates a $100x net operating loss (without regard to items attributable to DRC
X
's interest in HPS
X
). Also in year 1, HPS
X
generates $100x of income, $80x of which is attributable to DRC
X
's interest in HPS
X
. DRC
X
and HPS
X
file a consolidated tax return for Country X tax purposes, and HPS
X
offsets its $100x of income with the $100x loss generated by DRC
X
.
(ii)
Result.
DRC
X
and its interest in HPS
X
are not combined because DRC
X
is a dual resident corporation and the combination rule under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii) only applies to separate units. The $100x year 1 net operating loss incurred by DRC
X
(without regard to items attributable to DRC
X
's interest in HPS
X
) is a dual consolidated loss. In addition, HPS
X
is a hybrid entity and DRC
X
's interest in HPS
X
is a hybrid entity separate unit; however, there is no dual consolidated loss attributable to such separate unit in year 1 (instead, there is $80x of income attributable to such separate unit). DRC
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss offsets $100x of income for Country X purposes, and $20x of such income is, under U.S. tax principles, income of FS
X
, which owns an interest in HPS
X
that is not a separate unit (in addition, FS
X
is a foreign corporation). As a result, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a), there is a foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
, and P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). Therefore, such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). The result would be the same even if HPS
X
, under Country X laws, had no income against which the dual consolidated loss could be offset (unless the ability to use the loss under Country X laws required an election, and no such election is made).
(10)
Example 10. Foreign use—foreign parent corporation
—(i)
Facts.
F1 and F2, nonresident alien individuals, each owns 50 percent of FP
X
, a Country X entity that is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. FP
X
is classified as a foreign corporation for U.S. tax purposes. FP
X
owns DRC
X
. DRC
X
is the parent of a consolidated group that
includes as a member DS, a domestic corporation. In year 1, DRC
X
incurs a dual consolidated loss of $100x and, for Country X tax purposes, FP
X
generates $100x of income. In year 1, FP
X
elects to consolidate with DRC
X
for Country X tax purposes, and the $100x year 1 loss of DRC
X
is used to offset the income of FP
X
under the laws of Country X. For U.S. tax purposes, the items of FP
X
do not constitute items of income in year 1.
(ii)
Result.
The year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
offsets the income of FP
X
under the laws of Country X. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a), the offset constitutes a foreign use because the items constituting such income are considered under U.S. tax principles to be items of a foreign corporation. This is the case even though the United States does not recognize such items as income in year 1. Therefore, DRC
X
cannot make a domestic use election with respect to its year 1 dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). As a result, such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, except that FP
X
is classified as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes. The result would be the same as in paragraph (c)(10)(ii) of this section, because the offset of the income generated by FP
X
is a foreign use pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a). This is the case because the items constituting such income are considered under U.S. tax principles to be items of F1 and F2, the owners of interests in FP
X
(a hybrid entity), that are not separate units. Moreover, the result would be the same if F1 and F2 owned their interests in FP
X
indirectly through another partnership.
(11)
Example 11. No foreign use—deemed ordering rule.
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
and DRC
X
. DRC
X
is a member of the P consolidated group and owns FS
X
. DE1
X
owns FB
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and P's indirect interest in FB
X
are individual separate units that are combined into a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, DRC
X
incurs a $200x net operating loss and $200x of income is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. The $200x net operating loss incurred by DRC
X
is a dual consolidated loss. FS
X
also earns $200x of income in year 1. DRC
X
, DE1
X
, and FS
X
file a Country X consolidated tax return.
(ii)
Result.
Under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(3)(i), DRC
X
's $200x loss shall be treated as having been made available to offset the $200x of income attributable to P's Country X separate unit. P's Country X separate unit is not, under U.S. tax principles, a foreign corporation, and there is no interest in DE1
X
(which is a hybrid entity) that is not a separate unit. As a result, DRC
X
's loss being made available to offset the income attributable to P's Country X separate unit is not considered a foreign use of such loss. Therefore, P can make a domestic use election with respect to DRC
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss.
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this section, except that in year 1 only $150x of income is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. Because only $150x of income is attributed to P's Country X separate unit, $50x of DRC
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss is treated as being made available to offset the income of FS
X
, a foreign corporation, and therefore constitutes a foreign use. As a result, DRC
X
cannot make a domestic use election with respect to its year 1 dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2), and such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).
(12)
Example 12. No foreign use—absence of foreign loss usage ordering rules
—(i)
Facts.
(A) P owns DRC
X
, a member of the P consolidated group. DRC
X
owns FS
X
. Under the Country X consolidation regime, a consolidated group may elect in any given year to use all or a portion of the losses of one consolidated group member to offset income of other consolidated group members. If no such election is made in a year in which losses are generated by a consolidated member, such losses carry forward and are available, at the election of the consolidated group, to offset income of consolidated group members in subsequent taxable years. Country X law does not provide ordering rules for determining when a loss
from a particular taxable year is used because, under Country X law, losses never expire. In addition, Country X law does not provide ordering rules for determining when a particular type of loss (for example, capital or ordinary) is used.
(B) In year 1, DRC
X
incurs a capital loss of $80x which, under § 1.1503(d)-5(b)(2), is not a dual consolidated loss. DRC
X
also incurs a net operating loss of $80x in year 1 which is a dual consolidated loss. FS
X
generates $60x of capital gain in year 1 which, for Country X purposes, can be offset by capital losses and net operating losses. Under the laws of Country X, DRC
X
elects to use $60x of its total year 1 loss of $160x to offset the $60x of capital gain generated by FS
X
in year 1; the remaining $100x of year 1 loss carries forward. In both year 2 and year 3, DRC
X
incurs a net operating loss of $100x, while FS
X
incurs no income or loss in years 2 and 3. DRC
X
's $100x losses incurred in year 2 and year 3 are dual consolidated losses. Because DRC
X
does not elect under the laws of Country X to use all or a portion of its year 2 or year 3 net operating losses of $100x to offset the income of other members of the Country X consolidated group, P is permitted to make (and in fact does make) a domestic use election with respect to both the year 2 and year 3 dual consolidated losses of DRC
X
. In year 4, DRC
X
has a net operating loss of $10x and FS
X
generates $125x of income. Country X law permits, upon an election, FS
X
's $125x of income generated in year 4 to be offset by losses (including carryover losses from prior years) of other group members. Accordingly, in year 4, DRC
X
elects to use $125x of its accumulated losses to offset the $125x of year 4 income generated by FS
X
.
(ii)
Result.
(A) Under the ordering rules of § 1.1503(d)-3(d)(3), a pro rata amount of DRC
X
's year 1 net operating loss ($30x) and capital loss ($30x) is considered to be used to offset FS
X
's year 1 $60x capital gain. As a result, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to DRC
X
's year 1 $80x dual consolidated loss because a portion of such loss is put to a foreign use.
(B) DRC
X
's $10x year 4 net operating loss is also a dual consolidated loss. Under the ordering rules of § 1.1503(d)-3(d)(1), such loss is considered to be used to offset $10x of FS
X
's year 4 $125x of income. Consequently, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. Under the ordering rules of § 1.1503(d)-3(d)(2), $50x of capital loss carryover and $50x of ordinary loss from year 1 will be considered to offset $100x of FS
X
's year 4 income because the income is first deemed to have been offset by losses the use of which would not constitute a triggering event that would result in the recapture of a dual consolidated loss. The remaining $15x of FS
X
's year 4 income is considered to be offset by losses from year 3 because it is the most recent taxable year from which a loss may be carried forward. Thus, a portion of the year 3 dual consolidated loss has been put to a foreign use and the entire year 3 dual consolidated loss is recaptured. However, none of DRC
X
's $100x year 2 net operating loss will be deemed to offset FS
X
's year 4 income. As a result, DRC
X
's year 2 dual consolidated loss will not be recaptured.
(13)
Example 13. Exception to foreign use through partnership interest
—(i)
Facts.
(A) P owns 80 percent of HPS
X
, a Country X entity subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. FS
Z
, an unrelated foreign corporation, owns the remaining 20 percent of HPS
X
. HPS
X
is classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes and carries on operations in Country X that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). P's interest in HPS
X
and P's indirect interest in the Country X branch are individual separate units that are combined into a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii).
(B) In year 1, HPS
X
incurs a loss of $100x, $80x of which is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. The $80x of loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. In year 2, HPS
X
generates $50x of income, $40x of which is attributable to P's interest in the Country X separate unit. Under Country X income tax laws, the $100x of year 1 loss incurred by HPS
X
is carried forward and offsets the $50x of income generated by HPS
X
in year 2; the remaining $50x of loss is carried forward and is available to offset income generated by HPS
X
in subsequent years. P and FS
Z
maintain their ownership interests in HPS
X
throughout years 1 and 2.
(ii)
Result.
In year 2, under the laws of Country X, the $100x of year 1 loss, which includes the $80x dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, is made available to offset income of HPS
X
. Such income is attributable to P's interest in HPS
X
, which is a separate unit. Such income also is income of FS
Z
, a foreign corporation that is an owner of an interest in HPS
X
, which is not a separate unit. However, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4), there is no foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss in year 2. This is the case because P's interest in HPS
X
as of the end of year 1 has not been reduced by more than a de minimis amount, and the portion of the $80x dual consolidated loss was made available for a foreign use in year 2 solely as a result of FS
Z
's ownership in HPS
X
and the allocation or carry forward of the dual consolidated loss as a result of such ownership.
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section, except that P also owns FS
X
. In addition, FS
X
and HPS
X
elect to file a consolidated return under Country X law. The exception to foreign use under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4) does not apply because there is a foreign use other than by reason of the dual consolidated loss being made available as a result of FS
Z
's ownership in HPS
X
and the allocation or carry forward of the dual consolidated loss as a result of such ownership. That is, the exception does not apply because there is also a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss as a result of FS
X
and HPS
X
filing a consolidated return under Country X law.
(iv)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section, except that at the end of year 2, FS
Z
contributes cash to HPS
X
in exchange for additional equity of HPS
X
. As a result of the contribution, FS
Z
's interest in HPS
X
increases from 20 percent to 30 percent, and P's interest in HPS
X
decreases from 80 percent to 70 percent. P's interest in HPS
X
is reduced within a single 12-month period by 12.5 percent (10/80), as compared to P's interest in HPS
X
as of the beginning of such 12-month period. Accordingly, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4)(iii), the exception to foreign use provided under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4)(i) does not apply. Therefore, in year 2 there is a foreign use of the $80x year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit. Such foreign use constitutes a triggering event in year 2 and the $80x year 1 dual consolidated loss is recaptured. Alternatively, if FS
Z
were a domestic corporation, there would not be a foreign use of the $80x year 1 dual consolidated loss because the loss would not be available to offset income that, under U.S. tax principles, is income of a foreign corporation or a direct or indirect owner of an interest in a hybrid entity that is not a separate unit.
(14)
Example 14. Exception to foreign use through partnership interest—combination rule
—(i)
Facts.
(A) P and FS
X
form PRS
X
. P and FS
X
each own 50 percent of PRS
X
throughout years 1 and 2. PRS
X
is treated as a partnership for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. PRS
X
owns DE
Y
. DE
Y
is a Country Y entity subject to Country Y tax on its worldwide income and disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. tax purposes. DE
Y
conducts business operations in Country Y that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). P's interest in the Country Y operations conducted by DE
Y
is an individual foreign branch separate unit. P's interest in DE
Y
, owned indirectly through PRS
X
, is a hybrid entity individual separate unit. P also owns FB
Y
, a Country Y foreign branch individual separate unit. Under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), FB
Y
and P's indirect interests in DE
Y
and DE
Y
's Country Y business operations are treated as a combined separate unit (Country Y separate unit).
(B) In year 1, there is a $100x loss attributable to the Country Y business operations conducted by DE
Y
. Thus, there is a $50x loss attributable to P's interest in DE
Y
's Country Y business operations in year 1. Also in year 1, there is a $200x loss attributable to FB
Y
. No income or loss is attributable
to P's interest in DE
Y
in year 1. Under § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii), the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's combined Country Y separate unit is $250x ($50x loss attributable to P's indirect interest in DE
Y
's Country Y operations, plus $200x loss attributable to FB
Y
). In year 2, neither DE
Y
nor DE
Y
's Country Y operations generates income or loss. Under Country Y law, the $100x of year 1 loss incurred by DE
Y
is carried forward and is available to offset income of DE
Y
in year 2.
(ii)
Result.
As a result of the carryover of the year 1 $100x loss (which includes $50x of the year 1 dual consolidated loss) under Country Y law, a portion of such loss will be available to offset income of DE
Y
that is attributable to P's interest in DE
Y
owned indirectly through PRS
X
. A portion of such loss will also be available to offset income of DE
Y
that is attributable to FS
X
's indirect ownership of DE
Y
. Accordingly, under § 1.1503(d)-3(a), there would be a foreign use of a portion of P's $250x year 1 dual consolidated loss because it is available to offset an item of income of the owner of an interest in a hybrid entity, which is not a separate unit (there would also be a foreign use in this case because FS
X
is a foreign corporation). However, there has not been a reduction of P's interest in DE
Y
, DE
Y
has not consolidated under the laws of Country Y, and there has not been any other foreign use of the dual consolidated losses. As a result, no foreign use occurs as a result of the carryforward pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4)(i) and (ii).
(15)
Example 15. No foreign use—asset basis carryover exception
—(i)
Facts.
P owns FB
X
and FS
X
. In year 1, there is a dual consolidated loss attributable to FB
X
. P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are taken into account in calculating FB
X
's dual consolidated loss include depreciation deductions attributable to FB
X
's assets. P makes a domestic use election under § 1.1503(d)-6(d) with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of FB
X
. At the end of year 2, P contributes a portion of FB
X
's assets to FS
X
, in exchange for stock in FS
X
. The aggregate adjusted basis of the assets transferred by P to FS
X
is less than 10 percent of the aggregate adjusted basis of all of FB
X
's assets held at the beginning of year 2. In addition, no other assets of FB
X
are transferred during the certification period. Under Country X law, FS
X
's basis in the transferred assets is determined by reference to P's basis in such assets. In addition, under Country X law, a portion of the depreciation deductions that were taken into account in year 1 for U.S. tax purposes, are taken into account in year 2 for Country X tax purposes.
(ii)
Result.
As a result of the transfer of assets from P to FS
X
, a portion of the year 1 dual consolidated loss is available for a foreign use. This is the case because a portion of the basis in FB
X
's assets, which gave rise to depreciation deductions that were taken into account in computing the year 1 dual consolidated loss, will give rise to a depreciation deduction under Country X laws that will be available, under U.S. tax principles, to offset the income of FS
X
, a foreign corporation, in year 2. However, the aggregate adjusted basis of all the assets transferred by P to FS
X
, within the 12-month period ending at the end of year 2, is less than 10 percent of the aggregate adjusted basis of all of FB
X
's assets at the beginning of such 12-month period. Moreover, the aggregate adjusted basis of the assets transferred by P to FS
X
at any time during the certification period is less than 30 percent of the aggregate adjusted basis of FB
X
's assets held at the end of year 1. In addition, the item of deduction giving rise to the foreign use is being made available solely as a result of the adjusted basis of the transferred assets being determined in whole, or in part, by reference to the adjusted basis of such transferred assets in the hands of FB
X
. As a result, this transfer will not result in a foreign use pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(6).
(16)
Example 16. No foreign use—liability assumption exception
—(i)
Facts.
P owns FB
X
. In year 1, there is a dual consolidated loss attributable to FB
X
for which P makes a domestic use election under § 1.1503(d)-6(d). The dual consolidated loss includes a deduction for salary expense that was deductible for U.S. tax purposes at the end of year 1, even though it was not paid until year 2. The deduction was incurred in the
ordinary course of FB
X
's trade or business. During year 2, and before the accrued salary expense liability was paid, P sells all the assets of FB
X
to FS
X
in exchange for cash and FS
X
's assumption of the liabilities of the FB
X
trade or business, including the obligation to pay the accrued salary expense. Under Country X law, the accrued salary expense of FB
X
is deductible, and is taken into account for purposes of computing the taxable income of FB
X
, when paid. FB
X
pays the accrued salary expense after the sale of FB
X
to FS
X
.
(ii)
Result.
(A) As a result of FS
X
's assumption of the FB
X
liabilities, including the accrued salary expense, a portion of the dual consolidated loss is available for a foreign use in year 2. This is the case because the deduction that was taken into account in year 1 in computing the dual consolidated loss under U.S. tax principles will, under Country X tax law, be taken into account and will be available to offset the income of FS
X
, a foreign corporation, in year 2. However, because this item of expense is made available solely as a result of the assumption of a liability of FB
X
, and such liability was incurred in the ordinary course of FB
X
's trade or business, there will not be a foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(7).
(B) The transfer of all the assets of FB
X
to FS
X
is a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv), unless P can rebut the triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2). For purposes of determining whether, under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(ii), the transfer of assets resulted in a carryover under foreign law of FB
X
's losses, expenses, or deductions, the exception to foreign use for the assumption of liabilities is taken into account. However, the other exceptions to foreign use do not apply for this purpose (or for purposes of demonstrating that no foreign use of a dual consolidated loss can occur in any other year under § 1.1503(d)-6(c), (e)(2)(i) or (j)(2)). See § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(1). Provided the other requirements of § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(ii) and (iii) are satisfied, P may be able to rebut the occurrence of a triggering event upon the transfer of FB
X
's assets to FS
X
.
(17)
Example 17. Mirror legislation rule—dual resident corporation and hybrid entity separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DRC
X
, a member of the P consolidated group. DRC
X
owns FS
X
. In year 1, DRC
X
incurs a $100x net operating loss that is a dual consolidated loss. To prevent corporations like DRC
X
from offsetting losses both against income of affiliates in Country X and against income of foreign affiliates under the tax laws of another country, Country X mirror legislation prevents a corporation that is subject to the income tax of another country on its worldwide income or on a residence basis from using the Country X form of consolidation. Accordingly, the Country X mirror legislation prevents the loss of DRC
X
from being made available to offset income of FS
X
.
(ii)
Result.
Under § 1.1503(d)-3(e), because the losses of DRC
X
are subject to Country X's mirror legislation, there is a deemed foreign use of DRC
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss. The stand-alone exception to the mirror rule in § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2) does not apply because, absent the mirror legislation, DRC
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss would be available for a foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3), without regard to whether such availability is limited by election or similar procedure. That is, absent the mirror legislation, all or a portion of the dual consolidated loss would be available to offset the income of FS
X
under the Country X consolidation regime. This is the case even if Country X did not recognize DRC
X
as having a loss in year 1. Therefore, P may not make a domestic use election with respect to DRC
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(d)(2).
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(17)(i) of this section, except that P owns DE1
X
(rather than DRC
X
) and, in year 1, there is a $100 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
(rather than of DRC
X
). The Country X mirror legislation only applies to Country X dual resident corporations and, therefore, does not apply to losses attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. As a result, the mirror legislation rule under § 1.1503(d)-3(e) would not deny the opportunity of such loss from being
put to a foreign use (for example, by offsetting the income of FS
X
through the Country X consolidation regime). Therefore, a domestic use election can be made with respect to the dual consolidated loss (provided the conditions for such an election are otherwise satisfied).
(18)
Example 18. Mirror legislation rule—standalone foreign branch separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
P owns FB
X
. In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to FB
X
. Country X enacted mirror legislation to prevent Country X branches and permanent establishments of nonresident corporations from offsetting losses both against income of Country X affiliates and against other income of its owner (or foreign affiliates thereof) under the tax laws of another country. The Country X mirror legislation prevents a Country X branch or permanent establishment of a nonresident corporation from offsetting its losses against the income of Country X affiliates if such losses may be deductible against income (other than income of the Country X branch or permanent establishment) under the laws of another country.
(ii)
Result.
In general, under § 1.1503(d)-3(e), because the losses of FB
X
are subject to Country X's mirror legislation, there is a deemed foreign use of FB
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss. However, in the absence of the Country X mirror legislation, no item of deduction or loss composing FB
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss would be available in the year incurred for a foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3), without regard to whether such availability is limited by election or otherwise. This is the case because there is no Country X entity through which the dual consolidated loss could be put to a foreign use (absent a sale, merger, or similar transaction involving FB
X
). As a result, the stand-alone exception in § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2) may apply, provided P complies with the requirements of § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2)(ii). Accordingly, P may make a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of FB
X
pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d). If, however, any item of the dual consolidated loss would otherwise be available for a foreign use during the certification period (for example, as a result of P acquiring a foreign corporation that is organized under the laws of Country X such that losses of FB
X
could be put to a foreign use through consolidation or similar means), then such loss would be recaptured pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(ix).
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section, except that the Country X mirror legislation operates in a manner similar to the rules under section 1503(d). That is, it allows the taxpayer to elect to use the loss to either offset income of an affiliate in Country X, or income of an affiliate (or other income of the owner of the Country X branch or permanent establishment) in the other country, but not both. Because the Country X mirror legislation permits the taxpayer to choose to put the dual consolidated loss to a foreign use, it does not deny the opportunity to put the loss to a foreign use. Therefore, there is no deemed foreign use of the dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(e) and a domestic use election can be made for such loss.
(19)
Example 19. Application of mirror legislation rule to combined separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
P owns FB
X
, FS
X
, and DE1
X
. In year 1, there is a $50x dual consolidated loss attributable to FB
X
and $10x of income attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. FS
X
has income of $100x. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), FB
X
and P's interest in DE1
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) which has a year 1 dual consolidated loss of $40x. Country X enacted mirror legislation to prevent Country X branches or permanent establishments of nonresident corporations from offsetting losses both against income of Country X affiliates and against other income of its owner (or foreign affiliates thereof) under the tax laws of another country. The Country X mirror legislation prevents a Country X branch or permanent establishment of a nonresident corporation from offsetting its losses against the income of Country X affiliates if such losses may be deductible against income (other than income of the Country X branch or permanent establishment) under the laws of another country. However, the United States and Country X have entered into an
agreement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(b) pursuant to the U.S.-Country X income tax convention (mirror agreement). The mirror agreement applies to Country X foreign branch separate units of domestic corporations, but not to Country X hybrid entity separate units. The mirror agreement provides that neither the Country X mirror legislation nor the mirror legislation rule under § 1.1503(d)-3(e) will apply to losses attributable to Country X foreign branch separate units, provided certain conditions and reporting requirements are satisfied (including a domestic use election, if the loss is to be used to offset income of a domestic affiliate). Thus, losses attributable to Country X foreign branch separate units can, subject to the requirements of the mirror agreement, be used to offset income of a domestic affiliate or a Country X affiliate (but not both).
(ii)
Result.
The Country X mirror legislation only applies to Country X foreign branch separate units and does not apply to hybrid entity separate units. In addition, if P complies with the terms and conditions of the mirror agreement, the Country X mirror legislation would not apply to FB
X
. As a result, the income tax laws of Country X would not deny the opportunity of a loss of either individual separate unit that composes P's combined Country X separate unit from being put to a foreign use. Therefore, notwithstanding § 1.1503(d)-3(e), a domestic use election can be made with respect to the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, provided the terms and conditions of the mirror agreement are satisfied. See § 1.1503(d)-6(b)(2).
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(19)(i) of this section, except that the Country X mirror legislation also applies to losses attributable to DE1
X
, but the mirror agreement does not apply to such losses. The mirror legislation rule would apply with respect to P's interest in DE1
X
and, as a result, there is a deemed foreign use of the dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit and a domestic use election cannot be made for such loss. This is the case even though, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(A), P's interest in DE1
X
(which is subject to the Country X mirror legislation) does not, as an individual separate unit, have a dual consolidated loss in year 1. Further, the stand-alone exception to the mirror legislation rule in § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2) does not apply because, absent the mirror legislation, the Country X combined separate unit's dual consolidated loss would be available in the year incurred for a foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3) because it could be used to offset income of FS
X
under the Country X consolidation regime. This is the case even if Country X requires an election to consolidate and no such election is made. The result would be the same even if Country X did not recognize DE1
X
as having a loss.
(20)
Example 20. Dual consolidated loss limitation after section 381 transaction. disposition of assets and subsequent liquidation of dual resident corporation
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DRC
X
, a member of the P consolidated group. In year 1, DRC
X
incurs a dual consolidated loss and P does not make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. Under § 1.1503(d)-4(b), DRC
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss is subject to the limitations under § 1.1503(d)-4(c) and, therefore, may not be used to offset the income of P or S (or any other domestic affiliate) on the group's U.S. income tax return. At the beginning of year 2, DRC
X
sells all of its assets for cash and distributes the cash to P pursuant to a liquidation that qualifies under section 332.
(ii)
Result.
In general, under section 381, P would succeed to, and be permitted to use, DRC
X
's net operating loss carryover. However, § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(i) prohibits the dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
from carrying over to P. Therefore, DRC
X
's year 1 net operating loss carryover is eliminated.
(21)
Example 21. Dual consolidated loss limitation applied to a separate unit transferred in a section 381 transaction
—(i)
Facts.
S owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. S's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, a dual consolidated loss is attributable to the Country X separate unit, and P does not make a domestic use election with
respect to such loss. Under § 1.1503(d)-4(b), the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit may not be used to offset the income of P or S (other than income attributable to the Country X separate unit, subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c)) on the group's consolidated U.S. income tax return (nor may it be used to offset the income of any other domestic affiliates). At the beginning of year 2, S transfers its entire interest in DE1
X
, and thus its entire indirect interest in FB
X
, to FS
X
in a transaction described in section 381.
(ii)
Result.
Section 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(ii) provides that the dual consolidated loss attributable to a separate unit that is subject to the domestic use limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) is eliminated if the separate unit ceases to be a separate unit of its affiliated domestic owner and all other members of the affiliated domestic owner's separate group. As a result of the transfer of the Country X separate unit to FS
X
, the Country X separate unit ceases to be a separate unit of S, and is not a separate unit of any other member of the P consolidated group. In addition, the exceptions in § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(2)(iii) do not apply because FS
X
is not a domestic corporation. Thus, the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit is eliminated.
(iii)
Alternative facts.
Assume the same facts as in paragraph (c)(21)(i) of this section, except S transfers its assets to DC, a domestic corporation that is not a member of the P consolidated group, in a transaction described in section 381(a). Immediately after the transaction, the Country X separate unit is a separate unit of DC. Under § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(ii), the year 1 dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit would be eliminated because it ceases to be a separate unit of S, and is not a separate unit of any other member of the P consolidated group. However, because the transferee is a domestic corporation and the Country X separate unit is a separate unit in the hands of DC immediately after the transaction, the exception under § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(2)(iii)(A) applies. As a result, the year 1 dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit is not eliminated and any income generated by DC that is attributable to the Country X separate unit following the transfer may be offset by the carryover dual consolidated losses attributable to the Country X separate unit, subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c) applied as if DC generated the dual consolidated loss and such loss was attributable to the Country X separate unit.
(iv)
Alternative facts.
Assume the same facts as in paragraph (c)(21)(iii) of this section, except that P owns DE2
X
and the interest in DE2
X
is combined with and therefore included in the Country X separate unit. In addition, a portion of the dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit is attributable to P's interest in DE2
X
. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(2)(iii)(A), the result would be the same as in paragraph (c)(21)(iii) of this section, with respect to the portion of the dual consolidated loss attributable to the combined separate unit that is succeeded to and taken into account by DC pursuant to section 381. The portion of the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE2
X
, however, does not carry over to DC but is retained by P and continues to be subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c) with respect to P's interest in DE2
X
.
(v)
Alternative facts.
Assume the same facts as in paragraph (c)(21)(iv) of this section, except that DC is a member of the P consolidated group. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(2)(iii)(B), the dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit is not eliminated and income attributable to the Country X separate unit may continue to be offset by the dual consolidated loss that is succeeded to and taken into account by DC pursuant to section 381, subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c). The result would be the same even if the interest in DE1
X
ceased to be a separate unit in the hands of DC (for example, because it dissolved under Country X law in connection with the transaction), provided P, or another member of the P consolidated group, continued to own a portion of the Country X separate unit.
(22)
Example 22. Tainted income
—(i)
Facts.
P owns 100 percent of DRC
Z
, a domestic corporation that is included as a member of the P consolidated group.
DRC
Z
conducts a business in the United States. During year 1, DRC
Z
was managed and controlled in Country Z and therefore was subject to tax as a resident of Country Z and was a dual resident corporation. In year 1, DRC
Z
incurred a dual consolidated loss of $200x, and P did not make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. As a result, such loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). At the end of year 1, DRC
Z
moved its management and control to the United States and, as a result, ceased being a dual resident corporation. At the beginning of year 2, P transferred asset A, a non-depreciable asset, to DRC
Z
in exchange for common stock in a transaction that qualified for nonrecognition under section 351. At the time of the transfer, P's tax basis in asset A equaled $50x and the fair market value of asset A equaled $100x. The tax basis of asset A in the hands of DRC
Z
immediately after the transfer equaled $50x pursuant to section 362. Asset A did not constitute replacement property acquired in the ordinary course of business. DRC
Z
did not generate income or gain during years 2, 3, or 4. On June 30, year 5, DRC
Z
sold asset A to a third party for $100x, its fair market value at the time of the sale, and recognized $50x of income on such sale. In addition to the $50x income generated on the sale of asset A, DRC
Z
generated $100x of operating income in year 5. At the end of year 5, the fair market value of all the assets of DRC
Z
was $400x.
(ii)
Result.
DRC
Z
ceased being a dual resident corporation at the end of year 1. Therefore, its year 1 dual consolidated loss cannot be offset by tainted income. Asset A is a tainted asset because it was acquired in a nonrecognition transaction after DRC
Z
ceased being a dual resident corporation (and was not replacement property acquired in the ordinary course of business). As a result, the $50x of income recognized by DRC
Z
on the disposition of asset A is tainted income and cannot be offset by the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
Z
. In addition, absent evidence establishing the actual amount of tainted income, $25x of the $100x year 5 operating income of DRC
Z
(($100x/$400x) × $100x) also is treated as tainted income and cannot be offset by the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
Z
under § 1.1503(d)-4(e)(2)(ii). Therefore, $75x of the $150x year 5 income of DRC
Z
constitutes tainted income and may not be offset by the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
Z
; however, the remaining $75x of year 5 income of DRC
Z
may be offset by such dual consolidated loss. The result would be the same if, instead of P transferring asset A to DRC
Z
, such asset was received from a separate unit or a transparent entity of DRC
Z
.
(23)
Example 23. Treatment of disregarded item and books and records of a hybrid entity
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FS
X
. In year 1, P borrows from a third party and on-lends the proceeds to DE1
X
. In year 1, P incurs interest expense attributable to the third-party loan. Also in year 1, DE1
X
incurs interest expense attributable to its loan from P, but such expense is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes because DE1
X
is disregarded as an entity separate from P. The third-party loan and related interest expense are reflected on the books and records of P (and not on the books and records of DE1
X
). The loan from P to DE1
X
and related interest expense are reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
. There are no other items of income, gain, deduction, or loss reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
in year 1.
(ii)
Result.
Because the interest expense on P's third-party loan is not reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
, no portion of such expense is attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3) for purposes of calculating the year 1 dual consolidated loss, if any, attributable to such interest. In addition, even though P's interest in DE1
X
is treated as a separate domestic corporation for purposes of determining the amount of income or dual consolidated loss attributable to it pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(ii), such treatment does not cause the interest expense incurred on the loan from P to DE1
X
that is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes to be regarded for purposes of calculating the year 1 dual consolidated loss, if any, attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. As a result, even though the disregarded
interest expense is reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
, it is not taken into account for purposes of calculating income or a dual consolidated loss. But see § 1.1503(d)-1(d), which takes into account certain payments that are otherwise disregarded for purposes of section 1503(d) and the regulations thereunder. Therefore, there is no dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
in year 1.
(24)
Example 24. Dividend income attributable to a separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). DE1
X
owns DE3
Y
. DE3
Y
owns the stock of FS
X
. P's Country X separate unit would, without regard to year 1 dividend income (or related section 78 gross-up) received from FS
X
, have a dual consolidated loss of $75x in year 1. In year 1, FS
X
distributes $50x to DE3
Y
that is taxable as a dividend. DE3
Y
distributes the same amount to DE1
X
. P computes foreign taxes deemed paid on the dividend under section 902 of $25x and includes that amount in gross income under section 78.
(ii)
Result.
The $50x dividend is reflected on the books and records of DE3
Y
and, therefore, is attributable to P's interest in DE3
Y
pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). In addition, the $25x section 78 gross-up is attributable to P's interest in DE3
Y
pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(iv). The distribution of $50x from DE3
Y
to DE1
X
is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes and, therefore, does not give rise to an item that is taken into account for purposes of calculating income or a dual consolidated loss. This is the case even though the item would be reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
. In addition, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(iii), each separate unit must calculate its own income or dual consolidated loss, and each item of income, gain, deduction, and loss must be taken into account only once. As a result, the dual consolidated loss of $75x attributable to P's Country X separate unit in year 1 is not reduced by the amount of dividend income attributable to P's indirect interest in DE3
Y
.
(25)
Example 25. Items reflected on books and records of a combined separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). The following items are reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
in year 1: Sales, depreciation expense, a political contribution, royalty expense paid to P, repairs and maintenance expense paid to a third party, and Country X income tax expense. The amount of sales under U.S. tax principles equals the amount of sales reported for accounting purposes. The depreciation expense is calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset for accounting purposes, but is subject to accelerated depreciation for U.S. tax purposes. In addition, the repairs and maintenance expense, which is deducted when paid for accounting purposes, is properly capitalized and amortized over five years for U.S. tax purposes. Finally, P elects to claim as a credit under section 901 the Country X income tax expense that was paid in year 1.
(ii)
Result.
(A) For purposes of determining the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, items of income, gain, deduction, and loss must first be attributed to the individual separate units (that is, P's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
). For purposes of attributing items to P's interest in DE1
X
, P's items that are reflected on DE1
X
's books and records, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are taken into account. See § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). For purposes of attributing items (other than interest expense) to FB
X
, the principles of section 864(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5) (as set forth in § 1.864-4(c) and §§ 1.864-5 through 1.864-7) must be applied and, for interest expense, the principles of § 1.882-5, as modified under § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(2)(ii), must be applied; however, for these purposes, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(i)(A), FB
X
only takes into account items attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
and the assets, liabilities, and activities of such interest. In addition, to the extent such items are
taken into account by FB
X
, they are not taken into account in determining the items attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(i)(B). Because P's interest in DE1
X
has no assets or liabilities, and conducts no activities, other than through its ownership of FB
X
, all of the items that are reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are attributable to FB
X
; no items are attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
.
(B) The items reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
must be adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles. No adjustment is required to sales because the amount of sales under U.S. tax principles equals the amount of sales for accounting purposes. The amount of straight-line depreciation expense reflected on DE1
X
's books and records must be adjusted to reflect the amount of depreciation on the asset that is allowable for U.S. tax purposes. The political contribution is not taken into account because it is not deductible for U.S. tax purposes. Similarly, because the royalty expense is paid to P, and therefore is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes, it is not taken into account. But see § 1.1503(d)-1(d), which takes into account certain payments that are otherwise disregarded for purposes of section 1503(d) and the regulations thereunder. The repair and maintenance expense that is deducted in year 1 for accounting purposes also must be adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles. Thus, the repair and maintenance expense will be taken into account in computing the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit over five years (even though no item related to such expense would be reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
for years 2 through 5). Finally, because P elected to claim as a credit the Country X foreign taxes paid during year 1, no deduction is allowed for such amount pursuant to section 275(a)(4) and, therefore, the Country X tax expense is not taken into account.
(C) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(B), the combined Country X separate unit of P calculates its income or dual consolidated loss by taking into account all the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that were separately attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
and FB
X
. However, in this case, there are no items attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. Therefore, the items attributable to the Country X separate unit are the items attributable to FB
X
.
(26)
Example 26. Items attributable to a combined separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
. DE1
X
owns a 50 percent interest in PRS
Z
, a Country Z entity that is classified as a partnership both for Country Z tax purposes and for U.S. tax purposes. FS
X
, which is unrelated to P, owns the remaining 50 percent interest in PRS
Z
. PRS
Z
carries on operations in Country X that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). Therefore, P's share of the Country X operations carried on by PRS
Z
constitutes a foreign branch separate unit. PRS
Z
also owns assets that do not constitute a part of its Country X branch, including all of the interests in TE
T
, a disregarded entity. TE
T
is an entity incorporated under the laws of Country T, a country that does not have an income tax. Under the laws of Country X, an interest holder of TE
T
does not take into account on a current basis the interest holder's share of items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of TE
T
.
(ii)
Result.
(A) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), P's interest in DE1
X
, and P's indirect ownership of a portion of the Country X operations carried on by PRS
Z
, are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(A), for purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to the Country X separate unit, the items of P are first attributed to each separate unit that composes the Country X separate unit.
(B) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(2)(i), the principles of section 864(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5) (as set forth in § 1.864-4(c) and §§ 1.864-5 through 1.864-7), apply for purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction (other than interest expense), and loss that are attributable to P's indirect interest in the Country X operations carried on by PRS
Z
. For purposes of determining P's
interest expense that is attributable to P's indirect interest in the Country X operations carried on by PRS
Z
, the principles of § 1.882-5, as modified under § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(2)(ii), shall apply. For purposes of applying these rules, P is treated as a foreign corporation, the Country X operations carried on by PRS
Z
are treated as a trade or business within the United States, and the assets of P (including its share of the PRS
Z
assets, other than those of the Country X operations) are treated as assets that are not U.S. assets. In addition, because P carries on its share of the Country X operations through DE1
X
, a hybrid entity, § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(i)(A) provides that only the items attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
, and only the assets, liabilities, and activities of P's interest in DE1
X
, are taken into account for purposes of this determination.
(C) TE
T
is a transparent entity as defined in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(16) because it is not taxable as an association for Federal tax purposes, is not subject to income tax in a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, and is not treated as a pass-through entity under the laws of Country X (the applicable foreign country). TE
T
is not a pass-through entity under the laws of Country X because a Country X holder of an interest in TE
T
does not take into account on a current basis the interest holder's share of items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of TE
T
. For purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to P's interest in TE
T
, only those items of P that are reflected on the books and records of TE
T
, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are taken into account. § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). Because the interest in TE
T
is not a separate unit, a loss attributable to such interest is not a dual consolidated loss and is not subject to section 1503(d) and these regulations. Items must nevertheless be attributed to the interests in TE
T
. For example, such attribution is required for purposes of calculating the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit, and for purposes of applying the domestic use limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) to a dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit.
(D) For purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
, only those items of P that are reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are taken into account. § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). For this purpose, DE1
X
's distributive share of the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are reflected on the books and records of PRS
Z
, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are treated as being reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
, except to the extent such items are taken into account by the Country X operations of PRS
Z
. See § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(ii) and (4)(i)(B). Because TE
T
is a transparent entity, the items reflected on its books and records are not treated as being reflected on the books and records of DE1
X
.
(E) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(B), the combined Country X separate unit of P calculates its income or dual consolidated loss by taking into account all the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that were separately attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
and the Country X operations of PRS
Z
owned indirectly by P.
(27)
Example 27. Sale of separate unit by another separate unit
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE3
Y
which, in turn, owns DE1
X
. DE3
Y
also owns other assets that do not constitute a foreign branch separate unit. DE1
X
owns FB
X
. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), P's indirect interests in DE1
X
and FB
X
are combined and treated as one Country X separate unit (Country X separate unit). DE3
Y
sells its interest in DE1
X
at the end of year 1 to an unrelated foreign person for cash. The sale results in an ordinary loss of $30x. Items of income, gain, deduction, and loss derived from the assets that gave rise to the $30x loss would be attributable to the Country X separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-5(c) through (e). Without regard to the sale of DE1
X
, no items of income, gain, deduction, and loss are attributable to P's Country X separate unit in year 1.
(ii)
Result.
Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(iii)(A), the $30x ordinary loss
recognized on the sale is attributable to the Country X separate unit, and not P's interest in DE3
Y
. This is the case because the Country X separate unit is treated as owning the assets that gave rise to the loss under § 1.1503(d)-5(f). Thus, the loss attributable to the sale creates a year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit. In addition, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2), P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to the dual consolidated loss because the sale of the interest in DE1
X
is a triggering event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v). Further, although the year 1 dual consolidated loss would otherwise be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b), it is eliminated pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(ii). Finally, if there were a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3
Y
, the sale of the interest in DE1
X
would not be taken into account for purposes of determining whether there is an asset triggering event with respect to such dual consolidated loss under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv).
(28)
Example 28. Gain on sale of tiered separate units
—(i)
Facts.
P owns 75 percent of HPS
X
, a Country X entity subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. FS
X
owns the remaining 25 percent of HPS
X
. HPS
X
is classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes. HPS
X
carries on operations in Country Y that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). HPS
X
also owns assets that do not constitute a part of its Country Y operations and would not themselves constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1) if owned by a U.S. person. Neither HPS
X
nor the Country Y operations has liabilities. P's indirect interest in the Country Y operations carried on by HPS
X
, and P's interest in HPS
X
, are each separate units. P sells its interest in HPS
X
and recognizes a gain of $150x on such sale. Immediately prior to P's sale of its interest in HPS
X
, P's portion of the assets of the Country Y operations (that is, assets the income, gain, deduction and loss from which would be attributable to P's Country Y foreign branch separate unit) had a built-in gain of $200x, and P's portion of HPS
X
's other assets (that is, assets the income, gain, deduction and loss from which would be attributable to P's interest in HPS
X
) had a built-in gain of $100x.
(ii)
Result.
Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(iii)(B), $100x of the total $150x of gain recognized ($200x/$300x × $150x) is attributable to P's indirect interest in its share of the Country Y operations carried on by HPS
X
. Similarly, $50x of such gain ($100x/$300x × $150x) is attributable to P's interest in HPS
X
.
(29)
Example 29. Effect on domestic affiliate
—(i)
Facts.
(A) P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In years 1 and 2, the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to P's Country X separate unit pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5 are as follows:
Table 1 to paragraph
(c)(29)(i)(A)
Item
Year 1
Year 2
Sales income
$100x
$160x
Salary expense
($75x)
($75x)
Research and experimental expense
($50x)
($50x)
Interest expense
($25x)
($25x)
Income/(dual consolidated loss)
($50x)
$10x
(B) P does not make a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to its Country X separate unit. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c)(2), the year 1 dual consolidated loss of $50x is treated as a loss incurred by a separate domestic corporation and is subject to the limitations under § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(3). The P consolidated group has $100x of consolidated taxable income in year 2.
(ii)
Result.
(A) P must compute its taxable income for year 1 without taking into account the $50x dual consolidated loss, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(2). Such amount consists of a pro rata portion of the expenses that were taken into account in calculating the year 1 dual consolidated loss. Thus, the items of the dual consolidated loss that are not taken into account by P in computing its taxable income are as follows: $25x of salary expense ($75x/$150x × $50x); $16.67x of research and experimental expense ($50x/$150x × $50x);
and $8.33x of interest expense ($25x/$150x × $50x). The remaining amounts of each of these items, together with the $100x of sales income, are taken into account by P in computing its taxable income for year 1 as follows: $50x of salary expense ($75x − $25x); $33.33x of research and experimental expense ($50x − $16.67x); and $16.67x of interest expense ($25x − $8.33x).
(B) Subject to the limitations provided under § 1.1503(d)-4(c), the year 1 $50x dual consolidated loss is carried forward and is available to offset the $10x of income attributable to the Country X separate unit in year 2. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(4), a pro rata portion of each item of deduction or loss included in such dual consolidated loss is considered to be used to offset the $10x of income, as follows: $5x of salary expense ($25x / $50x × $10x); $3.33x of research and experimental expense ($16.67x/$50x × $10x); and $1.67x of interest expense ($8.33x / $50x × $10x). The remaining amount of each item shall continue to be subject to the limitations under § 1.1503(d)-4(c).
(30)
Example 30. Exception to domestic use limitation—no possibility of foreign use because items are not deducted or capitalized under foreign law
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FS
X
. In year 1, the sole item of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-5, is $100x of interest expense paid on a loan to an unrelated lender. For Country X tax purposes, the $100x interest expense attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
in year 1 is treated as a repayment of principal and therefore cannot be deducted (at any time) or capitalized.
(ii)
Result.
The $100x of interest expense attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
constitutes a dual consolidated loss. However, because the sole item constituting the dual consolidated loss cannot be deducted or capitalized (at any time) for Country X tax purposes, P can demonstrate that there can be no foreign use of the dual consolidated loss at any time. As a result, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(1), if P prepares a statement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(2) and attaches it to its timely filed tax return, the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
will not be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).
(31)
Example 31. No exception to domestic use limitation—inability to demonstrate no possibility of foreign use
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, the sole items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-5, are $75x of sales income and $100x of depreciation expense. For Country X tax purposes, DE1
X
also generates $75x of sales income in year 1, but the $100x of depreciation expense is not deductible until year 2.
(ii)
Result.
The year 1 $25x net loss attributable to P's interest in the Country X separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss. In addition, even though DE1
X
has positive income in year 1 for Country X tax purposes, P cannot demonstrate that there is no possibility of foreign use with respect to the Country X separate unit's dual consolidated loss as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(1)(i). P cannot make such a demonstration because the depreciation expense, an item composing the year 1 dual consolidated loss, is deductible (in a later year) for Country X tax purposes and, therefore, may be available to offset or reduce income for Country X purposes that would constitute a foreign use. For example, if DE1
X
elected to be classified as a corporation pursuant to § 301.7701-3(c) of this chapter effective as of the end of year 1, and the deferred depreciation expense were available for Country X tax purposes to offset year 2 income of DE1
X
, an entity treated as a foreign corporation in year 2 for U.S. tax purposes, there would be a foreign use.
(iii)
Alternative facts.
(A) The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(31)(i) of this section, except as follows. In year 1, the sole items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, as provided in § 1.1503(d)-5, are $75x of sales income, $100x of interest expense, and $25x of depreciation expense. For Country X tax purposes, DE1
X
generates $75x of
sales income in year 1; the $100x interest expense is treated as a repayment of principal and therefore cannot be deducted or capitalized (at any time); and the $25x of depreciation expense is not deductible in year 1, but is deductible in year 2.
(B) In year 1, the $50x net loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss. Even though the $100x interest expense, a nondeductible and noncapital item for Country X tax purposes, exceeds the $50x year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, P cannot demonstrate that there is no possibility of foreign use of the dual consolidated loss as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(1)(i). P cannot make such a demonstration because the $25x depreciation expense, an item of deduction or loss composing the year 1 dual consolidated loss, is deductible under Country X law (in year 2) and, therefore, may be available to offset or reduce income for Country X tax purposes that would constitute a foreign use.
(32)
Example 32. Triggering event rebuttal—expiration of losses in foreign country
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DRC
X
, a member of the P consolidated group. In year 1, DRC
X
incurs a dual consolidated loss of $100x. P makes a domestic use election with respect to DRC
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss and such loss therefore is included in the computation of the P group's consolidated taxable income. DRC
X
has no income or loss in year 2 through year 5. In year 5, P sells the stock of DRC
X
to FS
X
. At the time of the sale of the stock of DRC
X
, all of the losses and deductions that were included in the computation of the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
had expired for Country X tax purposes because the laws of Country X only provide for a three-year carryover period for such items.
(ii)
Result.
The sale of DRC
X
to FS
X
generally would be a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(ii), which would require DRC
X
to recapture the year 1 dual consolidated loss (and pay an applicable interest charge) on the P consolidated group's tax return for the year that includes the date on which DRC
X
ceases to be a member of the P consolidated group. However, upon adequate documentation that the losses and deductions have expired for Country X tax purposes, P can rebut the presumption that a triggering event has occurred pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(i). If the triggering event presumption is rebutted, the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
is terminated and has no further effect pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(i). If the presumptive triggering event is not rebutted, the domestic use agreement would terminate and have no further effect pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii) because the dual consolidated loss would be recaptured.
(33)
Example 33. Triggering events and rebuttals—tax basis carryover transaction
—(i)
Facts.
(A) P owns DE1
X
. DE1
X
's sole asset is A, which it acquired at the beginning of year 1 for $100x. DE1
X
does not have any liabilities. For U.S. tax purposes, DE1
X
's tax basis in A at the beginning of year 1 is $100x and DE1
X
's sole item of income, gain, deduction, and loss for year 1 is a $20x depreciation deduction attributable to A. As a result, the $20x depreciation deduction constitutes a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. P makes a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss.
(B) For Country X tax purposes, DE1
X
has a $100x tax basis in A at the beginning of year 1, but A is not a depreciable asset. As a result, DE1
X
does not have any items of income, gain, deduction, and loss in year 1 for Country X tax purposes.
(C) During year 2, P sells its interest in DE1
X
to FS
X
for $80x. P's disposition of its interest in DE1
X
constitutes a presumptive triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v) requiring the recapture of the year 1 $20x dual consolidated loss (plus the applicable interest charge). For Country X tax purposes, DE1
X
retains its tax basis of $100x in A following the sale.
(ii)
Result.
The year 1 dual consolidated loss is a result of the $20x depreciation deduction attributable to A. Although no item of deduction or loss was recognized by DE1
X
at the time of the sale for Country X tax purposes,
the deduction composing the dual consolidated loss was retained by DE1
X
after the sale in the form of tax basis in A. As a result, a portion of the dual consolidated loss may be available to offset income for Country X tax purposes in a manner that would constitute a foreign use. For example, if DE1
X
were to dispose of A, the amount of gain recognized by DE1
X
would be reduced (or an amount of loss recognized by DE1
X
would be increased) and, therefore, an item composing the dual consolidated loss would be available, under U.S. tax principles, to reduce income of a foreign corporation (and an owner of an interest in a hybrid entity that is not a separate unit). Thus, P cannot demonstrate pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(i) that there can be no foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss following the triggering event, and must recapture the year 1 dual consolidated loss. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss is terminated and has no further effect.
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as paragraph (c)(33)(i) of this section, except that instead of P selling its interest in DE1
X
to FS
X
, DE1
X
sells asset A to FS
X
for $80x and, for Country X tax purposes, FS
X
's tax basis in A immediately after the sale is $80x. P's disposition of Asset A constitutes a presumptive triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) requiring the recapture of the year 1 $20x dual consolidated loss (plus the applicable interest charge). For Country X tax purposes, FS
X
's tax basis in A was not determined, in whole or in part, by reference to the basis of A in the hands of DE1
X
. As a result, the deduction composing the dual consolidated loss will not give rise to an item of deduction or loss in the form of tax basis for Country X tax purposes (for example, when FS
X
disposes of A). Therefore, P may be able to demonstrate (for example, by obtaining the opinion of a Country X tax advisor) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(i) that there can be no foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss and, thus, would not be required to recapture the year 1 dual consolidated loss.
(34)
Example 34. Triggering event resulting in a single consolidated group where acquirer files a new domestic use agreement
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DRC
X
, a member of the P consolidated group. In year 1, DRC
X
incurs a dual consolidated loss and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. No member of the P consolidated group incurs a dual consolidated loss in year 2. At the end of year 2, T, the parent of the T consolidated group, acquires all the stock of P, and all the members of the P group, including DRC
X
, become members of a consolidated group of which T is the common parent.
(ii)
Result.
(A) Under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(ii)(B), the acquisition by T of the P consolidated group is not an event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(ii) requiring the recapture of the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
(and the payment of an interest charge), provided that the T consolidated group files a new domestic use agreement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii)(A). If a new domestic use agreement is filed, then pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(ii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
is terminated and has no further effect.
(B) Assume that T files a new domestic use agreement and a triggering event occurs at the end of year 3. As a result, the T consolidated group must recapture the dual consolidated loss that DRC
X
incurred in year 1 (and pay an interest charge), as provided in § 1.1503(d)-6(h). Each member of the T consolidated group, including DRC
X
and any former members of the P consolidated group, is severally liable for the additional tax (and the interest charge) due upon the recapture of the dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
. In addition, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the new domestic use agreement filed by the T group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC
X
is terminated and has no further effect.
(35)
Example 35. Triggering event exceptions for certain deemed transfers
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
. In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1
X
. P files a domestic use agreement under § 1.1503(d)-6(d) with respect to such loss. During year 2, P sells 33 percent of its
interest in DE1
X
to T, an unrelated domestic corporation.
(ii)
Result.
Pursuant to Rev. Rul. 99-5, the transaction is treated as if P sold 33 percent of its interest in each of DE1
X
's assets to T and then immediately thereafter P and T transferred their interests in the assets of DE1
X
to a partnership in exchange for an ownership interest therein. Upon the transfer of 33 percent of P's interest to T, a domestic corporation, no foreign use occurs and, therefore, there is no foreign use triggering event. However, P's deemed transfer of 67 percent of its interest in the assets of DE1
X
to a partnership is nominally a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv). Because the initial transfer of 33 percent of DE1
X
's interest was to a domestic corporation and there is only a triggering event because of the deemed transfer under Rev. Rul. 99-5, the deemed asset transfer is not treated as resulting in a triggering event pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(4).
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(35)(i) of this section, except that P sells 60 percent (rather than 33 percent) of its interest in DE1
X
to T. The sale is a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v) without regard to the occurrence of a deemed transaction. Therefore, § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(4) does not apply.
(36)
Example 36. Triggering event exception involving multiple parties
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. No member of the P consolidated group incurs a dual consolidated loss in year 2. At the end of year 2, T, the parent of the T consolidated group, acquires all of P's interest in DE1
X
for cash.
(ii)
Result.
(A) Under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(i)(B), the acquisition by T of the interest in DE1
X
is not an event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) or (v) requiring the recapture of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit (and the payment of an interest charge), provided: (1) the T consolidated group files a new domestic use agreement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii)(A) with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit; and (2) the P consolidated group files a statement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii)(B) with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss. If these requirements are satisfied, then pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(ii) the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss is terminated and has no further effect (if these requirements are not satisfied such that the P consolidated group recaptures the dual consolidated loss, the domestic use agreement would terminate pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii)).
(B) Assume a triggering event occurs at the end of year 3 that requires recapture by the T consolidated group of the year 1 dual consolidated loss, as well as the payment of an interest charge, as provided in § 1.1503(d)-6(h). T continues to own the Country X separate unit after the triggering event. In that case, each member of the T consolidated group is severally liable for the additional tax (and the interest charge) due upon the recapture of the year 1 dual consolidated loss. The T consolidated group must prepare a statement that computes the recapture tax amount as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(3)(iii). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(3)(iv)(A), the recapture tax amount is assessed as an income tax liability of the T consolidated group and is considered as having been properly assessed as an income tax liability of the P consolidated group. If the T consolidated group does not pay in full the income tax liability attributable to the recapture tax amount, the unpaid balance of such recapture tax amount may be collected from the P consolidated group in accordance with the provisions of § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(3)(iv)(B). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the new domestic use agreement filed by the T consolidated group is terminated and has no further effect. Finally, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(iii), T is treated as if it incurred the dual consolidated loss that is recaptured for purposes of applying
§ 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i). Thus, T has a reconstituted net operating loss equal to the amount of the year 1 dual consolidated loss that was recaptured, and such loss is attributable to the Country X separate unit (and subject to the rules and limitations under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i)). Because T is treated as if it incurred the year 1 dual consolidated loss, P shall not be treated as having a net operating loss under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i).
(37)
Example 37. No foreign use following multiple-party event exception to triggering event
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. T, a domestic corporation unrelated to P, owns 95 percent of PRS, a partnership. FS
X
owns the remaining 5 percent of PRS. At the beginning of year 3, PRS purchases 100 percent of the interest in DE1
X
from P for cash. For Country X tax purposes, the $100x loss incurred by DE1
X
in year 1 carries forward and is available to offset income of DE1
X
in subsequent years.
(ii)
Result.
P's sale of its interest in DE1
X
is a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v). However, if P and T comply with the requirements under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii), the sale would qualify for the multiple-party event exception under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(i). In addition, because the $100x loss of DE1
X
carries forward to subsequent years for Country X purposes and is available to offset income of DE1
X
, there would be a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss immediately after the sale pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1). This is the case because the dual consolidated loss would be available to offset or reduce income that is considered, under U.S. tax principles, to be an item of FS
X
, a foreign corporation (it would also be a foreign use because FS
X
is an indirect owner of an interest in a hybrid entity that is not a separate unit). However, there is no foreign use in this case as a result of FS
X
's 5 percent interest in DE1
X
pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(8).
(38)
Example 38. Character and source of recapture income
—(i)
Facts.
(A) P owns FB
X
. In year 1, the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to FB
X
for purposes of determining whether it has a dual consolidated loss are as follows:
Table 2 to paragraph
(c)(38)(i)(A)
Sales income
$100x
Salary expense
($75x)
Interest expense
($50x)
Dual consolidated loss
($25x)
(B) P makes a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to FB
X
and, thus, the $25x dual consolidated loss is used to offset the P group's consolidated taxable income.
(C) Pursuant to § 1.861-8, the $75x of salary expense incurred by FB
X
is allocated and apportioned entirely to foreign source general limitation income. Pursuant to § 1.861-9T, $25x of the $50x interest expense attributable to FB
X
is allocated and apportioned to domestic source income, $15x of such interest expense is allocated and apportioned to foreign source general limitation income, and the remaining $10x of such interest expense is allocated and apportioned to foreign source passive income.
(D) During year 2, $5x of income is attributable to FB
X
under the rules of § 1.1503(d)-5, and the P consolidated group has $100x of consolidated taxable income. At the end of year 2, FB
X
undergoes a triggering event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1), and P continues to own FB
X
following the triggering event. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2)(i), P is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the $25x dual consolidated loss attributable to FB
X
in year 1 would have offset the $5x of income attributable to FB
X
in year 2, if no domestic use election were made with respect to the year 1 loss such that it was subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c).
(ii)
Result.
P must recapture and report as ordinary income $20x ($25x − $5x) of FB
X
's year 1 dual consolidated loss, plus applicable interest. The $20x recapture income is attributable to
FB
X
pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(vi). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(5), the recapture income is treated as ordinary income whose source and character (including section 904 separate limitation character) is determined by reference to the manner in which the recaptured items of expense or loss taken into account in calculating the dual consolidated loss were allocated and apportioned. Further, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(5), the pro rata computation described in § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(4) shall apply. Thus, the character and source of the recapture income is determined in the same proportion as each item of deduction or loss that contributed to the dual consolidated loss being recaptured. Accordingly, P's $20x of recapture income is characterized and sourced as follows: $4x of domestic source income (($25x/$125x) × $20x); $14.4x of foreign source general limitation income (($75x + $15x)/$125x) × $20x); and $1.6x of foreign source passive income (($10x/$125x) × $20x). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i), commencing in year 3, the $20x recapture amount is reconstituted and treated as a net operating loss incurred by FB
X
in a separate return limitation year, subject to the limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (and therefore subject to the restrictions of § 1.1503(d)-4(c)). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of FB
X
is terminated and has no further effect.
(39)
Example 39. Interest charge without recapture
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. P's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, a dual consolidated loss of $100x is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss and uses the loss to offset the P group's consolidated taxable income. In year 2, there is $100x of income attributable to P's Country X separate unit and the P consolidated group has $200x of consolidated taxable income. At the end of year 2, the Country X separate unit undergoes a triggering event within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1). P demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, that if no domestic use election were made with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss such that it was subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c), the year 1 $100x dual consolidated loss would have been offset by the $100x of year 2 income.
(ii)
Result.
There is no recapture of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit because it is reduced to zero under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2)(i). However, P is liable for one year of interest charge under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(1)(ii), even though P's recapture amount is zero. This is the case because the P consolidated group had the benefit of the dual consolidated loss in year 1, and the income that offset the recapture income was not recognized until year 2. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss is terminated and has no further effect.
(40)
Example 40. Reduced recapture and interest charge, and reconstituted dual consolidated loss
—(i)
Facts.
S owns DE1
X
which, in turn, owns FB
X
. S's interest in DE1
X
and its indirect interest in FB
X
are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to S's Country X separate unit, and P earns $100x. P makes a domestic use election with respect to the Country X separate unit's year 1 dual consolidated loss. Therefore, the consolidated group is permitted to offset P's $100x of income with the Country X separate unit's $100x dual consolidated loss. In year 2, $30x of income is attributable to the Country X separate unit under the rules of § 1.1503(d)-5 and such income is offset by a $30x net operating loss incurred by P in such year. In year 3, $25x of income is attributable to the Country X separate unit under the rules of § 1.1503(d)-5, and P earns $15x of income. In addition, at the end of year 3 there is a foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss that constitutes a triggering event. S continues to own the Country X separate unit after the triggering event.
(ii)
Result.
(A) Under the presumptive rule of § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(1)(i), S must recapture $100x (plus applicable interest). However, under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2)(i), S may be able to demonstrate that a lesser amount is subject to recapture. The lesser amount is the amount of the $100x dual consolidated loss that would have remained subject to § 1.1503(d)-4(c) at the time of the foreign use triggering event if a domestic use election had not been made for such loss.
(B) Although the combined separate unit earned $30x of income in year 2, there was no consolidated taxable income in such year. As a result, as of the end of year 2 the $100x dual consolidated loss would continue to be subject to § 1.1503(d)-4(c) if a domestic use election had not been made for such loss. However, the $30x earned in year 2 can be carried forward to subsequent taxable years and may reduce the recapture income to the extent of consolidated taxable income generated in subsequent years. In year 3, $25x of income was attributable to the Country X separate unit and P earns $15x of income. Thus, the P consolidated group has $40x of consolidated taxable income in year 3. As a result, the $100x of recapture income can be reduced by $40x. This is the case because if a domestic use election had not been made for the $100x year 1 dual consolidated loss such that it was subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c), only $60x of the loss would have remained subject to such limitations at the time of the foreign use triggering event. Accordingly, if S can adequately document the lesser amount, the amount of recapture income is $60x ($100x − $40x). The $60x recapture income is attributable to the Country X separate unit pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(vi).
(C) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i), commencing in year 4, the $60x recapture amount is reconstituted and treated as a net operating loss incurred by the Country X separate unit of S in a separate return limitation year, subject to the limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (and therefore subject to the restrictions of § 1.1503(d)-4(c)). The loss is only available for carryover to taxable years after year 3 (and is not available for carryback). The carryover period of the loss, for purposes of section 172(b), will start from year 1, when the dual consolidated loss that was subject to recapture was incurred. In addition, such reconstituted net operating loss is not eligible for the exceptions contained in § 1.1503(d)-6(b) through (d). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit is terminated and has no further effect.
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(40)(i) of this section, except that the triggering event that occurs at the end of year 3 is a sale by S of its entire interest in DE1
X
to B, an unrelated domestic corporation. The sale does not qualify as a transaction described in section 381. The results are the same as in paragraph (c)(40)(ii) of this section, except that pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(ii) the $60x net operating loss is not reconstituted (with respect to either S or B). The loss is not reconstituted with respect to S because the Country X separate unit ceases to be a separate unit of S (or any other member of the consolidated group that includes S) and therefore would have been eliminated pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(ii) if no domestic use election had been made with respect to such loss. The loss is not reconstituted with respect to B because B was not the domestic owner of the combined separate unit when the dual consolidated loss that is recaptured was incurred, and B did not acquire the Country X separate unit in a section 381 transaction.
(41)
Example 41. Domestic consenting corporation—treated as dual resident corporation
—(i)
Facts.
FSZ1, a Country Z entity that is subject to Country Z tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis and is classified as a foreign corporation for U.S. tax purposes, owns all the interests in DCC, a domestic eligible entity that has filed an election to be classified as an association. Under Country Z tax law, DCC is fiscally transparent. For taxable year 1, DCC's only item of income, gain, deduction, or loss is a $100x deduction and such deduction comprises a $100x net operating loss of DCC. For Country Z tax purposes, FSZ1's only item of income, gain, deduction, or loss, other
than the $100x loss attributable to DCC, is $60x of operating income.
(ii)
Result.
DCC is a domestic consenting corporation because by electing to be classified as an association, it consents to be treated as a dual resident corporation for purposes of section 1503(d).
See
§ 301.7701-3(c)(3) of this chapter. For taxable year 1, DCC is treated as a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(iii) because FSZ1 (a specified foreign tax resident that bears a relationship to DCC that is described in section 267(b) or 707(b)) derives or incurs items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of DCC.
See
§ 1.1503(d)-1(c). FSZ1 derives or incurs items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of DCC because, under Country Z tax law, DCC is fiscally transparent. Thus, DCC has a $100x dual consolidated loss for taxable year 1.
See
§ 1.1503(d)-1(b)(5). Because the loss is available to, and in fact does, offset income of FSZ1 under Country Z tax law, there is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss in year 1. Accordingly, the dual consolidated loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). The result would be the same if FSZ1 were to indirectly own its DCC stock through an intermediate entity that is fiscally transparent under Country Z tax law, or if an individual were to wholly own FSZ1 and FSZ1 were a disregarded entity. In addition, the result would be the same if FSZ1 had no items of income, gain, deduction, or loss, other than the $100x loss attributable to DCC.
(iii)
Alternative facts—DCC not treated as a dual resident corporation.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(41)(i) of this section, except that DCC is not fiscally transparent under Country Z tax law and thus under Country Z tax law FSZ1 does not derive or incur items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of DCC. Accordingly, DCC is not treated as a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(iii) for year 1 and, consequently, its $100x net operating loss in that year is not a dual consolidated loss.
(iv)
Alternative facts—mirror legislation.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(41)(i) of this section, except that, under provisions of Country Z tax law that constitute mirror legislation under § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(1) and that are substantially similar to the recommendations in Chapter 6 of OECD/G-20,
Neutralising the Effects of Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements, Action 2: 2015 Final Report
(October 2015), Country Z tax law prohibits the $100x loss attributable to DCC from offsetting FSZ1's income that is not also subject to U.S. tax. As is the case in paragraph (c)(41)(ii) of this section, DCC is treated as a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(iii) for year 1 and its $100x net operating loss is a dual consolidated loss. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(3), however, the dual consolidated loss is not deemed to be put to a foreign use by virtue of the Country Z mirror legislation. Therefore, DCC is eligible to make a domestic use election for the dual consolidated loss.
(42)
Example 42. Disregarded payment loss rules—triggering event resulting in DPL inclusion amount and suspended deduction
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1X, and DE1X owns FSX. In year 1, DE1X pays $100x to P pursuant to a note. For U.S. tax purposes, the payment is disregarded as a transaction between DE1X and P, but if the payment were regarded it would be interest within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12). Under Country X tax law, the $100x is interest for which DE1X is allowed a deduction in year 1. In year 1, pursuant to a Country X group relief regime, DE1X's $100x deduction is made available to offset income of FSX. At the end of year 1, DE1X extinguishes the note by repaying the outstanding principal. In year 2, P enters into a licensing arrangement with DE1X pursuant to which P makes a $60x payment to DE1X in each of years 2 and 3. For U.S. tax purposes, the payment is disregarded as a transaction between DE1X and P, but if the payment were regarded it would be a royalty within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(16). Under Country X tax law, the $60x is a royalty and included in the income of DE1X in years 2 and 3.
(ii)
Result.
—(A)
Year 1.
Because P owns all of the interests in DE1X, a disregarded entity, P is a DPE owner. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1). In addition, DE1X, a disregarded payment entity with respect to P, incurs a $100x disregarded
payment loss with respect to its Country X taxable year for year 1. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(i)(A) and (d)(5)(ii)(B). DE1X's $100x deduction being made available to offset income of FSX pursuant to the Country X group relief regime constitutes a foreign use of, and thus a triggering event with respect to, the disregarded payment loss during the DPL certification period. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(3)(i) and (d)(5)(iii). As a result, in year 1, P must include in gross income $100x, the DPL inclusion amount with respect to the disregarded payment loss. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1) and (d)(2)(i). The $100x DPL inclusion amount is treated for U.S. tax purposes as ordinary interest income, the source and character of which is determined as if DE1X were a foreign corporation, and the amount were interest income paid by the foreign corporation to P. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(iv)(A). The result would be the same if DE1X recognized income in year 1 that was regarded for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes, or if P made payments (other than interest, structured payments, or royalties) to DE1X that were disregarded for U.S. tax purposes but regarded for Country X tax purposes. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(3)(i) (describing the application of the principles of the deemed ordering rule in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(3)).
(B)
Years 2 and 3.
In year 2, P establishes a suspended deduction of $100x related to the year 1 DPL inclusion amount. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1) and (d)(2)(ii). In each of years 2 and 3, DE1X derives $60x of disregarded payment income with respect to its Country X taxable year. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(A). For year 2, P is allowed a $60x deduction with respect to the suspended deduction, and $40x remains suspended. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(ii). For year 3, P is allowed a $40x deduction with respect to the suspended deduction. See
id.
Thus, in years 2 and 3 P is allowed a $60x deduction and $40x deduction, respectively, with respect to the suspended deduction relating to the year 1 DPL inclusion amount. The deductions are treated as interest deductions the source and character of which are determined in the same manner as the income for the DPL inclusion amount to which they relate. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(iv)(B). At the end of year 3, the DPL cumulative register is $20x (that is, the $120x of disregarded payment income for years 2 and 3, less the $100 of DPL cumulative register that is used under § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(ii) in years 2 and 3). See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(iii).
(43)
Example 43. Income from U.S. business operations to avoid the purposes of the dual consolidated loss rules
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1X. DE1X owns FSX. DE1X and FSX file a consolidated tax return for Country X tax purposes such that deductions and losses of DE1X are available to offset income of FSX. P conducts business operations in the United States that are expected to generate items of income or gain (U.S. business operations). With a view to avoid the purposes of the rules under §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8 by eliminating what would otherwise be a dual consolidated loss and obtaining a double deduction outcome, P transfers the U.S. business operations to DE1X. But for P's items of income or gain from the U.S. business operations (held indirectly through DE1X), there would be a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1X and a foreign use of that dual consolidated loss (as a result of the Country X consolidation regime). For purposes of determining taxable income under the income tax laws of Country X, items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to a permanent establishment (or similar taxable presence) in another country, which would include the U.S. business operations, are not taken into account.
(ii)
Result.
Because P transferred the U.S. business operations to DE1X with a view to avoid the purposes of the rules under §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8, and the transfer would otherwise result in a double deduction outcome (that is, in effect putting DE1X's items of deduction or loss that would compose a dual consolidated loss to both a domestic use and a foreign use), the anti-avoidance rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(f)(1) applies. As a result, the income or gain that P takes into account from the U.S. business operations (held indirectly through DE1X) is not taken into account for purposes of determining the amount of income or dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest
in DE1X under § 1.1503(d)-5(c). The result would be the same if, instead of the income tax laws of Country X not taking into account the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to a permanent establishment (or similar taxable presence) in another country for purposes of determining taxable income, the income tax laws of Country X took such items into account for this purpose but provided a foreign tax credit with respect to taxes paid on the taxable income determined by taking such items into account.
(44)
Example 44. Disallowed interest deductions
—(i)
Facts.
P owns S. S owns DE1X, a disregarded entity and, thus, is a DPE owner. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1). DE1X owns FSX. DE1X and FSX file a consolidated tax return for Country X tax purposes such that deductions and losses of DE1X are available to offset income of FSX. With a view to avoid the purposes of the rules under §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8, and obtain a double deduction or similar outcome, P transfers cash to DE1X in exchange for an interest-bearing note. Under the terms of the note, payments of interest are made in cash or, at the option of DE1X, in stock of S. In year 1, DE1X accrues $100x of interest expense under the note. The taxpayer takes the position that for U.S. tax purposes, the interest expense deductions are disallowed under section 163(l) because DE1X has the option to pay the interest with S stock. Further, because S's interest expense deductions on the note held by P are disallowed, the taxpayer takes the position that P's interest income on the loan is treated as tax-exempt income under the intercompany transaction rules in § 1.1502-13. In year 1, DE1X is allowed a $100x interest expense deduction for Country X tax purposes; the $100x deduction is available to offset FSX's income for Country X tax purposes.
(ii)
Result.
DE1X issued the note to P in exchange for cash with a view to avoid the purposes of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8. Moreover, under the taxpayer's position, the issuance would otherwise result in a double deduction or similar outcome (that is, a foreign use of DE1X's $100x interest expense deduction where P does not recognize a corresponding income inclusion for U.S. tax purposes). Accordingly, the anti-avoidance rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(f)(1) applies. As a result, adjustments are made such that the $100x interest expense deduction is treated as a disregarded payment loss of DE1X, a disregarded payment entity. This is the case even though the $100x interest payment is not disregarded for U.S. tax purposes as a transaction between a disregarded entity and its tax owner or between disregarded entities with the same tax owner under § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(C)(
2
). Because the $100x disregarded payment loss is made available under the Country X consolidation regime to offset income of FSX, a foreign corporation, a foreign use triggering event (within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(3)(i)) occurs. As a result, S includes in income a $100x DPL inclusion amount in year 1 and establishes a suspended deduction of $100x in year 2. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1), (d)(2)(i), and (d)(2)(ii).
(45)
Example 45. Restructuring to avoid the application of the DPL rules
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1X and S. DE1X owns FSX. DE1X and FSX file a consolidated tax return for Country X tax purposes such that deductions and losses of DE1X are available to offset income of FSX. P holds an interest-bearing note issued by DE1X. For U.S. tax purposes, interest accrued and paid on the note is disregarded. For Country X tax purposes, DE1X is allowed a $100x interest expense deduction each year for interest accrued under the note. At the end of year 1, and with a view to avoid the application of the disregarded payment loss rules under § 1.1503(d)-1(d) in year 2, P transfers the note to S. In year 2, DE1X is allowed a $100x interest expense deduction for Country X tax purposes. For U.S. tax purposes, the $100x interest expense deduction in year 2 gives rise to a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1X, a hybrid entity separate unit, and that loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).
(ii)
Result.
Although P transferred the note to S with a view to avoid the application of the disregarded payment loss rules under § 1.1503(d)-1(d), the anti-avoidance rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(f)(1) does not apply with respect to the transfer. This is because the resulting
year 2 $100x dual consolidated loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (or the terms of a domestic use agreement, if a domestic use election were to be made) and thus cannot be put to both a domestic use and a foreign use (that is, it does not result in a double deduction or similar outcome). The same result would obtain if, instead of P transferring the note to S at the end of year 1, DE1X extinguished the note at the end of year 1 such that there are no disregarded payments in year 2 and, thus, no double non-taxation outcome.
(iii)
Alternative facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(45)(i) of this section, except that P does not transfer the note to S in year 1. Instead, with a view to prevent a foreign use of a disregarded payment loss attributable to DE1X, at the end of year 1 FSX distributes all its property to DE1X in a complete liquidation described in section 332. The anti-avoidance rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(f)(1) does not apply because the disregarded payment loss is not put to a foreign use (that is, there is no double deduction or similar outcome).
(46)
Example 46. Disregarded payment loss rules—scope
—(i)
Facts.
P owns DE1X. DE1X owns FBZ. FBZ is a foreign branch, within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(iv), located in Country Z. DE1X makes a $10x payment to P, which, under the laws of Country Z, gives rise to a $10x deduction allowable to FBZ. If such payment were regarded for U.S. tax purposes, it would be interest within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12). In addition, under the laws of Country Z, FBZ is allowed a $60x interest deduction for an accrual or other transaction between FBZ and DE1X, and if such item were regarded for U.S. tax purposes, it would be interest within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12).
(ii)
Result.
P is a DPE owner because it owns DE1X, a disregarded entity. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1). As such, P determines disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of DE1X, a disregarded payment entity described in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(i)(A), and of FBZ, a disregarded payment entity described in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(i)(B). See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1). The payment from DE1X to P is disregarded for U.S. tax purposes as a transaction between a disregarded entity (DE1X) and its tax owner (P) and therefore satisfies the condition in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(C)(
2
). The payment also satisfies the conditions described in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(C)(
1
) and (
3
) because FBZ is allowed a deduction under Country Z law for a payment that, if regarded for U.S. tax purposes, would be interest within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12). As such, the $10x deduction attributable to the payment from DE1X to P is taken into account in determining whether FBZ has disregarded payment income or a disregarded payment loss under § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(A) and (B), respectively. The $60x item of deduction allowed to FBZ, however, does not satisfy the condition described in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(C)(
2
), because the accrual or other transaction giving rise to the deduction is not between a disregarded entity and its tax owner (here, P), or between disregarded entities with the same tax owner. Accordingly, the $60x item of deduction is not taken into account in determining whether FBZ has disregarded payment income or a disregarded payment loss. The result would be the same with respect to the $60x deduction allowed to FBZ under the laws of Country Z if, instead of P owning FBZ indirectly through DE1X, P owned FBZ directly and the accrual or other transaction giving rise to the deduction is between FBZ and P.
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007; 72 FR 20424, Apr. 25, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19855, Apr. 8, 2020; 85 FR 48651, Aug. 12, 2020; T.D. 10026, 90 FR 3018, Jan. 14, 2025]
§ 1.1503(d)-8
Applicability dates.
(a)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this paragraph (a) provides the dates of applicability of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-7. Sections 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-7 apply to dual consolidated losses incurred in taxable years beginning on or after April 18, 2007. However, a taxpayer may apply §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-7, in their entirety, to dual consolidated losses incurred in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2007, by filing its return and attaching
to such return the domestic use agreements, certifications, or other information in accordance with these regulations. For purposes of this section, the term application date means either April 18, 2007, or, if the taxpayer applies these regulations pursuant to the preceding sentence, January 1, 2007. Section 1.1503-2, as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2024, applies for dual consolidated losses incurred in taxable years beginning on or after October 1, 1992, and before the application date.
(b)
Special rules
—
(1)-(2) [Reserved]
(3)
Relief for untimely filings.
Paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section set forth the effective dates for rules that provide relief for the failure to make timely filings of an election, agreement, statement, rebuttal, computation, closing agreement, or other information, pursuant to section 1503(d) and these regulations.
(i)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the reasonable cause relief standard of § 1.1503(d)-1(d) applies for all untimely filings with respect to dual consolidated losses, including with respect to dual consolidated losses incurred in taxable years beginning before the application date.
(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]
(4) [Reserved]
(5)
Basis adjustment rules.
Taxpayers may apply the basis adjustment rules of § 1.1503(d)-5(g) for all open years in which such basis is relevant, even if the basis adjustment is attributable to a dual consolidated loss incurred (or recaptured) in a closed taxable year. Taxpayers applying the provisions of § 1.1503(d)-5(g), however, must do so consistently for all open years.
(6)
Rules regarding domestic consenting corporations.
Section 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(iii) and (c), as well § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(1) and (3), apply to determinations under §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-7 relating to taxable years ending on or after December 20, 2018. For taxable years ending before December 20, 2018, see § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(1) as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2018.
(7)
Compulsory transfer triggering event exception.
Section 1.1503(d)-6(f)(5)(i) through (iii) applies to transfers that occur on or after December 20, 2018. For transfers occurring before December 20, 2018, see § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(5)(i) through (iii) as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2018. However, taxpayers may consistently apply § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(5)(i) through (iii) to transfers occurring before December 20, 2018.
(8)
Rule providing that SRLY limitation applies without regard to § 1.1502-21(c)(1)(i)(E).
Section 1.1503(d)-4(c)(3)(v) applies to any period to which § 1.1502-21(c)(1)(i)(E) applies.
(9)-(10) [Reserved]
(11)
Disregarded payment loss rules.
Section 1.1503(d)-1(d) applies to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2026. See also § 301.7701-2(e)(10) of this chapter (applicability dates for the entity classification provisions relevant to the disregarded payment loss rules).
(12)-(14) [Reserved]
(15)
Anti-avoidance rule.
Section 1.1503(d)-1(f) applies to dual consolidated losses incurred in taxable years ending on or after August 6, 2024, and to disregarded payment losses in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2026.
(16) [Reserved].
(17)
Deemed ordering rule.
Section 1.1503(d)-3(c)(3) applies to dual consolidated losses incurred in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2026, and to disregarded payment losses in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2026. For the application of the deemed ordering rule to dual consolidated losses incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2026, but on or after April 18, 2007, see § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(3) as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2024.
[T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007; 72 FR 20424, Apr. 25, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19856, Apr. 8, 2020; T.D. 9927, 85 FR 67988, Oct. 27, 2020; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106878, Dec. 30, 2024; T.D. 10026, 90 FR 3020, Jan. 14, 2025]
§ 1.1504-0
Outline of provisions.
In order to facilitate the use of §§ 1.1504-1 through 1.1504-4, this section lists the captions contained in §§ 1.1504-1 through 1.1504-4.

# § 1.1504-1 Definitions.

# §§ 1.1504-2—1.1504-3 [Reserved]

# § 1.1504-4 Treatment of warrants, options, convertible obligations, and other similar interests.
(a) Introduction.
(1) General rule.
(2) Exceptions.
(b) Options not treated as stock or as exercised.
(1) General rule.
(2) Options treated as exercised.
(i) In general.
(ii) Aggregation of options.
(iii) Effect of treating option as exercised.
(A) In general.
(B) Cash settlement options, phantom stock, stock appreciation rights, or similar interests.
(iv) Valuation.
(3) Example.
(c) Definitions.
(1) Issuing corporation.
(2) Related or sequential option.
(3) Related persons.
(4) Measurement date.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Issuances, transfers, or adjustments not treated as measurement dates.
(iii) Transactions increasing likelihood of exercise.
(iv) Measurement date for options issued pursuant to a plan.
(v) Measurement date for related or sequential options.
(vi) Example.
(5) In-the-money.
(d) Options.
(1) Instruments treated as options.
(2) Instruments generally not treated as options.
(i) Options on section 1504(a)(4) stock.
(ii) Certain publicly traded options.
(A) General rule.
(B) Exception.
(iii) Stock purchase agreements.
(iv) Escrow, pledge, or other security agreements.
(v) Compensatory options.
(A) General rule.
(B) Exceptions.
(vi) Options granted in connection with a loan.
(vii) Options created pursuant to a title 11 or similar case.
(viii) Convertible preferred stock.
(ix) Other enumerated instruments.
(e) Elimination of federal income tax liability.
(f) Substantial amount of federal income tax liability.
(g) Reasonable certainty of exercise.
(1) Generally.
(i) Purchase price.
(ii) In-the-money option.
(iii) Not in-the-money option.
(iv) Exercise price.
(v) Time of exercise.
(vi) Related or sequential options.
(vii) Stockholder rights.
(viii) Restrictive covenants.
(ix) Intention to alter value.
(x) Contingencies.
(2) Cash settlement options, phantom stock, stock appreciation rights, or similar interests.
(3) Safe harbors.
(i) Options to acquire stock.
(ii) Options to sell stock.
(iii) Options exercisable at fair market value.
(iv) Exceptions.
(v) Failure to satisfy safe harbor.
(h) Examples.
(i) Effective date.
[T.D. 8462, 57 FR 61800, Dec. 29, 1992]
§ 1.1504-1
Definitions.
The privilege of filing consolidated returns is extended to all includible corporations constituting affiliated groups as defined in section 1504. See the regulations under § 1.1502 for a description of an affiliated group and the corporations which may be considered as includible corporations.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12106, Nov. 26, 1960]
§ 1.1504-2
[Reserved]
§ 1.1504-3
Treatment of stock in a QOF C corporation for purposes of consolidation.
(a)
Scope and definitions
—(1)
Scope.
This section provides rules regarding the treatment of stock in a QOF C corporation for purposes of determining whether such corporation can join in the filing of a consolidated return. Paragraph (b) of this section generally prevents a subsidiary QOF C corporation from joining in the filing of a consolidated return, but it provides an election to consolidate a subsidiary QOF C corporation (subject to certain conditions). Paragraph (c) of this section provides instructions for making the election provided by paragraph (b) of this section. Paragraph (d) of this section provides an example. Paragraph (e) of this section provides the applicability dates.
(2)
Definitions.
The definitions provided in §§ 1.1400Z2(a)-1(b) and 1.1502-14Z(a)(2)(ii) apply for purposes of this section.
(b)
QOF stock not stock for purposes of consolidation
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, stock in a QOF C corporation (whether qualifying QOF stock or otherwise) is not treated as stock under section 1504 for purposes of determining whether any corporation may join in the filing of a consolidated return under section 1501. Therefore, a QOF C corporation can be the common parent of a consolidated group, and a QOF C corporation generally can be a member of an affiliated group for purposes of section 1504, but a QOF C corporation cannot join in the filing of a consolidated return as a subsidiary member (except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
(2)
Election to consolidate a subsidiary QOF C corporation
—(i)
In general.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a consolidated group may elect to consolidate a subsidiary QOF C corporation that was formed, or section 1504 control of which was acquired, by the consolidated group after May 1, 2019, and that otherwise meets the affiliation requirements under section 1504. If a pre-existing corporation was a member of the consolidated group prior to becoming a QOF C corporation, a consolidated group may elect to continue to consolidate such pre-existing corporation if it self-certified to be a QOF after May 1, 2019. The consolidated group must make the election under this paragraph (b)(2) with regard to the first taxable year during which the subsidiary QOF C corporation otherwise meets the section 1504 affiliation requirements (without regard to paragraph (b)(1) of this section). See § 1.1502-14Z(f)(3) for an election available with regard to a subsidiary QOF C corporation that met the section 1504 affiliation requirements as of May 1, 2019. The election under this paragraph (b)(2) is effective on the later of May 1, 2019, or the first date on which the QOF C corporation otherwise meets the requirements of section 1504. If a consolidated group makes the election under this paragraph (b)(2), then the conditions in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply to the consolidated group and to the QOF member. See paragraph (c) of this section for the form and manner of making this election.
(ii)
Conditions to consolidate a subsidiary QOF C corporation
—(A)
Ownership status of QOF investor member.
On and at all times after the date of the investment, the common parent must directly or indirectly own all shares of all classes of stock (including non-qualified preferred stock) issued by any QOF investor member.
(B)
Direct investment.
Except as provided in § 1.1502-14Z(c), each QOF investor member must maintain direct ownership of its qualifying investment (see, for example, § 1.1400Z2(b)-1(c), which generally treats transfers of a qualifying investment as an inclusion event). See § 1.1502-14Z(c)(4) for rules regarding the treatment of intercompany transfers as qualifying investments in a QOF member. See also § 1.1502-14Z(c)(2) and (c)(3)(ii) for rules regarding actual and deemed intercompany transfers of qualifying investments.
(3)
Failure of continued qualification.
Consolidation of a subsidiary QOF C corporation is contingent upon continued satisfaction of all of the conditions of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section continue to apply (with appropriate modifications to reflect single-entity treatment) following any intercompany transfer of the QOF member stock that is subject to § 1.1502-14Z(c)(3)(ii). For example, following an intercompany transfer of the QOF member stock that is subject to § 1.1502-14Z(c)(3)(ii), the buying member must maintain a direct investment in the QOF member. On the failure to satisfy any condition of paragraph (b)(2), the QOF member will deconsolidate, and § 1.1502-14Z(g) will apply with respect to such deconsolidation.
(c)
Election under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to consolidate a subsidiary QOF C corporation
—(1)
In general.
The election under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is irrevocable and is made in the form provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Form of election.
The election under paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be made in the form of a statement titled “THIS IS AN ELECTION UNDER § 1.1504-3(b)(2) TO CONSOLIDATE [insert name and employer identification number (E.I.N.) of subsidiary
QOF C corporation] as of [insert date].” The statement must be included with the consolidated group's timely filed return (original, superseding, or amended return, as applicable, including extensions) for the year the election under § 1.1504-3(b)(2) is made.
(d)
Example.
The following example illustrates the treatment of QOF stock as not stock for purposes of affiliation as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(1)
QOF stock as not stock for purposes of affiliation to join in the filing of a consolidated return
—(i)
Facts.
P wholly owns S, which wholly owns corporation Q1. P, S, and Q1 are members of the P group. In 2021, S sells an asset to an unrelated party and realizes $500x of eligible gain. S contributes $500x to Q1 and properly elects to defer the eligible gain under section 1400Z-2(a) and § 1.1400Z2(a)-1. At such time, Q1 qualifies and elects to be treated as a QOF, but the P group does not elect to consolidate Q1 under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Analysis.
Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, stock of a QOF C corporation (qualifying or otherwise) is not treated as stock for purposes of determining whether the QOF C corporation may join in the filing of a consolidated return. Thus, because no election has been made under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, once Q1 becomes a QOF, Q1 ceases to be affiliated with the P group members for purposes of section 1501, and it deconsolidates from the P group.
See
the consolidated return regulations generally for the consequences of deconsolidation.
(2) [Reserved]
(e)
Applicability dates
—(1)
In general.
This section applies for taxable years beginning after March 13, 2020.
(2)
Prior periods.
With respect to the portion of a consolidated group's first taxable year ending after December 21, 2017, and for taxable years beginning after December 21, 2017, and on or before March 13, 2020, a consolidated group may choose either—
(i) To apply the section 1400Z-2 regulations, if applied in a consistent manner for all such taxable years; or
(ii) To rely on the rules in proposed § 1.1400Z2(g)-1 contained in the notice of proposed rulemaking (REG-120186-18) published on May 1, 2019, but only if applied in a consistent manner for all such taxable years.
[T.D. 9889, 85 FR 2000, Jan. 13, 2020; 85 FR 19086, Apr. 6, 2020; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106878, Dec. 30, 2024]
§ 1.1504-4
Treatment of warrants, options, convertible obligations, and other similar interests.
(a)
Introduction
—(1)
General rule.
This section provides regulations under section 1504(a)(5) (A) and (B) regarding the circumstances in which warrants, options, obligations convertible into stock, and other similar interests are treated as exercised for purposes of determining whether a corporation is a member of an affiliated group. The fact that an instrument may be treated as an option under these regulations does not prevent such instrument from being treated as stock under general principles of law. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, this section applies to all provisions under the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations to which affiliation within the meaning of section 1504(a) (with or without the exceptions in section 1504(b)) is relevant, including those provisions that refer to section 1504(a)(2) (with or without the exceptions in section 1504(b)) without referring to affiliation, provided that the 80 percent voting power and 80 percent value requirements of section 1504(a)(2) are not modified therein.
(2)
Exceptions.
This section does not apply to sections 864(e) or 904(i) or to the regulations thereunder. This section also does not apply to any other provision specified by the Internal Revenue Service in regulations, a revenue ruling, or revenue procedure. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.
(b)
Options not treated as stock or as exercised
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an option is not considered either as stock or as exercised. Thus, options are disregarded in determining whether a corporation is a member of an affiliated group unless they are described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2)
Options treated as exercised
—(i)
In general.
Solely for purposes of determining whether a corporation is a
member of an affiliated group, an option is treated as exercised if, on a measurement date with respect to such option—
(A) It could reasonably be anticipated that, if not for this section, the issuance or transfer of the option in lieu of the issuance, redemption, or transfer of the underlying stock would result in the elimination of a substantial amount of federal income tax liability (as described in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section); and
(B) It is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised (as described in paragraph (g) of this section).
(ii)
Aggregation of options.
All options with the same measurement date are aggregated in determining whether the issuance or transfer of an option in lieu of the issuance, redemption, or transfer of the underlying stock would result in the elimination of a substantial amount of federal income tax liability.
(iii)
Effect of treating option as exercised
—(A)
In general.
An option that is treated as exercised is treated as exercised for purposes of determining the percentage of the value of stock owned by the holder and other parties, but is not treated as exercised for purposes of determining the percentage of the voting power of stock owned by the holder and other parties.
(B)
Cash settlement options, phantom stock, stock appreciation rights, or similar interests.
If a cash settlement option, phantom stock, stock appreciation right, or similar interest is treated as exercised, the option is treated as having been converted into stock of the issuing corporation. If the amount to be received upon the exercise of such an option is determined by reference to a multiple of the increase in the value of a share of the issuing corporation's stock on the exercise date over the value of a share of the stock on the date the option is issued, the option is treated as converted into a corresponding number of shares of such stock. Appropriate adjustments must be made in any situation in which the amount to be received upon exercise of the option is determined in another manner.
(iv)
Valuation.
For purposes of section 1504(a)(2)(B) and this section, all shares of stock within a single class are considered to have the same value. Thus, control premiums and minority and blockage discounts within a single class are not taken into account.
(3)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
(i) Corporation P owns all 100 shares of the common stock of Corporation S, the only class of S stock outstanding. Each share of S stock has a fair market value of $10 and has one vote. On June 30, 1992, P issues to Corporation X an option to acquire 80 shares of the S stock from P.
(ii) If, under the provisions of this section, the option is treated as exercised, then, solely for purposes of determining affiliation, P is treated as owning only 20 percent of the value of the outstanding S stock and X is treated as owing the remaining 80 percent of the value of the S stock. P is still treated as owning all of the voting power of S. Accordingly, because P is treated as owning less than 80 percent of the value of the outstanding S stock, P and S are no longer affiliated. However, because X is not treated as owning any of the voting power of S, X and S are also not affiliated.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Issuing corporation.
“Issuing corporation” means the corporation whose stock is subject to an option.
(2)
Related or sequential option.
“Related or sequential option” means an option that is one of a series of options issued to the same or related persons. For purposes of this section, any options issued to the same person or related persons within a two-year period are presumed to be part of a series of options. This presumption may be rebutted if the facts and circumstances clearly establish that the options are not part of a series of options. Any options issued to the same person or related persons more than two years apart are presumed not to be part of a series of options. This presumption may be rebutted if the facts and circumstances clearly establish that the options are part of a series of options.
(3)
Related persons.
Persons are related if they are related within the meaning of section 267(b) (without the application of sections 267(c) and 1563(e)(1)) or 707(b)(1), substituting “10 percent” for “50 percent” wherever it appears.
(4)
Measurement date
—(i)
General rule.
“Measurement date” means a date on
which an option is issued or transferred or on which the terms of an existing option or the underlying stock are adjusted (including an adjustment pursuant to the terms of the option or the underlying stock).
(ii)
Issuances, transfers, or adjustments not treated as measurement dates.
A measurement date does not include a date on which—
(A) An option is issued or transferred by gift, at death, or between spouses or former spouses under section 1041;
(B) An option is issued or transferred—
(
1
) Between members of an affiliated group (determined with the exceptions in section 1504(b) and without the application of this section); or
(
2
) Between persons none of which is a member of the affiliated group (determined without the exceptions in section 1504(b) and without the application of this section), if any, of which the issuing corporation is a member, unless—
(
i
) Any such person is related to (or acting in concert with) the issuing corporation or any member of its affiliated group; and
(
ii
) The issuance or transfer is pursuant to a plan a principal purpose of which is to avoid the application of section 1504 and this section;
(C) An adjustment occurs in the terms or pursuant to the terms of an option or the underlying stock that does not materially increase the likelihood that the option will be exercised; or
(D) A change occurs in the exercise price of an option or in the number of shares that may be issued or transferred pursuant to the option as determined by a bona fide, reasonable, adjustment formula that has the effect of preventing dilution of the interests of the holders of the options.
(iii)
Transactions increasing likelihood of exercise.
If a change or alteration referred to in this paragraph (c)(4)(iii) is made for a principal purpose of increasing the likelihood that an option will be exercised, a measurement date also includes any date on which—
(A) The capital structure of the issuing corporation is changed; or
(B) The fair market value of the stock of the issuing corporation is altered through a transfer of assets to or from the issuing corporation (other than regular, ordinary dividends) or by any other means.
(iv)
Measurement date for options issued pursuant to a plan.
In the case of options issued pursuant to a plan, a measurement date for any of the options constitutes a measurement date for all options issued pursuant to the plan that are outstanding on the measurement date.
(v)
Measurement date for related or sequential options.
In the case of related or sequential options, a measurement date for any of the options constitutes a measurement date for all related or sequential options that are outstanding on the measurement date.
(vi)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(4)(v) of this section may be illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
(i) Corporation P owns all 80 shares of the common stock of Corporation S, the only class of S stock outstanding. On January 1, 1992, S issues a warrant, exercisable within 3 years, to U, an unrelated corporation, to acquire 10 newly issued shares of S common stock. On July 1, 1992, S issues a second warrant to U to acquire 10 additional newly issued shares of S common stock. On January 1, 1993, S issues a third warrant to T, a wholly owned subsidiary of U, to acquire 10 newly issued shares of S common stock. Assume that the facts and circumstances do not clearly establish that the options are not part of a series of options.
(ii) January 1, 1992, July 1, 1992, and January 1, 1993, constitute measurement dates for the first warrant, the second warrant, and the third warrant, respectively, because the warrants were issued on those dates.
(iii) Because the first and second warrants were issued within two years of each other, and both warrants were issued to U, the warrants constitute related or sequential options. Accordingly, July 1, 1992, constitutes a measurement date for the first warrant as well as for the second warrant.
(iv) Because the first, second, and third warrants were all issued within two years of each other, and were all issued to the same or related persons, the warrants constitute related or sequential options. Accordingly, January 1, 1993, constitutes a measurement date for the first and second warrants, as well as for the third warrant.
(5)
In-the-money.
“In-the-money” means the exercise price of the option is less than (or in the case of an option
to sell stock, greater than) the fair market value of the underlying stock.
(d)
Options
—(1)
Instruments treated as options.
For purposes of this section, except to the extent otherwise provided in this paragraph (d), the following are treated as options:
(i) A call option, warrant, convertible obligation, put option, redemption agreement (including a right to cause the redemption of stock), or any other instrument that provides for the right to issue, redeem, or transfer stock (including an option on an option); and
(ii) A cash settlement option, phantom stock, stock appreciation right, or any other similar interest (except for stock).
(2)
Instruments generally not treated as options.
For purposes of this section, the following will not be treated as options:
(i)
Options on section 1504(a)(4) stock.
Options on stock described in section 1504(a)(4);
(ii)
Certain publicly traded options
—(A)
General rule.
Options which on the measurement date are traded on (or subject to the rules of) a qualified board or exchange as defined in section 1256(g)(7), or on any other exchange, board of trade, or market specified by the Internal Revenue Service in regulations, a revenue ruling, or revenue procedure. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter;
(B)
Exception.
Paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) of this section does not apply to options issued, transferred, or listed with a principal purpose of avoiding the application of section 1504 and this section. For example, a principal purpose of avoiding the application of section 1504 and this section may exist if warrants, convertible or exchangeable debt instruments, or other similar instruments have an exercise price (or, in the case of convertible or exchangeable instruments, a conversion or exchange premium) that is materially less than, or a term that is materially longer than, those that are customary for publicly traded instruments of their type. A principal purpose may also exist if a large percentage of an issuance of an instrument is placed with one investor (or group of investors) and a very small percentage of the issuance is traded on a qualified board or exchange;
(iii)
Stock purchase agreements.
Stock purchase agreements or similar arrangements whose terms are commercially reasonable and in which the parties' obligations to complete the transaction are subject only to reasonable closing conditions;
(iv)
Escrow, pledge, or other security agreements.
Agreements for holding stock in escrow or under a pledge or other security agreement that are part of a typical commercial transaction and that are subject to customary commercial conditions;
(v)
Compensatory options
—(A)
General rule.
Stock appreciation rights, warrants, stock options, phantom stock, or other similar instruments provided to employees, directors, or independent contractors in connection with the performance of services for the corporation or a related corporation (and that is not excessive by reference to the services performed) and which—
(
1
) Are nontransferable within the meaning of § 1.83-3(d); and
(
2
) Do not have a readily ascertainable fair market value as defined in § 1.83-7(b) on the measurement date;
(B)
Exceptions.
(
1
) Paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section does not apply to options issued or transferred with a principal purpose of avoiding the application of section 1504 and this section; and
(
2
) Paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section ceases to apply to options that become transferable;
(vi)
Options granted in connection with a loan.
Options granted in connection with a loan if the lender is actively and regularly engaged in the business of lending and the options are issued in connection with a loan to the issuing corporation that is commercially reasonable. This paragraph (d)(2)(vi) continues to apply if the option is transferred with the loan (or if a portion of the option is transferred with a corresponding portion of the loan). However, if the option is transferred without a corresponding portion of the loan, this paragraph (d)(2)(vi) ceases to apply;
(vii)
Options created pursuant to a title 11 or similar case.
Options created by the solicitation or receipt of acceptances to a plan of reorganization in a title 11 or similar case (within the
meaning of section 368(a)(3)(A)), the option created by the confirmation of the plan, and any option created under the plan prior to the time the plan becomes effective;
(viii)
Convertible preferred stock.
Convertible preferred stock, provided the terms of the conversion feature do not permit or require the tender of any consideration other than the stock being converted; and
(ix)
Other enumerated instruments.
Any other instruments specified by the Internal Revenue Service in regulations, a revenue ruling, or revenue procedure. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.
(e)
Elimination of federal income tax liability.
For purposes of this section, the elimination of federal income tax liability includes the elimination or deferral of federal income tax liability. In determining whether there is an elimination of federal income tax liability, the tax consequences to all involved parties are considered. Examples of elimination of federal income tax liability include the use of a loss or deduction that would not otherwise be utilized, the acceleration of a loss or deduction to a year earlier than the year in which the loss or deduction would otherwise be utilized, the deferral of gain or income to a year later than the year in which the gain or income would otherwise be reported, and the acceleration of gain or income to a year earlier than the year in which the gain or income would otherwise be reported, if such gain or income is offset by a net operating loss or net capital loss that would otherwise expire unused. The elimination of federal income tax liability does not include the deferral of gain with respect to the stock subject to the option that would be recognized if such stock were sold on a measurement date.
(f)
Substantial amount of federal income tax liability.
The determination of what constitutes a substantial amount of federal income tax liability is based on all the facts and circumstances, including the absolute amount of the elimination, the amount of the elimination relative to overall tax liability, and the timing of items of income and deductions, taking into account present value concepts.
(g)
Reasonable certainty of exercise
—(1)
Generally.
The determination of whether, as of a measurement date, an option is reasonably certain to be exercised is based on all the facts and circumstances, including:
(i)
Purchase price.
The purchase price of the option in absolute terms and in relation to the fair market value of the stock or the exercise price of the option;
(ii)
In-the-money option.
Whether and to what extent the option is in-the-money on the measurement date;
(iii)
Not in-the-money option.
If the option is not in-the-money on the measurement date, the amount or percentage by which the exercise price of the option is greater than (or in the case of an option to sell stock, is less than) the fair market value of the underlying stock;
(iv)
Exercise price.
Whether the exercise price of the option is fixed or fluctuates depending on the earnings, value, or other indication of economic performance of the issuing corporation;
(v)
Time of exercise.
The time at which, or the period of time during which, the option can be exercised;
(vi)
Related or sequential options.
Whether the option is one in a series of related or sequential options;
(vii)
Stockholder rights.
The existence of an arrangement (either within the option agreement or in a related agreement) that, directly or indirectly, affords managerial or economic rights in the issuing corporation that ordinarily would be afforded to owners of the issuing corporation's stock (e.g., voting rights, dividend rights, or rights to proceeds on liquidation) to the person who would acquire the stock upon exercise of the option or a person related to such person. For this purpose, managerial or economic rights in the issuing corporation possessed because of actual stock ownership in the issuing corporation are not taken into account;
(viii)
Restrictive covenants.
The existence of restrictive covenants or similar arrangements (either within the option agreement or in a related agreement) that, directly or indirectly, prevent or limit the ability of the issuing corporation to undertake certain activities while the option is outstanding (e.g.,
covenants limiting the payment of dividends or borrowing of funds);
(ix)
Intention to alter value.
Whether it was intended that through a change in the capital structure of the issuing corporation or a transfer of assets to or from the issuing corporation (other than regular, ordinary dividends) or by any other means, the fair market value of the stock of the issuing corporation would be altered for a principal purpose of increasing the likelihood that the option would be exercised; and
(x)
Contingencies.
Any contingency (other than the mere passage of time) to which the exercise of the option is subject (e.g., a public offering of the issuing corporation's stock or reaching a certain level of earnings).
(2)
Cash settlement options, phantom stock, stock appreciation rights, or similar interests.
A cash settlement option, phantom stock, stock appreciation right, or similar interest is treated as reasonably certain to be exercised if it is reasonably certain that the option will have value at some time during the period in which the option may be exercised.
(3)
Safe harbors
—(i)
Options to acquire stock.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3)(iv) of this section, an option to acquire stock is not considered reasonably certain, as of a measurement date, to be exercised if—
(A) The option may be exercised no more than 24 months after the measurement date and the exercise price is equal to or greater than 90 percent of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the measurement date; or
(B) The terms of the option provide that the exercise price of the option is equal to or greater than the fair market value of the underlying stock on the exercise date.
(ii)
Options to sell stock.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3)(iv) of this section, an option to sell stock is not considered reasonably certain, as of a measurement date, to be exercised if—
(A) The option may be exercised no more than 24 months after the measurement date and the exercise price is equal to or less than 110 percent of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the measurement date; or
(B) The terms of the option provide that the exercise price of the option is equal to or less than the fair market value of the underlying stock on the exercise date.
(iii)
Options exercisable at fair market value.
For purposes of paragraphs (g)(3)(i)(B) and (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, an option whose exercise price is determined by a formula is considered to have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the exercise date if the formula is agreed upon by the parties when the option is issued in a bona fide attempt to arrive at fair market value on the exercise date and is to be applied based upon the facts in existence on the exercise date.
(iv)
Exceptions.
The safe harbors of this paragraph (g)(3) do not apply if—
(A) An arrangement exists that provides the holder or a related party with stockholder rights described in paragraph (g)(1)(vii) of this section (except for rights arising upon a default under the option or a related agreement);
(B) It is intended that through a change in the capital structure of the issuing corporation or a transfer of assets to or from the issuing corporation (other than regular, ordinary dividends) or by any other means, the fair market value of the stock of the issuing corporation will be altered for a principal purpose of increasing the likelihood that the option will be exercised; or
(C) The option is one in a series of related or sequential options, unless all such options satisfy paragraph (g)(3) (i) or (ii) of this section.
(v)
Failure to satisfy safe harbor.
Failure of an option to satisfy one of the safe harbors of this paragraph (g)(3) does not affect the determination of whether an option is treated as reasonably certain to be exercised.
(h)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. These examples assume that the measurement dates set forth in the examples are the only measurement dates that have taken place or will take place.

# Example 1.
(i) P is the common parent of a consolidated group, consisting of P, S, and T. P owns all 100 shares of S's only class of stock, which is voting common stock. P also owns all the stock of T. On June 30, 1992, when the fair market value of the S stock is
$40 per share, P sells to U, an unrelated corporation, an option to acquire 40 shares of the S stock that P owns at an exercise price of $30 per share, exercisable at any time within 3 years after the granting of the option. P and T have had substantial losses for 5 consecutive years while S has had substantial income during the same period. Because P, S, and T have been filing consolidated returns, P and T have been able to use all of their losses to offset S's income. It is anticipated that P, S, and T will continue their earnings histories for several more years. On July 31, 1992, S declares and pays a dividend of $1 per share to P.
(ii) If P, S, and T continue to file consolidated returns after June 30, 1992, it could reasonably be anticipated that P, S, and T would eliminate a substantial amount of federal income tax liability by using P's and T's future losses to offset S's income in consolidated returns. Furthermore, based on the difference between the exercise price of the option and the fair market value of the S stock, it is reasonably certain, on June 30, 1992, a measurement date, that the option will be exercised. Therefore, the option held by U is treated as exercised. As a result, for purposes of determining whether P and S are affiliated, P is treated as owning only 60 percent of the value of outstanding shares of S stock and U is treated as owning the remaining 40 percent. P is still treated as owning 100 percent of the voting power. Because members of the P group are no longer treated as owning stock possessing 80 percent of the total value of the S stock as of June 30, 1992, S is no longer a member of the P group. Additionally, P is not entitled to a 100 percent dividends received deduction under section 243(a)(3) because P and S are also treated as not affiliated for purposes of section 243. P is only entitled to an 80 percent dividends received deduction under section 243(c).

# Example 2.
(i) The facts are the same as in
Example 1
except that rather than P issuing an option to acquire 40 shares of S stock to U on June 30, 1992, P, pursuant to a plan, issues an option to U1 on July 1, 1992, to acquire 20 shares of S stock, and issues an option to U2 on July 2, 1992, to acquire 20 shares of S stock.
(ii) Because the options issued to U1 and U2 were issued pursuant to a plan, July 2, 1992, constitutes a measurement data for both options. Therefore, both options are aggregated in determining whether the issuance of the options, rather than the sale of the S stock, would result in the elimination of a substantial amount of federal income tax liability. Accordingly, as in
Example 1,
because the continued affiliation of P, S, and T could reasonably be anticipated to result in the elimination of a substantial amount of federal income tax liability and the options are reasonably certain to be exercised, the options are treated as exercised for purposes of determining whether P and S are affiliated, and P and S are no longer affiliated as of July 2, 1992.

# Example 3.
(i) The facts are the same as in
Example 1
except that the option gives U the right to acquire all 100 shares of the S stock, and U is the common parent of a consolidated group. The U group has had substantial losses for 5 consecutive years and it is anticipated that the U group will continue its earnings history for several more years.
(ii) If P sold the S stock, in lieu of the option, to U, S would become a member of the U group. Because the U group files consolidated returns, if P sold the S stock to U, U would be able to use its future losses to offset future income of S. When viewing the transaction from the effect on all parties, the sale of the option, in lieu of the underlying S stock, does not result in the elimination of federal income tax liability because S's income would be offset by the losses of members of either the P or U group. Accordingly, the option is disregarded and S remains a member of the P group.

# Example 4.
(i) P is the common parent of a consolidated group, consisting of P and S. P owns 90 of the 100 outstanding shares of S's only class of stock, which is voting common stock, and U, an unrelated corporation, owns the remaining 10 shares. On August 31, 1992, when the fair market value of the S stock is $100 per share, P sells a call option to U that entitles U to purchase 20 shares of S stock from P, at any time before August 31, 1993, at an exercise price of $115 per share. The call option does not provide U with any voting rights, dividend rights, or any other managerial or economic rights ordinarily afforded to owners of the S stock. There is no intention on August 31, 1992, to alter the value of S to increase the likelihood of the exercise of the call option.
(ii) Because the exercise price of the call option is equal to or greater than 90 percent of the fair market value of the S stock on August 31, 1992, a measurement date, the option may be exercised no more than 24 months after the measurement date, and none of the items described in paragraph (g)(3)(iv) of this section that preclude application of the safe harbor are present, the safe harbor of paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section applies and the call option is treated as if it is not reasonably certain to be exercised. Therefore, regardless of whether the continued affiliation of P and S would result in the elimination of a substantial amount of federal income tax liability, the call option is disregarded in determining whether S remains a member of the P group.

# Example 5.
(i) The facts are the same as in
Example 4
except that the call option gives U the right to vote similar to that of a shareholder.
(ii) Under paragraph (g)(3)(iv) of this section, the safe harbor of paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section does not apply because the call option entitles U to voting rights equivalent to that of a shareholder. Accordingly, all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the sale of the call option must be taken into consideration in determining whether it is reasonably certain that the call option will be exercised.

# Example 6.
(i) In 1992, two unrelated corporations, X and Y, decide to engage jointly in a new business venture. To accomplish this purpose, X organizes a new corporation, S, on September 30, 1992. X acquires 100 shares of the voting common stock of S, which are the only shares of S stock outstanding. Y acquires a debenture of S which is convertible, on September 30, 1995, into 100 shares of S common stock. If the conversion right is not exercised, X will have the right, on September 30, 1995, to put 50 shares of its S stock to Y in exchange for 50 percent of the debenture held by Y. The likelihood of the success of the venture is uncertain. It is anticipated that S will generate substantial losses in its early years of operation. X expects to have substantial taxable income during the three years following the organization of S.
(ii) Under the terms of this arrangement, it is reasonably certain on September 30, 1992, a measurement date, that on September 30, 1995, either through Y's exercise of its conversion right or X's right to put S stock to Y, that Y will own 50 percent of the S stock. Additionally, it could reasonably be anticipated, on September 30, 1992, a measurement date, that the affiliation of X and S would result in the elimination of a substantial amount of federal income tax liability. Accordingly, for purposes of determining whether X and S are affiliated, X is treated as owning only 50 percent of the value of the S stock as of September 30, 1992, a measurement date, and S is not a member of the X affiliated group.

# Example 7.
(i) The facts are the same as in
Example 6
except that rather than acquiring 100 percent of the S stock and the right to put S stock to Y, X acquires only 80 percent of the S stock, while S, rather than acquiring a convertible debenture, acquires 20 percent of the S stock, and an option to acquire an additional 30 percent of the S stock. The terms of the option are such that the option will only be exercised if the new business venture succeeds.
(ii) In contrast to
Example 6,
because of the true business risks involved in the start-up of S and whether the business venture will ultimately succeed, along with the fact that X does not have an option to put S stock to Y, it is not reasonably certain on September 30, 1992, a measurement date, that the option will be exercised and that X will only own 50 percent of the S stock on September 30, 1995. Accordingly, the option is disregarded in determining whether S is a member of the X group.
(i)
Effective date.
This section applies, generally, to options with a measurement date on or after February 28, 1992. This section does not apply to options issued prior to February 28, 1992, which have a measurement date on or after February 28, 1992, if the measurement date for the option occurs solely because of an adjustment in the terms of the option pursuant to the terms of the option as it existed on February 28, 1992. Paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section applies to stock outstanding on or after February 28, 1992. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section applies with respect to taxable years beginning on or after November 13, 2020. However, taxpayers and their related parties, within the meaning of sections 267(b) and 707(b)(1), may choose to apply the rules of this section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, so long as the taxpayers and their related parties consistently apply the rules of this section, the section 163(j) regulations (as defined in § 1.163(j)-1(b)(37)), and, if applicable, §§ 1.263A-9, 1.263A-15, 1.381(c)(20)-1, 1.382-1, 1.382-2, 1.382-5, 1.382-6, 1.382-7, 1.383-0, 1.383-1, 1.469-9, 1.469-11, 1.704-1, 1.882-5, 1.1362-3, 1.1368-1, 1.1377-1, 1.1502-13, 1.1502-21, 1.1502-36, 1.1502-79, 1.1502-91 through 1.1502-99 (to the extent they effectuate the rules of §§ 1.382-2, 1.382-5, 1.382-6, 1.382-7, and 1.383-1), to that taxable year.
[T.D. 8462, 57 FR 61801, Dec. 29, 1992; 58 FR 7041, Feb. 3, 1993, as amended by T.D. 9905, 85 FR 56845, Sept. 14, 2020]

# Regulations Applicable for Tax Years for Which a Return Is Due on or Before August 11, 1999

# Regulations Applicable to Taxable Years Before January 1, 1997

# Regulations Applicable to Taxable Years Beginning Before June 28, 2002
§ 1.1502-77A
Common parent agent for subsidiaries applicable for consolidated return years beginning before June 28, 2002.
(a)
Scope of agency of common parent corporation.
The common parent, for all purposes (other than the making of the consent required by paragraph (a)(1) of
§ 1.1502-75, the making of an election under section 936(e), the making of an election to be treated as a DISC under § 1.992-2, and a change of the annual accounting period pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of § 1.991-1) shall be the sole agent for each subsidiary in the group, duly authorized to act in its own name in all matters relating to the tax liability for the consolidated return year. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, no subsidiary shall have authority to act for or to represent itself in any such matter. For example, any election available to a subsidiary corporation in the computation of its separate taxable income must be made by the common parent, as must any change in an election previously made by the subsidiary corporation; all correspondence will be carried on directly with the common parent; the common parent shall file for all extensions of time including extensions of time for payment of tax under section 6164; notices of deficiencies will be mailed only to the common parent, and the mailing to the common parent shall be considered as a mailing to each subsidiary in the group; notice and demand for payment of taxes will be given only to the common parent and such notice and demand will be considered as a notice and demand to each subsidiary; the common parent will file petitions and conduct proceedings before the Tax Court of the United States, and any such petition shall be considered as also having been filed by each such subsidiary. The common parent will file claims for refund or credit, and any refund will be made directly to and in the name of the common parent and will discharge any liability of the Government in respect thereof to any such subsidiary; and the common parent in its name will give waivers, give bonds, and execute closing agreements, offers in compromise, and all other documents, and any waiver or bond so given, or agreement, offer in compromise, or any other document so executed, shall be considered as having also been given or executed by each such subsidiary. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, any notice of deficiency, in respect of the tax for a consolidated return year, will name each corporation which was a member of the group during any part of such period (but a failure to include the name of any such member will not affect the validity of the notice of deficiency as to the other members); any notice and demand for payment will name each corporation which was a member of the group during any part of such period (but a failure to include the name of any such member will not affect the validity of the notice and demand as to the other members); and any levy, any notice of a lien, or any other proceeding to collect the amount of any assessment, after the assessment has been made, will name the corporation from which such collection is to be made. The provisions of this paragraph shall apply whether or not a consolidated return is made for any subsequent year, and whether or not one or more subsidiaries have become or have ceased to be members of the group at any time. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, the Commissioner may, upon notifying the common parent, deal directly with any member of the group in respect of its liability, in which event such member shall have full authority to act for itself.
(b)
Notification of deficiency to corporation which has ceased to be a member of the group.
If a subsidiary has ceased to be a member of the group and if such subsidiary files written notice of such cessation with the Commissioner, then the Commissioner upon request of such subsidiary will furnish it with a copy of any notice of deficiency in respect of the tax for a consolidated return year for which it was a member and a copy of any notice and demand for payment of such deficiency. The filing of such written notification and request by a corporation shall not have the effect of limiting the scope of the agency of the common parent provided for in paragraph (a) of this section and a failure by the Commissioner to comply with such written request shall not have the effect of limiting the tax liability of such corporation provided for in § 1.1502-6.
(c)
Effect of waiver given by common parent.
Unless the Commissioner agrees to the contrary, an agreement entered into by the common parent extending the time within which an assessment may be made or levy or proceeding in
court begun in respect of the tax for a consolidated return year shall be applicable:
(1) To each corporation which was a member of the group during any part of such taxable year, and
(2) To each corporation the income of which was included in the consolidated return for such taxable year, notwithstanding that the tax liability of any such corporation is subsequently computed on the basis of a separate return under the provisions of § 1.1502-75.
(d)
Effect of dissolution of common parent corporation.
If the common parent corporation contemplates dissolution, or is about to be dissolved, or if for any other reason its existence is about to terminate, it must forthwith notify the Commissioner of such fact and designate, subject to the approval of the Commissioner, another member to act as agent in its place to the same extent and subject to the same conditions and limitations as are applicable to the common parent. If the notice thus required is not given by the common parent, or the designation is not approved by the Commissioner, the remaining members may, subject to the approval of the Commissioner, designate another member to act as such agent, and notice of such designation must be given to the Commissioner. Until a notice in writing designating a new agent has been approved by the Commissioner, any notice of deficiency or other communication mailed to the common parent will be considered as having been properly mailed to the agent of the group; or, if the Commissioner has reason to believe that the existence of the common parent has terminated, the Commissioner may deal directly with any member in respect of its liability.
(e)
General rules
—(1)
Scope.
This section applies if the corporation that is the common parent of the group ceases to be the common parent, whether or not the group remains in existence under § 1.1502-75(d).
(2)
Notice of deficiency.
A notice of deficiency mailed to any one or more corporations referred to in paragraph (e)(4) of this section is deemed for purposes of § 1.1502-77A to be mailed to the agent of the group. If the group has designated an agent that has been approved by the Commissioner under § 1.1502-77A(d), a notice of deficiency shall be mailed to that designated agent in addition to any other corporation referred to in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. However, failure by the Commissioner to mail a notice of deficiency to that designated agent shall not invalidate the notice of deficiency mailed to any other corporation referred to in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(3)
Waiver of statute of limitations.
A waiver of the statute of limitations with respect to the group given by any one or more corporations referred to in paragraph (e)(4) of this section is deemed to be given by the agent of the group.
(4)
Alternative agents.
The corporations referred to in paragraph (e) (2) and (3) of this section are—
(i) The common parent of the group for all or any part of the year to which the notice or waiver applies,
(ii) A successor to the former common parent in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies,
(iii) The agent designated by the group under § 1.1502-77A(d), or
(iv) If the group remains in existence under § 1.1502-75(d) (2) or (3), the common parent of the group at the time the notice is mailed or the waiver given.
(f)
Cross-reference.
For further rules applicable to groups that include insolvent financial institutions, see § 301.6402-7 of this chapter.
(g)
Effective/applicability dates.
This section applies to taxable years beginning before June 28, 2002, except paragraph (e) of this section applies to statutory notices and waivers of the statute of limitations for taxable years for which the due date (without extensions) of the consolidated return is after September 7, 1988, and which begin before June 28, 2002.
[T.D. 6894, 31 FR 11794, Sept. 8, 1966, as amended by T.D. 7323, 39 FR 34409, Sept. 25, 1974; T.D. 7673, 45 FR 8588, Feb. 8, 1980; T.D. 8226, 53 FR 34733, Sept. 8, 1988; T.D. 8446, 57 FR 53034, Nov. 6, 1992. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 9002, 67 FR 43540, 43544, June 28, 2002; T.D. 9715, 80 FR 17318, Apr. 1, 2015; T. D. 10018, 89 FR 106876, Dec. 30, 2024]

# Regulations Applicable to Taxable Years Beginning on or After June 28, 2002, and Before April 1, 2015
§ 1.1502-77B
Agent for the group applicable for consolidated return years beginning on or after June 28, 2002, and before April 1, 2015.
(a)
Scope of agency
—(1)
In general
—(i)
Common parent.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (6) of this section, the common parent (or a substitute agent described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) for a consolidated return year is the sole agent (agent for the group) that is authorized to act in its own name with respect to all matters relating to the tax liability for that consolidated return year, for—
(A) Each member in the group; and
(B) Any successor (see paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section) of a member.
(ii)
Substitute agents.
For purposes of this section, any corporation designated as a substitute agent pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section to replace the common parent or a previously designated substitute agent acts as agent for the group to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as are applicable to the common parent, and any reference in this section to the common parent includes any such substitute agent.
(iii)
Successor.
For purposes of this section only, the term
successor
means an individual or entity (including a disregarded entity) that is primarily liable, pursuant to applicable law (including, for example, by operation of a state or Federal merger statute), for the tax liability of a member of the group. Such determination is made without regard to § 1.1502-1(f)(4) or 1.1502-6(a). (For inclusion of a successor in references to a subsidiary or member, see paragraph (c)(2) of this section.)
(iv)
Disregarded entity.
If a subsidiary of a group becomes, or its successor is or becomes, a disregarded entity for Federal tax purposes, the common parent continues to serve as the agent with respect to that subsidiary's tax liability under § 1.1502-6 for consolidated return years during which it was included in the group, even though the entity generally is not treated as a person separate from its owner for Federal tax purposes.
(v)
Transferee liability.
For purposes of assessing, paying and collecting transferee liability, any exercise of or reliance on the common parent's agency authority pursuant to this section is binding on a transferee (or subsequent transferees) of a member, regardless of whether the member's existence terminates prior to such exercise or reliance.
(vi)
Purported common parent.
If any corporation files a consolidated return purporting to be the common parent of a consolidated group but is subsequently determined not to have been the common parent of the claimed group, that corporation is treated, to the extent necessary to avoid prejudice to the Commissioner, as if it were the common parent.
(2)
Examples of matters subject to agency.
With respect to any consolidated return year for which it is the common parent—
(i) The common parent makes any election (or similar choice of a permissible option) that is available to a subsidiary in the computation of its separate taxable income, and any change in an election (or similar choice of a permissible option) previously made by or for a subsidiary, including, for example, a request to change a subsidiary's method or period of accounting;
(ii) All correspondence concerning the income tax liability for the consolidated return year is carried on directly with the common parent;
(iii) The common parent files for all extensions of time, including extensions of time for payment of tax under section 6164, and any extension so filed is considered as having been filed by each member;
(iv) The common parent gives waivers, gives bonds, and executes closing agreements, offers in compromise, and all other documents, and any waiver or bond so given, or agreement, offer in compromise, or any other document so executed, is considered as having also been given or executed by each member;
(v) The common parent files claims for refund, and any refund is made directly to and in the name of the common parent and discharges any liability of the Government to any member with respect to such refund;
(vi) The common parent takes any action on behalf of a member of the group with respect to a foreign corporation, for example, elections by, and changes to the method of accounting of, a controlled foreign corporation in accordance with § 1.964-1(c)(3);
(vii) Notices of claim disallowance are mailed only to the common parent, and the mailing to the common parent is considered as a mailing to each member;
(viii) Notices of deficiencies are mailed only to the common parent (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section), and the mailing to the common parent is considered as a mailing to each member;
(ix) Notices of final partnership administrative adjustment under section 6223 with respect to any partnership in which a member of the group is a partner may be mailed to the common parent, and, if so, the mailing to the common parent is considered as a mailing to each member that is a partner entitled to receive such notice (for other rules regarding partnership proceedings, see paragraphs (a)(3)(v) and (a)(6)(iii) of this section);
(x) The common parent files petitions and conducts proceedings before the United States Tax Court, and any such petition is considered as also having been filed by each member;
(xi) Any assessment of tax may be made in the name of the common parent, and an assessment naming the common parent is considered as an assessment with respect to each member; and
(xii) Notice and demand for payment of taxes is given only to the common parent, and such notice and demand is considered as a notice and demand to each member.
(3)
Matters reserved to subsidiaries.
Except as provided in this paragraph (a)(3) and paragraph (a)(6) of this section, no subsidiary has authority to act for or to represent itself in any matter related to the tax liability for the consolidated return year. The following matters, however, are reserved exclusively to each subsidiary—
(i) The making of the consent required by § 1.1502-75(a)(1);
(ii) Any action with respect to the subsidiary's liability for a federal tax other than the income tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code (including, for example, employment taxes under chapters 21 through 25 of the Internal Revenue Code, and miscellaneous excise taxes under chapters 31 through 47 of the Internal Revenue Code);
(iii) The making of an election under section 936(e);
(iv) The making of an election to be treated as a DISC under § 1.992-2; and
(v) Any actions by a subsidiary acting as tax matters partner under sections 6221 through 6234 and the accompanying regulations (but see paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section regarding the mailing of a final partnership administrative adjustment to the common parent).
(4)
Term of agency
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section, the common parent for the consolidated return year remains the agent for the group with respect to that year until the common parent's existence terminates, regardless of whether one or more subsidiaries in that year cease to be members of the group, whether the group files a consolidated return for any subsequent year, whether the common parent ceases to be the common parent or a member of the group in any subsequent year, or whether the group continues pursuant to § 1.1502-75(d) with a new common parent in any subsequent year.
(ii)
Replacement of substitute agent designated by Commissioner.
If the Commissioner replaces a previously designated substitute agent pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, the replaced substitute agent ceases to be the agent after the Commissioner designates another substitute agent.
(iii)
New common parent after a group structure change.
If the group continues in existence with a new common parent pursuant to § 1.1502-75(d) during a consolidated return year, the common parent at the beginning of the year is the agent for the group through the date of
the § 1.1502-75(d) transaction, and the new common parent becomes the agent for the group beginning the day after the transaction, at which time it becomes the agent for the group with respect to the entire consolidated return year (including the period through the date of the transaction) and the former common parent is no longer the agent for that year.
(5)
Identifying members in notice of a lien.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this paragraph (a), any notice of a lien, any levy or any other proceeding to collect the amount of any assessment, after the assessment has been made, must name the entity from which such collection is to be made.
(6)
Direct dealing with a member
—(i)
Several liability.
The Commissioner may, upon issuing to the common parent written notice that expressly invokes the authority of this provision, deal directly with any member of the group with respect to its liability under § 1.1502-6 for the consolidated tax of the group, in which event such member has sole authority to act for itself with respect to that liability. However, if the Commissioner believes or has reason to believe that the existence of the common parent has terminated, the Commissioner may deal directly with any member with respect to that member's liability under § 1.1502-6 without giving the notice required by this provision.
(ii)
Information requests.
The Commissioner may, upon informing the common parent, request information relevant to the consolidated tax liability from any member of the group. However, if the Commissioner believes or has reason to believe that the existence of the common parent has terminated, the Commissioner may request such information from any member of the group without informing the common parent.
(iii)
Members as partners in partnerships.
The Commissioner generally will deal directly with any member in its capacity as a partner of a partnership that is subject to the provisions of sections 6221 through 6234 and the accompanying regulations (but see paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section regarding the mailing of a final partnership administrative adjustment to the common parent). However, if requested to do so in accordance with the provisions of § 301.6223(c)-1(b) of this chapter, the Commissioner may deal with the common parent as agent for such member on any matter related to the partnership, except in regards to a settlement under section 6224(c) and except to the extent the member acts as tax matters partner of the partnership.
(b)
Copy of notice of deficiency to entity that has ceased to be a member of the group.
An entity that ceases to be a member of the group during or after a consolidated return year may file a written notice of that fact with the Commissioner and request a copy of any notice of deficiency with respect to the tax for a consolidated return year during which the entity was a member, or a copy of any notice and demand for payment of such deficiency, or both. Such filing does not limit the scope of the agency of the common parent provided for in paragraph (a) of this section. Any failure by the Commissioner to comply with such request does not limit an entity's tax liability under § 1.1502-6. For purposes of this paragraph (b), references to an entity include a successor of such entity.
(c)
References to member or subsidiary.
For purposes of this section, all references to a member or subsidiary for a consolidated return year include—
(1) Each corporation that was a member of the group during any part of such year (except that any reference to a subsidiary does not include the common parent);
(2) Except as indicated otherwise, a successor (as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section) of any corporation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(3) Each corporation whose income was included in the consolidated return for such year, notwithstanding that the tax liability of such corporation should have been computed on the basis of a separate return, or as a member of another consolidated group, under the provisions of § 1.1502-75.
(d)
Termination of common parent
—(1)
Designation of substitute agent by common parent.
(i) If the common parent's existence terminates, it may designate a substitute agent for the group and
notify the Commissioner, as provided in this paragraph (d)(1).
(A) Subject to the Commissioner's approval under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, before the common parent's existence terminates, the common parent may designate, for each consolidated return year for which it is the common parent and for which the period of limitations either for assessment, for collection after assessment, or for claiming a credit or refund has not expired, one of the following to act as substitute agent in its place—
(
1
) Any corporation that was a member of the group during any part of the consolidated return year and, except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, has not subsequently been disregarded as an entity separate from its owner or reclassified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes; or
(
2
) Any successor (as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section) of such a corporation or of the common parent that is a domestic corporation (and, except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, is not disregarded as an entity separate from its owner or classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes), including a corporation that will become a successor at the time that the common parent's existence terminates.
(B) The common parent must notify the Commissioner in writing (under procedures prescribed by the Commissioner) of the designation and provide the following—
(
1
) An agreement executed by the designated corporation agreeing to serve as the group's substitute agent; and
(
2
) If the designated corporation was not itself a member of the group during the consolidated return year (because the designated corporation is a successor of a member of the group for the consolidated return year), a statement by the designated corporation acknowledging that it is or will be primarily liable for the consolidated tax as a successor of a member.
(ii) A designation under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section does not apply unless and until it is approved by the Commissioner. The Commissioner's approval of such a designation is not effective before the existence of the common parent terminates.
(2)
Default substitute agent.
If the common parent fails to designate a substitute agent for the group before its existence terminates and if the common parent has a single successor that is a domestic corporation, such successor becomes the substitute agent for the group upon termination of the common parent's existence. However, see paragraph (d)(4) of this section regarding the consequences of the successor's failure to notify the Commissioner of its status as default substitute agent in accordance with procedures established by the Commissioner.
(3)
Designation by the Commissioner.
(i) In the event the common parent's existence terminates and no designation is made and approved under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the Commissioner believes or has reason to believe that there is no successor of the common parent that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section (or the Commissioner believes or has reason to believe there is such a successor but has no last known address on file for such successor), the Commissioner may, at any time, with or without a request from any member of the group, designate a corporation described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section to act as the substitute agent. The Commissioner will notify the designated substitute agent in writing of its designation, and the designation is effective upon receipt by the designated substitute agent of such notice. The designated substitute agent must give notice of the designation to each corporation that was a member of the group during any part of the consolidated return year, but a failure by the designated substitute agent to notify any such member of the group does not invalidate the designation.
(ii) At the request of any member, the Commissioner may, but is not required to, replace a substitute agent previously designated under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section with another corporation described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section.
(4)
Absence of designation or notification of default substitute agent.
Until a designation of a substitute agent for the group under paragraph (d)(1) of this
section has become effective, the Commissioner has received notification in accordance with procedures established by the Commissioner that a successor qualifying under paragraph (d)(2) of this section has become the substitute agent by default, or the Commissioner has designated a substitute agent under paragraph (d)(3) of this section—
(i) Any notice of deficiency or other communication mailed to the common parent, even if no longer in existence, is considered as having been properly mailed to the agent for the group; and
(ii) The Commissioner is not required to act on any communication (including, for example, a claim for refund) submitted on behalf of the group by any person other than the common parent (including a successor of the common parent qualifying as a default substitute agent under paragraph (d)(2) of this section).
(e)
Termination of a corporation's existence
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1)(v), (a)(4)(i), (d), and (j) of this section, the existence of a corporation is deemed to terminate if—
(i) Its existence terminates under applicable law; or
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, it becomes, for Federal tax purposes, either—
(A) An entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner; or
(B) An entity that is reclassified as a partnership.
(2)
Purported agency.
If the existence of the agent for the group terminates under circumstances described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, until the Commissioner has approved the designation of a substitute agent for the group pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section or the Commissioner designates a substitute agent and notifies the designated substitute agent pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, any post-termination action by that purported agent on behalf of the group has the same effect, to the extent necessary to avoid prejudice to the Commissioner, as if the agent's corporate existence had not terminated.
(3)
Exceptions where no eligible corporation exists.
(i) For purposes of the common parent's term as agent under paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section and the term as agent of the substitute agent designated under paragraph (d) of this section, if a corporation either becomes disregarded as an entity separate from its owner or is reclassified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes, its existence is not deemed to terminate if the effect of such termination would be that no corporation remains eligible to serve as the substitute agent for the group's consolidated return year.
(ii) Similarly, for purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, an entity that is either disregarded as an entity separate from its owner or reclassified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes is not precluded from designation as a substitute agent merely because of such classification if the effect of the inability to make such designation would be that no corporation remains eligible to serve as the substitute agent for the group's consolidated return year.
(iii) Any entity described in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section that remains or becomes the agent for the group is treated as a corporation for purposes of this section.
(4)
Exception for section 338 transactions.
Notwithstanding section 338(a)(2), a target corporation for which an election is made under section 338 is not deemed to terminate for purposes of this section.
(f)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the principles of this section. Unless otherwise indicated, each example addresses the question of which corporation is the proper party to execute a consent to waive the statute of limitations for Years 1 and 2 or the more general question of which corporation may be designated as a substitute agent for the group for Years 1 and 2. In each example, as of January 1 of Year 1, the P group consists of P and its two subsidiaries, S and S-1. P, as the common parent of the P group, files consolidated returns for the P group in Years 1 and 2. On January 1 of Year 1, domestic corporations S-2, U, V, W, W-1, X, Y, Z and Z-1 are not related to P or the members of the P group. All corporations are calendar year taxpayers. For none of the tax years at issue does the Commissioner exercise the authority under paragraph (a)(6) of this section to deal with any
member separately. Any surviving corporation in a merger is a successor as described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. Any notification to the Commissioner of the designation of the P group's substitute agent also contains a statement signed on behalf of the designated agent that it agrees to act as the group's substitute agent and, in the case of a successor, that it is primarily liable as a successor of a member. The examples are as follows:

# Example 1. Disposition of all group members.
On December 31 of Year 1, P sells all the stock of S-1 to X. On December 31 of Year 2, P distributes all the stock of S to P's shareholders. P files a separate return for Year 3. Although P is no longer a common parent after Year 2, P remains the agent for the P group for Years 1 and 2. For as long as P remains in existence, only P may execute a waiver of the period of limitations on assessment on behalf of the group for Years 1 and 2.

# Example 2. Acquisition of common parent by another group.
The facts are the same as in
Example 1,
except on January 1 of Year 3, all of the outstanding stock of P is acquired by Y. P thereafter joins in the Y group consolidated return as a member of Y group. Although P is a member of Y group in Year 3, P remains the agent for the P group for Years 1 and 2. For as long as P remains in existence, only P may execute a waiver of the period of limitations on assessment on behalf of the P group for Years 1 and 2.

# Example 3. Merger of common parent—designation of remaining member as substitute agent.
On December 31 of Year 1, P sells all the stock of S-1 to X. On July 1 of Year 2, P acquires all the stock of S-2. On November 30 of Year 2, P distributes all the stock of S to P's shareholders. On January 1 of Year 3, P merges into Y corporation. Just before the merger, P notifies the Commissioner in writing of the planned merger and of its designation of S as the substitute agent for the P group for Years 1 and 2. S is the only member that P can designate as the substitute agent for both Years 1 and 2 because it is the only subsidiary that was a member of the P group during part of both years. Although S-2 is the only remaining subsidiary of the P group when P merges into Y, S-2 was a member of the P group only in Year 2. For that reason, S-2 cannot be the substitute agent for the P group for Year 1. Alternatively, P could designate a different substitute agent for each year, selecting S or S-1 as the substitute agent for Year 1, and S or S-2 as the substitute agent for Year 2. P could also designate its successor Y as the substitute agent for both Years 1 and 2.

# Example 4. Forward triangular merger of common parent.
On January 1 of Year 3, P merges with and into Z-1, a subsidiary of Z, in a forward triangular merger described in section 368(a)(1)(A) and (a)(2)(D). The transaction constitutes a reverse acquisition under § 1.1502-75(d)(3)(i) because P's shareholders receive more than 50% of Z's stock in exchange for all of P's stock. Just before the merger, P notifies the Commissioner in writing of the planned merger and its designation of Z-1, the corporation that will survive the planned merger, as the substitute agent of the P group for Years 1 and 2. Because Z-1 will be P's successor (within the meaning of paragraph (a)(1) of this section) after the planned merger, P may designate Z-1 as the substitute agent for the P group for Years 1 and 2, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Alternatively, P could have designated S or S-1 as the substitute agent for the P group for Years 1 and 2. Although Z is the new common parent of the P group, which continues pursuant to § 1.1502-75(d)(3)(i), P may not designate Z as the substitute agent for Years 1 and 2 because Z was not a member of the group during any part of Years 1 or 2 and is not a successor of P or any other member of P group.

# Example 5. Reverse triangular merger of common parent.
On March 1 of Year 3, W-1, a subsidiary of W, merges into P, in a reverse triangular merger described in section 368(a)(1)(A) and (a)(2)(E). P survives the merger with W-1. The transaction constitutes a reverse acquisition under § 1.1502-75(d)(3)(i) because P's shareholders receive more than 50% of W's stock in exchange for all of P's stock. Under paragraph (a) of this section, P remains the agent for the P group for Years 1 and 2, even though the P group continues with W as its new common parent pursuant to § 1.1502-75(d)(3)(i). Because the transaction constitutes a reverse acquisition, the P group is treated as remaining in existence with W as its common parent. Before March 2 of Year 3, P is the agent for the P group for Year 3. Beginning on March 2 of Year 3, W becomes the agent for the P group with respect to all of Year 3 (including the period through March 1) and subsequent consolidated return years. For as long as P remains in existence, P remains the agent of the P group under paragraph (a) of this section for Years 1 and 2, and therefore only P may execute a waiver of the period of limitations on assessment on behalf of the P group for Years 1 and 2.

# Example 6. Reverse triangular merger of common parent-subsequent spinoff of common parent.
The facts are the same as in
Example 5,
except that on April 1 of Year 4, in a transaction unrelated to the Year 3 reverse acquisition, P distributes the stock of its subsidiaries S and S-1 to W, and W then distributes the stock of P to the W shareholders. Beginning on March 2 of Year 3, W becomes the agent for the P group with respect to Year 3 (including the period through March 1) and
subsequent consolidated return years. Although P is no longer a member of the P group after the Year 4 spinoff, P remains the agent for the P group under paragraph (a) of this section for Years 1 and 2. Thus, for as long as P remains in existence, only P may execute a waiver of the period of limitations on assessment on behalf of the P group for Years 1 and 2.

# Example 7. Qualified stock purchase and section 338 election.
On March 31 of Year 2, V purchases the stock of P in a qualified stock purchase (within the meaning of section 338(d)(3)), and V makes a timely election pursuant to section 338(g) with respect to P. Although section 338(a)(2) provides that P is treated as a new corporation as of the beginning of the day after the acquisition date for purposes of subtitle A, paragraph (e)(4) of this section provides that P's existence is not deemed to terminate for purposes of this section notwithstanding the general rule of section 338(a)(2). Therefore, the election under section 338(g) does not result in a termination of P under paragraph (e) of this section, and new P remains the agent of the P group for Year 1 and the period ending March 31 of Year 2 (short Year 2). For as long as new P remains in existence, only new P may execute a waiver of the period of limitations on assessment on behalf of the P group for Year 1 and short Year 2.

# Example 8. Fraudulent conveyance of assets.
On March 15 of Year 2, P files a consolidated return that includes the income of S and S-1 for Year 1. On December 1 of Year 2, S-1 transfers assets having a fair market value of $100x to U in exchange for $10x. This transfer of assets for less than fair market value constitutes a fraudulent conveyance under applicable state law. On March 1 of Year 5, P executes a waiver extending to December 31 of Year 6 the period of limitations on assessment with respect to the group's Year 1 consolidated return. On February 1 of Year 6, the Commissioner issues a notice of deficiency to P asserting a deficiency of $30x for the P group's Year 1 consolidated tax liability. P does not file a petition for redetermination in the Tax Court, and the Commissioner makes a timely assessment against the P group. P, S and S-1 are all insolvent and are unable to pay the deficiency. On February 1 of Year 8, the Commissioner sends a notice of transferee liability to U, which does not file a petition in the Tax Court. On August 1 of Year 8, the Commissioner assesses the amount of the P group's deficiency against U. Under section 6901(c), the Commissioner may assess U's transferee liability within one year after the expiration of the period of limitations against the transferor S-1. By operation of section 6213(a) and 6503(a), the issuance of the notice of deficiency to P and the expiration of the 90-day period for filing a petition in the Tax Court have the effect of further extending by 150 days the P group's limitations period on assessment from the previously extended date of December 31 of Year 6 to May 30 of Year 7. Pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section, the waiver executed by P on March 1 of Year 5 to extend the period of limitations on assessment to December 31 of Year 6 and the further extension of the P group's limitations period to May 30 of Year 7 (by operation of sections 6213(a) and 6503(a)) have the derivative effect of extending the period of limitations on assessment of U's transferee liability to May 30 of Year 8. By operation of section 6901(f), the issuance of the notice of transferee liability to U and the expiration of the 90-day period for filing a petition in the Tax Court have the effect of further extending the limitations period on assessment of U's liability as a transferee by 150 days, from May 30 of Year 8 to October 27 of Year 8. Accordingly, the Commissioner may send a notice of transferee liability to U at any time on or before May 30 of Year 8 and assess the unpaid liability against U at any time on or before October 27 of Year 8. The result would be the same even if S-1 ceased to exist before March 1 of Year 5, the date P executed the waiver.
(g)
Cross-reference.
For further rules applicable to groups that include insolvent financial institutions, see § 301.6402-7 of this chapter.
(h)
Effective/applicability date
—(1)
Application
—(i)
In general.
This section applies to consolidated return years beginning on or after June 28, 2002, and before April 1, 2015. For instructions regarding communications relating to the determination of a substitute agent and other matters under this section, see Rev. Proc. 2002-43, 2002-2 CB 99 (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter). For rules governing the resignation of certain agents for the group subject to this section, see § 1.1502-77(c)(7) and (j)(2).
(ii)
Election to apply for prior taxable years.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (h)(2) of this section, the common parent may elect to apply paragraph (d)(1) of this section in lieu of § 1.1502-77A(d) in designating a substitute agent for taxable years beginning before June 28, 2002. The common parent makes such an election by expressly referring to the election under this paragraph (h)(1)(ii) in notifying the Commissioner of the designation of the substitute agent. Once made, such election applies to any subsequent designation of a substitute agent for the
consolidated return year(s) subject to the election.
(2)
Prior law.
For taxable years beginning before June 28, 2002, see § 1.1502-77A.
(3)
Designation of a domestic substitute agent
—(i)
In general.
The provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) and (j) of this section apply to taxable years for which the consolidated Federal income tax return is due (without extensions) after July 23, 2007.
(ii)
Prior law.
For taxable years for which the consolidated Federal income tax return is due (without extensions) on or before July 23, 2007, see § 1.1502-77(e)(1) as contained in the 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2007. For taxable years for which the consolidated Federal income tax return is due (without extensions) after March 14, 2006, and on or before July 23, 2007, see § 1.1502-77T as contained in the 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2007.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Designation by Commissioner if common parent is treated as a domestic corporation under section 7874 or section 953(d)
—(1)
In general.
If the common parent is an entity created or organized under the law of a foreign country and is treated as a domestic corporation by reason of section 7874 (or regulations under that section) or a section 953(d) election (a foreign common parent), the Commissioner may at any time, with or without a request from any member of the group, designate another member of the group to act as the agent for the group (a domestic substitute agent) for any taxable year for which the consolidated Federal income tax return is due (without extensions) after July 23, 2007, and the foreign common parent would otherwise be the agent for the group. For each such year, the domestic substitute agent will be the sole agent for the group even though the foreign common parent remains in existence. The foreign common parent ceases to be the agent for the group when the Commissioner's designation of a domestic substitute agent becomes effective. The Commissioner may designate a domestic substitute agent for the term of a single taxable year, multiple years, or on a continuing basis.
(2)
Domestic substitute agent.
The domestic substitute agent, by designation or by succession, shall be a domestic corporation described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section (determined without regard to section 7874, a section 953(d) election or section 1504(d)).
(3)
Designation by the Commissioner.
The Commissioner will notify the domestic substitute agent in writing by mail or faxed transmission of the designation. The domestic substitute agent's designation is effective on the earliest of the 14th day following the date of a mailing, the 4th day following a faxed transmission, or the date the Commissioner receives written confirmation of the designation by a duly authorized officer of the domestic substitute agent (within the meaning of section 6062). The domestic substitute agent must give notice of its designation to the foreign common parent and each corporation that was a member of the group during any part of any consolidated return year for which the domestic substitute agent will be the agent. A failure of the domestic substitute agent to notify the foreign common parent or any member of the group does not invalidate the designation. The Commissioner will send a copy of the notification to the foreign common parent, and if applicable, to any domestic substitute agent the designation replaces; a failure to send a copy of the notification does not invalidate the designation.
(4)
Term of agency
—(i)
Taxable years for which domestic substitute agent is the agent.
If the Commissioner designates a domestic substitute agent for one or more taxable years, unless the designation is expressly limited to such term, such domestic substitute agent will continue as the group's sole agent for subsequent taxable years until the domestic substitute agent ceases to be a member of the continuing group, is replaced by a new domestic common parent (as provided in paragraph (j)(4)(iv)(A) of this section), is replaced by the Commissioner, or is replaced by a default substitute agent (as provided in paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section). If during the course of a consolidated return year the domestic substitute agent ceases to be a member of the continuing group or is replaced, it shall
no longer act as agent for such taxable year or subsequent taxable years in any matter.
(ii)
Continuing agency for prior taxable years.
Unless replaced by a default substitute agent (as provided in paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section) or by the Commissioner, the domestic substitute agent at the end of a taxable year of the group will remain the agent for such year until its existence terminates, even if the group subsequently ceases to exist or the domestic substitute agent subsequently ceases to be a member of the group.
(iii)
Replacement of a § 1.1502-77(d)(1) agent.
If, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the common parent of the group designates a foreign common parent as the agent for the group for any taxable year, the Commissioner may, at any time, designate a domestic substitute agent to replace the foreign common parent, even if the Commissioner approved the terminating common parent's designation.
(iv)
Group continues with a new common parent
—(A)
Year the new common parent becomes the common parent.
If the group has a domestic substitute agent and the group continues in existence with a new common parent during a consolidated return year, and such new common parent is a domestic corporation (determined without regard to section 7874 or a section 953(d) election), the domestic substitute agent at the beginning of the year is the agent for the group through the date of the transaction in which the new common parent becomes the common parent, and the new common parent becomes the agent for the group beginning the day after the transaction, at which time it becomes the agent for the group with respect to the entire consolidated return year (including the period through the date of the transaction) and the former domestic substitute agent will no longer be the agent for the group for that year.
(B)
Years preceding the year the new common parent becomes the common parent.
If after the Commissioner's designation of a domestic substitute agent the group remains in existence with a new common parent, and such new common parent is a domestic corporation (determined without regard to section 7874 or a section 953(d) election), the Commissioner may designate the new common parent as the sole agent for the group for any of the group's prior taxable years (for which the consolidated Federal income tax return is due (without extensions) after July 23, 2007) in which the new common parent was a member of the group. For this purpose, the new common parent is treated as having been a member of the group for any taxable year it is primarily liable for the group's income tax liability.
(v)
Replacement of domestic substitute agent by the Commissioner.
The Commissioner may at any time, with or without a request from any member of the group, designate a replacement for a domestic substitute agent (or a successor to such agent).
(5)
Deemed § 1.1502-77(d) designation
—(i)
In general.
If the Commissioner designates a domestic substitute agent under this paragraph (j), it will be treated as a designation of a substitute agent under paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii)
Default substitute agent.
If the domestic substitute agent's existence terminates and it has a single successor that is a domestic corporation (without regard to section 269B) that is eligible to be a domestic substitute agent, such successor becomes the domestic substitute agent and is treated as a default substitute agent under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. See paragraph (d)(4) of this section regarding the consequences of the successor's failure to notify the Commissioner of its status as a default substitute agent. The default substitute agent shall use procedures in section 9 of Rev. Proc. 2002-43 (2002-2 CB 99) or a corresponding provision of a successor revenue procedure for notification. (See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.)
(6)
Request that IRS designate a domestic substitute agent
—(i)
Original designation.
If the common parent of the group is a foreign common parent, and the IRS has not designated a domestic substitute agent, one or more members of the group may request the IRS to make a designation for taxable years for which the consolidated Federal income tax return is due (without extensions) after July 23, 2007. Such request
is deemed to be a request under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. Members of the group shall use the procedures in section 10 of Rev. Proc. 2002-43 (2002-2 CB 99) or a corresponding provision of a successor revenue procedure for this purpose. (See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.)
(ii)
Request that IRS replace a previously designated substitute agent.
If the IRS designates a domestic substitute agent pursuant to this paragraph (j), one or more members of the group may request that the IRS replace the designated domestic substitute agent with another member (or successor to another member). Such a request is deemed to be a request pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section. Members of the group shall use the procedures in section 11 of Rev. Proc. 2002-43 (2002-2 CB 99) or a corresponding provision of a successor revenue procedure for this purpose. (See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.)
[T.D. 9002, 67 FR 43540, June 28, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9255, 71 FR 13002, Mar. 14, 2006; T.D. 9343, 72 FR 40067, July 23, 2007. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 9715, 80 FR 17318, Apr. 1, 2015; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106876, Dec. 30, 2024]

# Regulations Applicable to Taxable Years Before January 1, 1997

# Regulations Applying Section 382 With Respect to Testing Dates (and Corporations Joining or Leaving Consolidated Groups) Before June 25, 1999

# Dual Consolidated Losses Incurred in Taxable Years Beginning Before October 1, 1992

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume of the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
Table of OMB Control Numbers
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
26 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
OMB Control Numbers

# Table of OMB Control Numbers
The OMB control numbers for chapter I of title 26 were consolidated into §§ 601.9000 and 602.101 at 50 FR 10221, Mar. 14, 1985. At 61 FR 58008, Nov. 12, 1996, § 601.9000 was removed. Section 602.101 is reprinted below for the convenience of the user.
Pt. 602

# PART 602—OMB CONTROL NUMBERS UNDER THE PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT

# Authority:
26 U.S.C. 7805.
§ 602.101
OMB Control numbers.
(a)
Purpose.
This part collects and displays the control numbers assigned to collections of information in Internal Revenue Service regulations by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. The Internal Revenue Service intends that this part comply with the requirements of §§ 1320.7(f), 1320.12, 1320.13, and 1320.14 of 5 CFR part 1320 (OMB regulations implementing the Paperwork Reduction Act), for the display of control numbers assigned by OMB to collections of information in Internal Revenue Service regulations. This part does not display control numbers assigned by the Office of Management and Budget to collections of information of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms.
(b)
Display.
CFR part or section where identified and described
Current OMB control No.
1.1(h)-1(e)
1545-1654
1.25-1T
1545-0922
1545-0930
1.25-2T
1545-0922
1545-0930
1.25-3T
1545-0922
1545-0930
1.25-4T
1545-0922
1.25-5T
1545-0922
1.25-6T
1545-0922
1.25-7T
1545-0922
1.25-8T
1545-0922
1.25A-1
1545-1630
1.28-1
1545-0619
1.31-2
1545-0074
1.32-2
1545-0074
1.32-3
1545-1575
1.36B-5
1545-2232
1.37-1
1545-0074
1.37-3
1545-0074
1.41-2
1545-0619
1.41-3
1545-0619
1.41-4A
1545-0074
1.41-4 (b) and (c)
1545-0074
1.41-8(b)
1545-1625
1.41-8(d)
1545-0732
1.41-9
1545-0619
1.42-1T
1545-0984
1545-0988
1.42-5
1545-1357
1.42-6
1545-1102
1.42-8
1545-1102
1.42-10
1545-1102
1.42-13
1545-1357
1.42-14
1545-1423
1.42-17
1545-1357
1.42-18
1545-2088
1.43-3(a)(3)
1545-1292
1.43-3(b)(3)
1545-1292
1.44B-1
1545-0219
1.45D-1
1545-1765
1.45G-1
1545-2031
1.46-1
1545-0123
1545-0155
1.46-3
1545-0155
1.46-4
1545-0155
1.46-5
1545-0155
1.46-6
1545-0155
1.46-8
1545-0155
1.46-9
1545-0155
1.46-10
1545-0118
1.47-1
1545-0155
1545-0166
1.47-3
1545-0155
1545-0166
1.47-4
1545-0123
1.47-5
1545-0092
1.47-6
1545-0099
1.48-3
1545-0155
1.48-4
1545-0155
1545-0808
1.48-5
1545-0155
1.48-6
1545-0155
1.48-12
1545-0155
1545-1783
1.50A-1
1545-0895
1.50A-2
1545-0895
1.50A-3
1545-0895
1.50A-4
1545-0895
1.50A-5
1545-0895
1.50A-6
1545-0895
1.50A-7
1545-0895
1.50B-1
1545-0895
1.50B-2
1545-0895
1.50B-3
1545-0895
1.50B-4
1545-0895
1.50B-5
1545-0895
1.51-1
1545-0219
1545-0241
1545-0244
1545-0797
1.52-2
1545-0219
1.52-3
1545-0219
1.56(g)-1
1545-1233
1.57-5
1545-0227
1.58-1
1545-0175
1.59-1
1545-1903
1.61-2
1545-0771
1.61-4
1545-0187
1.61-15
1545-0074
1.62-2
1545-1148
1.63-1
1545-0074
1.66-4
1545-1770
1.67-2T
1545-0110
1.67-3
1545-1018
1.67-3T
1545-0118
1.71-1T
1545-0074
1.72-4
1545-0074
1.72-6
1545-0074
1.72-9
1545-0074
1.72-17
1545-0074
1.72-17A
1545-0074
1.72-18
1545-0074
1.74-1
1545-1100
1.79-2
1545-0074
1.79-3
1545-0074
1.83-2
1545-0074
1.83-5
1545-0074
1.83-6
1545-1448
1.103-10
1545-0123
1545-0940
1.103A-2
1545-0720
1.105-4
1545-0074
1.105-5
1545-0074
1.105-6
1545-0074
1.108-4
1545-1539
1.108-5
1545-1421
1.108-7
1545-2155
1.108(i)-1
1545-2147
1.108(i)-2
1545-2147
1.110-1
1545-1661
1.117-5
1545-0869
1.118-2
1545-1639
1.119-1
1545-0067
1.120-3
1545-0057
1.121-1
1545-0072
1.121-2
1545-0072
1.121-3
1545-0072
1.121-4
1545-0072
1545-0091
1.121-5
1545-0072
1.127-2
1545-0768
1.132-2
1545-0771
1.132-5
1545-0771
1.132-9(b)
1545-1676
1.141-1
1545-1451
1.141-12
1545-1451
1.142-2
1545-1451
1.142(f)(4)-1
1545-1730
1.148-0
1545-1098
1.148-1
1545-1098
1.148-2
1545-1098
1545-1347
1.148-3
1545-1098
1545-1347
1.148-4
1545-1098
1545-1347
1.148-5
1545-1098
1545-1490
1.148-6
1545-1098
1545-1451
1.148-7
1545-1098
1545-1347
1.148-8
1545-1098
1.148-11
1545-1098
1545-1347
1.149(e)-1
1545-0720
1.150-1
1545-1347
1.151-1
1545-0074
1.152-3
1545-0071
1545-1783
1.152-4
1545-0074
1.152-4T
1545-0074
1.162-1
1545-0139
1.162-2
1545-0139
1.162-3
1545-0139
1.162-4
1545-0139
1.162-5
1545-0139
1.162-6
1545-0139
1.162-7
1545-0139
1.162-8
1545-0139
1.162-9
1545-0139
1.162-10
1545-0139
1.162-11
1545-0139
1.162-12
1545-0139
1.162-13
1545-0139
1.162-14
1545-0139
1.162-15
1545-0139
1.162-16
1545-0139
1.162-17
1545-0139
1.162-18
1545-0139
1.162-19
1545-0139
1.162-20
1545-0139
1.162-24
1545-2115
1.162-27
1545-1466
1.163-5
1545-0786
1545-1132
1.163-8T
1545-0995
1.163-10T
1545-0074
1.163-13
1545-1491
1.163(d)-1
1545-1421
1.165-1
1545-0177
1.165-2
1545-0177
1.165-3
1545-0177
1.165-4
1545-0177
1.165-5
1545-0177
1.165-6
1545-0177
1.165-7
1545-0177
1.165-8
1545-0177
1.165-9
1545-0177
1.165-10
1545-0177
1.165-11
1545-0074
1545-0177
1545-0786
1.165-12
1545-0786
1.166-1
1545-0123
1.166-2
1545-1254
1.166-4
1545-0123
1.166-10
1545-0123
1.167(a)-5T
1545-1021
1.167(a)-7
1545-0172
1.167(a)-11
1545-0152
1545-0172
1.167(a)-12
1545-0172
1.167(d)-1
1545-0172
1.167(e)-1
1545-0172
1.167(f)-11
1545-0172
1.167(l)-1
1545-0172
1.168(d)-1
1545-1146
1.168(i)-1
1545-1331
1.168-5
1545-0172
1.169-4
1545-0172
1.170-1
1545-0074
1.170-2
1545-0074
1.170-3
1545-0123
1.170A-1
1545-0074
1.170A-2
1545-0074
1.170A-4(A)(b)
1545-0123
1.170A-8
1545-0074
1.170A-9
1545-0052
1545-0074
1.170A-11
1545-0074
1545-0123
1545-1868
1.170A-12
1545-0020
1545-0074
1.170A-13
1545-0074
1545-0754
1545-0908
1545-1431
1.170A-13(f)
1545-1464
1.170A-14
1545-0763
1.170A-15
1545-1953
1.170A-16
1545-1953
1.170A-17
1545-1953
1.170A-18
1545-1953
1.171-4
1545-1491
1.171-5
1545-1491
1.172-1
1545-0172
1.172-13
1545-0863
1.173-1
1545-0172
1.174-3
1545-0152
1.174-4
1545-0152
1.175-3
1545-0187
1.175-6
1545-0152
1.179-2
1545-1201
1.179-3
1545-1201
1.179-5
1545-0172
1545-1201
1.179B-1T
1545-2076
1.179C-1
1545-2103
1.179C-1T
1545-2103
1.180-2
1545-0074
1.181-1
1545-2059
1.181-2
1545-2059
1.181-3
1545-2059
1.182-6
1545-0074
1.183-1
1545-0195
1.183-2
1545-0195
1.183-3
1545-0195
1.183-4
1545-0195
1.190-3
1545-0074
1.194-2
1545-0735
1.194-4
1545-0735
1.195-1
1545-1582
1.197-1T
1545-1425
1.197-2
1545-1671
1.199-6
1545-1966
1.213-1
1545-0074
1.215-1T
1545-0074
1.217-2
1545-0182
1.243-3
1545-0123
1.243-4
1545-0123
1.243-5
1545-0123
1.248-1
1545-0172
1.261-1
1545-1041
1.263(a)-1
1545-2248
1.263(a)-3
1545-2248
1.263(a)-5
1545-1870
1.263(e)-1
1545-0123
1.263A-1
1545-0987
1.263A-1T
1545-0187
1.263A-2
1545-0987
1.263A-3
1545-0987
1.263A-8(b)(2)(iii)
1545-1265
1.263A-9(d)(1)
1545-1265
1.263A-9(f)(1)(ii)
1545-1265
1.263A-9(f)(2)(iv)
1545-1265
1.263A-9(g)(2)(iv)(C)
1545-1265
1.263A-9(g)(3)(iv)
1545-1265
1.265-1
1545-0074
1.265-2
1545-0123
1.266-1
1545-0123
1.267(f)-1
1545-0885
1.268-1
1545-0184
1.274-1
1545-0139
1.274-2
1545-0139
1.274-3
1545-0139
1.274-4
1545-0139
1.274-5
1545-0771
1.274-5A
1545-0139
1545-0771
1.274-5T
1545-0074
1545-0172
1545-0771
1.274-6
1545-0139
1545-0771
1.274-6T
1545-0074
1545-0771
1.274-7
1545-0139
1.274-8
1545-0139
1.279-6
1545-0123
1.280C-4
1545-1155
1.280F-3T
1545-0074
1.280G-1
1545-1851
1.281-4
1545-0123
1.302-4
1545-0074
1.305-3
1545-0123
1.305-5
1545-1438
1.307-2
1545-0074
1.312-15
1545-0172
1.316-1
1545-0123
1.331-1
1545-0074
1.332-4
1545-0123
1.332-6
1545-2019
1.336-2
1545-2125
1.336-4
1545-2125
1.337(d)-1
1545-1160
1.337(d)-2
1545-1160
1545-1774
1.337(d)-4
1545-1633
1.337(d)-5
1545-1672
1.337(d)-6
1545-1672
1.337(d)-7
1545-1672
1.338-2
1545-1658
1.338-5
1545-1658
1.338-10
1545-1658
1.338-11
1545-1990
1.338(h)(10)-1
1545-1658
1.338(i)-1
1545-1990
1.351-3
1545-2019
1.355-5
1545-2019
1.362-2
1545-0123
1.362-4
1545-2247
1.367(a)-1T
1545-0026
1.367(a)-2T
1545-0026
1.367(a)-3
1545-0026
1545-1478
1.367(a)-3T
1545-2183
1.367(a)-6T
1545-0026
1.367(a)-7
1545-2183
1.367(a)-7T
1545-2183
1.367(a)-8
1545-1271
1545-2056
1545-2183
1.367(b)-1
1545-1271
1.367(b)-3T
1545-1666
1.367(d)-1T
1545-0026
1.367(e)-1
1545-1487
1.367(e)-2
1545-1487
1.368-1
1545-1691
1.368-3
1545-2019
1.371-1
1545-0123
1.371-2
1545-0123
1.374-3
1545-0123
1.381(b)-1
1545-0123
1.381(c)(4)-1
1545-0123
1545-0152
1545-0879
1.381(c)(5)-1
1545-0123
1545-0152
1.381(c)(6)-1
1545-0123
1545-0152
1.381(c)(8)-1
1545-0123
1.381(c)(10)-1
1545-0123
1.381(c)(11)-1(k)
1545-0123
1.381(c)(13)-1
1545-0123
1.381(c)(17)-1
1545-0045
1.381(c)(22)-1
1545-1990
1.381(c)(25)-1
1545-0045
1.382-1T
1545-0123
1.382-2
1545-0123
1.382-2T
1545-0123
1.382-3
1545-1281
1545-1345
1.382-4
1545-1120
1.382-6
1545-1381
1.382-8
1545-1434
1.382-9
1545-1120
1545-1260
1545-1275
1545-1324
1.382-11
1545-2019
1.382-91
1545-1260
1545-1324
1.383-1
1545-0074
1545-1120
1.401-1
1545-0020
1545-0197
1545-0200
1545-0534
1545-0710
1.401(a)-11
1545-0710
1.401(a)-20
1545-0928
1.401(a)-31
1545-1341
1.401(a)-50
1545-0710
1.401(a)(9)-1
1545-1573
1.401(a)(9)-3
1545-1466
1.401(a)(9)-4
1545-1573
1.401(a)(9)-6
1545-2234
1.401(a)(31)-1
1545-1341
1.401(b)-1
1545-0197
1.401(f)-1
1545-0710
1.401(k)-1
1545-1039
1545-1069
1545-1669
1545-1930
1.401(k)-2
1545-1669
1.401(k)-3
1545-1669
1.401(k)-4
1545-1669
1.401(m)-3
1545-1699
1.401-14
1545-0710
1.402(c)-2
1545-1341
1.402(f)-1
1545-1341
1545-1632
1.402A-1
1545-1992
1.403(b)-1
1545-0710
1.403(b)-3
1545-0996
1.403(b)-7
1545-1341
1.403(b)-10
1545-2068
1.404(a)-12
1545-0710
1.404A-2
1545-0123
1.404A-6
1545-0123
1.408-2
1545-0390
1.408-5
1545-0747
1.408-6
1545-0203
1545-0390
1.408-7
1545-0119
1.408(q)-1
1545-1841
1.408A-2
1545-1616
1.408A-4
1545-1616
1.408A-5
1545-1616
1.408A-7
1545-1616
1.410(a)-2
1545-0710
1.410(d)-1
1545-0710
1.411(a)-11
1545-1471
1545-1632
1.411(d)-4
1545-1545
1.411(d)-6
1545-1477
1.412(c)(1)-2
1545-0710
1.412(c)(2)-1
1545-0710
1.412(c)(3)-2
1545-0710
1.414(c)-5
1545-0797
1.414(r)-1
1545-1221
1.415-2
1545-0710
1.415-6
1545-0710
1.417(a)(3)-1
1545-0928
1.417(e)-1
1545-1471
1545-1724
1.417(e)-1T
1545-1471
1.419A(f)(6)-1
1545-1795
1.422-1
1545-0820
1.430(f)-1
1545-2095
1.430(g)-1
1545-2095
1.430(h)(2)-1
1545-2095
1.432(e)(9)-1T
1545-2260
1.436-1
1545-2095
1.441-2
1545-1748
1.442-1
1545-0074
1545-0123
1545-0134
1545-0152
1545-0820
1545-1748
1.443-1
1545-0123
1.444-3T
1545-1036
1.444-4
1545-1591
1.446-1
1545-0074
1545-0152
1.446-4(d)
1545-1412
1.448-1(g)
1545-0152
1.448-1(h)
1545-0152
1.448-1(i)
1545-0152
1.448-2
1545-1855
1.448-2T
1545-0152
1545-1855
1.451-1
1545-0091
1.451-4
1545-0123
1.451-6
1545-0074
1.451-7
1545-0074
1.453-1
1545-0152
1.453-2
1545-0152
1.453-8
1545-0152
1545-0228
1.453A-1
1545-0152
1545-1134
1.453A-3
1545-0963
1.454-1
1545-0074
1.455-2
1545-0152
1.455-6
1545-0123
1.456-2
1545-0123
1.456-6
1545-0123
1.456-7
1545-0123
1.457-8
1545-1580
1.458-1
1545-0879
1.458-2
1545-0152
1.460-1
1545-1650
1.460-6
1545-1031
1545-1572
1545-1732
1.461-1
1545-0074
1.461-2
1545-0096
1.461-4
1545-0917
1.461-5
1545-0917
1.463-1T
1545-0916
1.465-1T
1545-0712
1.466-1T
1545-0152
1.466-4
1545-0152
1.468A-3
1545-1269
1545-1378
1545-1511
1.468A-3(h), 1.468A-7, and 1.468A-8(d)
1545-2091
1.468A-4
1545-0954
1.468A-7
1545-0954
1545-1511
1.468A-8
1545-1269
1.468B-1
1545-1631
1.468B-1(j)
1545-1299
1.468B-2(k)
1545-1299
1.468B-2(l)
1545-1299
1.468B-3(b)
1545-1299
1.468B-3(e)
1545-1299
1.468B-5(b)
1545-1299
1.468B-9
1545-1631
1.469-1
1545-1008
1.469-2T
1545-0712
1545-1091
1.469-4T
1545-0985
1545-1037
1.469-7
1545-1244
1.471-2
1545-0123
1.471-5
1545-0123
1.471-6
1545-0123
1.471-8
1545-0123
1.471-11
1545-0123
1545-0152
1.472-1
1545-0042
1545-0152
1.472-2
1545-0152
1.472-3
1545-0042
1.472-5
1545-0152
1.472-8
1545-0028
1545-0042
1545-1767
1.475(a)-4
1545-1945
1.481-4
1545-0152
1.481-5
1545-0152
1.482-1
1545-1364
1.482-4
1545-1364
1.482-7
1545-1364
1545-1794
1.482-9(b)
1545-2149
1.501(a)-1
1545-0056
1545-0057
1.501(c)(3)-1
1545-0056
1.501(c)(9)-5
1545-0047
1.501(c)(17)-3
1545-0047
1.501(e)-1
1545-0814
1.501(r)-3
1545-0047
1.501(r)-4
1545-0047
1.501(r)-6
1545-0047
1.503(c)-1
1545-0047
1545-0052
1.505(c)-1T
1545-0916
1.506-1
1545-2268
1.507-1
1545-0052
1.507-2
1545-0052
1.508-1
1545-0052
1545-0056
1.509(a)-3
1545-0047
1.509(a)-4
1545-2157
1.509(a)-5
1545-0047
1.509(c)-1
1545-0052
1.512(a)-1
1545-0687
1.512(a)-4
1545-0047
1545-0687
1.521-1
1545-0051
1545-0058
1.527-2
1545-0129
1.527-5
1545-0129
1.527-6
1545-0129
1.527-9
1545-0129
1.528-8
1545-0127
1.529A-2
1545-2293
1.529A-5
1545-2262
1.529A-6
1545-2262
1.529A-7
1545-2262
1.533-2
1545-0123
1.534-2
1545-0123
1.542-3
1545-0123
1.545-2
1545-0123
1.545-3
1545-0123
1.547-2
1545-0045
1545-0123
1.547-3
1545-0123
1.561-1
1545-0044
1.561-2
1545-0123
1.562-3
1545-0123
1.563-2
1545-0123
1.564-1
1545-0123
1.565-1
1545-0043
1545-0123
1.565-2
1545-0043
1.565-3
1545-0043
1.565-5
1545-0043
1.565-6
1545-0043
1.585-1
1545-0123
1.585-3
1545-0123
1.585-8
1545-1290
1.597-2
1545-1300
1.597-4
1545-1300
1.597-6
1545-1300
1.597-7
1545-1300
1.611-2
1545-0099
1.611-3
1545-0007
1545-0099
1545-1784
1.612-4
1545-0074
1.612-5
1545-0099
1.613-3
1545-0099
1.613-4
1545-0099
1.613-6
1545-0099
1.613-7
1545-0099
1.613A-3
1545-0919
1.613A-3(e)
1545-1251
1.613A-3(l)
1545-0919
1.613A-5
1545-0099
1.613A-6
1545-0099
1.614-2
1545-0099
1.614-3
1545-0099
1.614-5
1545-0099
1.614-6
1545-0099
1.614-8
1545-0099
1.617-1
1545-0099
1.617-3
1545-0099
1.617-4
1545-0099
1.631-1
1545-0007
1.631-2
1545-0007
1.641(b)-2
1545-0092
1.642(c)-1
1545-0092
1.642(c)-2
1545-0092
1.642(c)-5
1545-0074
1.642(c)-6
1545-0020
1545-0074
1545-0092
1.642(g)-1
1545-0092
1.642(i)-1
1545-0092
1.645-1
1545-1578
1.663(b)-2
1545-0092
1.664-1
1545-0196
1.664-1(a)(7)
1545-1536
1.664-1(c)
1545-2101
1.664-2
1545-0196
1.664-3
1545-0196
1.664-4
1545-0020
1545-0196
1.665(a)-0A through
1.665(g)-2A
1545-0192
1.666(d)-1A
1545-0092
1.671-4
1545-1442
1.671-5
1545-1540
1.701-1
1545-0099
1.702-1
1545-0074
1.703-1
1545-0099
1.704-2
1545-1090
1.706-1
1545-0074
1545-0099
1545-0134
1.706-1T
1545-0099
1.706-4(f)
1545-0123
1.707-3(c)(2)
1545-1243
1.707-5(a)(7)(ii)
1545-1243
1.707-6(c)
1545-1243
1.707-8
1545-1243
1.708-1
1545-0099
1.732-1
1545-0099
1545-1588
1.736-1
1545-0074
1.743-1
1545-0074
1545-1588
1.751-1
1545-0074
1545-0099
1545-0941
1.752-2
1545-1905
1.752-5
1545-1090
1.752-7
1545-1843
1.754-1
1545-0099
1.755-1
1545-0099
1.761-2
1545-1338
1.801-1
1545-0123
1545-0128
1.801-3
1545-0123
1.801-5
1545-0128
1.801-8
1545-0128
1.804-4
1545-0128
1.811-2
1545-0128
1.812-2
1545-0128
1.815-6
1545-0128
1.818-4
1545-0128
1.818-5
1545-0128
1.818-8
1545-0128
1.819-2
1545-0128
1.822-5
1545-1027
1.822-6
1545-1027
1.822-8
1545-1027
1.822-9
1545-1027
1.826-1
1545-1027
1.826-2
1545-1027
1.826-3
1545-1027
1.826-4
1545-1027
1.826-6
1545-1027
1.831-3
1545-0123
1.832-4
1545-1227
1.832-5
1545-0123
1.848-2(g)(8)
1545-1287
1.848-2(h)(3)
1545-1287
1.848-2(i)(4)
1545-1287
1.851-2
1545-1010
1.851-4
1545-0123
1.852-1
1545-0123
1.852-4
1545-0123
1545-0145
1.852-6
1545-0123
1545-0144
1.852-7
1545-0074
1.852-9
1545-0074
1545-0123
1545-0144
1545-0145
1545-1783
1.852-11
1545-1094
1.853-3
1545-2035
1.853-4
1545-2035
1.854-2
1545-0123
1.855-1
1545-0123
1.856-2
1545-0123
1545-1004
1.856-6
1545-0123
1.856-7
1545-0123
1.856-8
1545-0123
1.857-8
1545-0123
1.857-9
1545-0074
1.858-1
1545-0123
1.860-2
1545-0045
1.860-4
1545-0045
1545-1054
1545-1057
1.860E-1
1545-1675
1.860E-2(a)(5)
1545-1276
1.860E-2(a)(7)
1545-1276
1.860E-2(b)(2)
1545-1276
1.860G-2
1545-2110
1.861-2
1545-0089
1.861-3
1545-0089
1.861-4
1545-1900
1.861-8
1545-0126
1.861-8(e)(6) and (g)
1545-1224
1.861-9T
1545-0121
1545-1072
1.861-18
1545-1594
1.863-1
1545-1476
1.863-3
1545-1476
1545-1556
1.863-3A
1545-0126
1.863-4
1545-0126
1.863-7
1545-0132
1.863-8
1545-1718
1.863-9
1545-1718
1.864-4
1545-0126
1.871-1
1545-0096
1.871-6
1545-0795
1.871-7
1545-0089
1.871-10
1545-0089
1545-0165
1.874-1
1545-0089
1.881-4
1545-1440
1.882-4
1545-0126
1.883-0
1545-1677
1.883-1
1545-1677
1.883-2
1545-1677
1.883-3
1545-1677
1.883-4
1545-1677
1.883-5
1545-1677
1.884-0
1545-1070
1.884-1
1545-1070
1.884-2
1545-1070
1.884-2T
1545-0126
1545-1070
1.884-4
1545-1070
1.884-5
1545-1070
1.892-1T
1545-1053
1.892-2T
1545-1053
1.892-3T
1545-1053
1.892-4T
1545-1053
1.892-5T
1545-1053
1.892-6T
1545-1053
1.892-7T
1545-1053
1.897-2
1545-0123
1545-0902
1.897-3
1545-0123
1.897-5T
1545-0902
1.897-6T
1545-0902
1.901-2
1545-0746
1.901-2A
1545-0746
1.901-3
1545-0122
1.902-1
1545-0122
1545-1458
1.904-1
1545-0121
1545-0122
1.904-2
1545-0121
1545-0122
1.904-3
1545-0121
1.904-4
1545-0121
1.904-5
1545-0121
1.904-7
1545-2104
1.904-7T
1545-2104
1.904(f)-1
1545-0121
1545-0122
1.904(f)-2
1545-0121
1.904(f)-3
1545-0121
1.904(f)-4
1545-0121
1.904(f)-5
1545-0121
1.904(f)-6
1545-0121
1.904(f)-7
1545-1127
1.905-2
1545-0122
1.905-3T
1545-1056
1.905-4T
1545-1056
1.905-5T
1545-1056
1.911-1
1545-0067
1545-0070
1.911-2
1545-0067
1545-0070
1.911-3
1545-0067
1545-0070
1.911-4
1545-0067
1545-0070
1.911-5
1545-0067
1545-0070
1.911-6
1545-0067
1545-0070
1.911-7
1545-0067
1545-0070
1.913-13
1545-0067
1.921-1T
1545-0190
1545-0884
1545-0935
1545-0939
1.921-2
1545-0884
1.927(a)-1T
1545-0935
1.927(d)-2T
1545-0935
1.931-1
1545-0074
1545-0123
1.934-1
1545-0782
1.935-1
1545-0074
1545-0087
1545-0803
1.936-1
1545-0215
1545-0217
1.936-4
1545-0215
1.936-5
1545-0704
1.936-6
1545-0215
1.936-7
1545-0215
1.936-10(c)
1545-1138
1.937-1
1545-1930
1.952-2
1545-0126
1.953-2
1545-0126
1.954-1
1545-1068
1.954-2
1545-1068
1.955-2
1545-0123
1.955-3
1545-0123
1.955A-2
1545-0755
1.955A-3
1545-0755
1.956-1
1545-0704
1.956-2
1545-0704
1.959-1
1545-0704
1.959-2
1545-0704
1.960-1
1545-0122
1.962-2
1545-0704
1.962-3
1545-0704
1.964-1
1545-0126
1545-0704
1545-1072
1545-2104
1.964-3
1545-0126
1.970-2
1545-0126
1.985-2
1545-1051
1545-1131
1.985-3
1545-1051
1.987-1
1545-2265
1.987-3
1545-2265
1.987-9
1545-2265
1.987-10
1545-2265
1.988-0
1545-1131
1.988-1
1545-1131
1.988-2
1545-1131
1.988-3
1545-1131
1.988-4
1545-1131
1.988-5
1545-1131
1.988-6
1545-1831
1.992-1
1545-0190
1545-0938
1.992-2
1545-0190
1545-0884
1545-0938
1.992-3
1545-0190
1545-0938
1.992-4
1545-0190
1545-0938
1.993-3
1545-0938
1.993-4
1545-0938
1.994-1
1545-0938
1.995-5
1545-0938
1.1001-1
1545-1902
1.1012-1
1545-0074
1545-1139
1.1014-4
1545-0184
1.1015-1
1545-0020
1.1017-1
1545-1539
1.1031(d)-1T
1545-1021
1.1033(a)-2
1545-0184
1.1033(g)-1
1545-0184
1.1039-1
1545-0184
1.1041-1T
1545-0074
1.1041-2
1545-1751
1.1042-1T
1545-0916
1.1044(a)-1
1545-1421
1.1045-1
1545-1893
1.1060-1
1545-1658
1545-1990
1.1071-1
1545-0184
1.1071-4
1545-0184
1.1081-4
1545-0028
1545-0046
1545-0123
1.1081-11
1545-2019
1.1082-1
1545-0046
1.1082-2
1545-0046
1.1082-3
1545-0046
1545-0184
1.1082-4
1545-0046
1.1082-5
1545-0046
1.1082-6
1545-0046
1.1083-1
1545-0123
1.1092(b)-1T
1545-0644
1.1092(b)-2T
1545-0644
1.1092(b)-3T
1545-0644
1.1092(b)-4T
1545-0644
1.1092(b)-5T
1545-0644
1.1211-1
1545-0074
1.1212-1
1545-0074
1.1221-2
1545-1480
1.1231-1
1545-0177
1545-0184
1.1231-2
1545-0177
1545-0184
1.1231-2
1545-0074
1.1232-3
1545-0074
1.1237-1
1545-0184
1.1239-1
1545-0091
1.1242-1
1545-0184
1.1243-1
1545-0123
1.1244(e)-1
1545-0123
1545-1447
1.1245-1
1545-0184
1.1245-2
1545-0184
1.1245-3
1545-0184
1.1245-4
1545-0184
1.1245-5
1545-0184
1.1245-6
1545-0184
1.1248-7
1545-0074
1.1248(f)-2
1545-2183
1.1248(f)-3T
1545-2183
1.1250-1
1545-0184
1.1250-2
1545-0184
1.1250-3
1545-0184
1.1250-4
1545-0184
1.1250-5
1545-0184
1.1251-1
1545-0184
1.1251-2
1545-0074
1545-0184
1.1251-3
1545-0184
1.1251-4
1545-0184
1.1252-1
1545-0184
1.1252-2
1545-0184
1.1254-1(c)(3)
1545-1352
1.1254-4
1545-1493
1.1254-5(d)(2)
1545-1352
1.1258-1
1545-1452
1.1272-3
1545-1353
1.1273-2(f)(9)
1545-1353
1.1273-2(h)(2)
1545-1353
1.1274-3(d)
1545-1353
1.1274-5(b)
1545-1353
1.1274A-1(c)
1545-1353
1.1275-2
1545-1450
1.1275-3
1545-0887
1545-1353
1545-1450
1.1275-4
1545-1450
1.1275-6
1545-1450
1.1287-1
1545-0786
1.1291-9
1545-1507
1.1291-10
1545-1304
1545-1507
1.1294-1T
1545-1002
1545-1028
1.1295-1
1545-1555
1.1295-3
1545-1555
1.1298-3
1545-1507
1.1301-1
1545-1662
1.1311(a)-1
1545-0074
1.1361-1
1545-0731
1545-1591
1545-2114
1.1361-3
1545-1590
1.1361-5
1545-1590
1.1362-1
1545-1308
1.1362-2
1545-1308
1.1362-3
1545-1308
1.1362-4
1545-1308
1.1362-5
1545-1308
1.1362-6
1545-1308
1.1362-7
1545-1308
1.1362-8
1545-1590
1.1363-2
1545-1906
1.1366-1
1545-1613
1.1367-1(f)
1545-1139
1.1368-1(f)(2)
1545-1139
1.1368-1(f)(3)
1545-1139
1.1368-1(f)(4)
1545-1139
1.1368-1(g)(2)
1545-1139
1.1374-1A
1545-0130
1.1377-1
1545-1462
1.1378-1
1545-1748
1.1383-1
1545-0074
1.1385-1
1545-0074
1545-0098
1.1388-1
1545-0118
1545-0123
1.1397E-1
1545-1908
1.1398-1
1545-1375
1.1398-2
1545-1375
1.1402(a)-2
1545-0074
1.1402(a)-5
1545-0074
1.1402(a)-11
1545-0074
1.1402(a)-15
1545-0074
1.1402(a)-16
1545-0074
1.1402(b)-1
1545-0171
1.1402(c)-2
1545-0074
1.1402(e)(1)-1
1545-0074
1.1402(e)(2)-1
1545-0074
1.1402(e)-1A
1545-0168
1.1402(e)-2A
1545-0168
1.1402(e)-3A
1545-0168
1.1402(e)-4A
1545-0168
1.1402(e)-5A
1545-0168
1.1402(f)-1
1545-0074
1.1402(h)-1
1545-0064
1.1411-10(g)
1545-2227
1.1441-1
1545-1484
1.1441-2
1545-0795
1.1441-3
1545-0165
1545-0795
1.1441-4
1545-1484
1.1441-5
1545-0096
1545-0795
1545-1484
1.1441-6
1545-0055
1545-0795
1545-1484
1.1441-7
1545-0795
1.1441-8
1545-1053
1545-1484
1.1441-9
1545-1484
1.1443-1
1545-0096
1.1445-1
1545-0902
1.1445-2
1545-0902
1545-1060
1545-1797
1.1445-3
1545-0902
1545-1060
1545-1797
1.1445-4
1545-0902
1.1445-5
1545-0902
1.1445-6
1545-0902
1545-1060
1.1445-7
1545-0902
1.1445-8
1545-0096
1.1445-9T
1545-0902
1.1445-10T
1545-0902
1.1446-1
1545-1934
1.1446-3
1545-1934
1.1446-4
1545-1934
1.1446-5
1545-1934
1.1446-6
1545-1934
1.1451-1
1545-0054
1.1451-2
1545-0054
1.1461-1
1545-0054
1545-0055
1545-0795
1545-1484
1.1461-2
1545-0054
1545-0055
1545-0096
1545-0795
1.1462-1
1545-0795
1.1502-5
1545-0257
1.1502-9
1545-1634
1.1502-13
1545-0123
1545-0885
1545-1161
1545-1433
1.1502-16
1545-0123
1.1502-19
1545-0123
1545-1774
1.1502-20
1545-1774
1.1502-21
1545-0123
1.1502-31
1545-1344
1.1502-32
1545-1344
1545-1774
1.1502-33
1545-1344
1.1502-35
1545-1828
1.1502-36
1545-2096
1.1502-47
1545-0123
1.1502-75
1545-0025
1545-0123
1545-0133
1545-0152
1.1502-76
1545-1344
1.1502-77
1545-1699
1.1502-77A
1545-0123
1545-1046
1.1502-77B
1545-1699
1.1502-78
1545-0582
1.1502-95
1545-1218
1.1502-96
1545-1218
1.1503(d)-1
1545-1946
1.1503(d)-3
1545-1946
1.1503(d)-4
1545-1946
1.1503(d)-5
1545-1946
1.1503(d)-6
1545-1946
1.1552-1
1545-0123
1.1561-3
1545-0123
1.1563-1
1545-0123
1545-0797
1545-2019
1.1563-3
1545-0123
1.5000A-3
1545-0074
1.5000A-4
1545-0074
1.5000C-2
1545-0096
1545-2263
1.5000C-3
1545-0096
1545-2263
1.5000C-4
1545-1223
1545-0074
1.6001-1
1545-0058
1545-0074
1545-0099
1545-0123
1545-0865
1.6011-1
1545-0055
1545-0074
1545-0085
1545-0089
1545-0090
1545-0091
1545-0096
1545-0121
1545-0458
1545-0666
1545-0675
1545-0908
1.6011-2
1545-0055
1545-0938
1.6011-3
1545-0238
1545-0239
1.6011-4
1545-1685
1.6012-1
1545-0067
1545-0074
1545-0085
1545-0089
1545-0675
1.6012-2
1545-0047
1545-0051
1545-0067
1545-0123
1545-0126
1545-0128
1545-0130
1545-0175
1545-0687
1545-0890
1545-1023
1545-1027
1.6012-3
1545-0047
1545-0067
1545-0092
1545-0196
1545-0687
1.6012-4
1545-0067
1.6012-5
1545-0067
1545-0936
1545-0967
1545-0970
1545-0991
1545-1023
1545-1033
1545-1079
1.6012-6
1545-0067
1545-0089
1545-0129
1.6013-1
1545-0074
1.6013-2
1545-0091
1.6013-6
1545-0074
1.6013-7
1545-0074
1.6015-5
1545-1719
1.6015(a)-1
1545-0087
1.6015(b)-1
1545-0087
1.6015(d)-1
1545-0087
1.6015(e)-1
1545-0087
1.6015(f)-1
1545-0087
1.6015(g)-1
1545-0087
1.6015(h)-1
1545-0087
1.6015(i)-1
1545-0087
1.6017-1
1545-0074
1545-0087
1545-0090
1.6031(a)-1
1545-1583
1.6031(b)-1T
1545-0099
1.6031(c)-1T
1545-0099
1.6032-1
1545-0099
1.6033-2
1545-0047
1545-0049
1545-0052
1545-0092
1545-0687
1545-1150
1545-2117
1.6033-3
1545-0052
1.6034-1
1545-0092
1545-0094
1.6035-2
1545-0704
1.6037-1
1545-0130
1545-1023
1.6038-2
1545-1617
1545-2020
1.6038-3
1545-1617
1.6038A-2
1545-1191
1.6038A-3
1545-1191
1545-1440
1.6038B-1
1545-1617
1545-2183
1.6038B-1T
1545-0026
1545-2183
1.6038B-2
1545-1617
1.6039-2
1545-0820
1.6041-1
1545-0008
1545-0108
1545-0112
1545-0115
1545-0120
1545-0295
1545-0350
1545-0367
1545-0387
1545-0441
1545-0957
1545-1705
1.6041-2
1545-0008
1545-0119
1545-0350
1545-0441
1545-1729
1.6041-3
1545-1148
1.6041-4
1545-0115
1545-0295
1545-0367
1545-0387
1545-0957
1.6041-5
1545-0295
1545-0367
1545-0387
1545-0957
1.6041-6
1545-0008
1545-0115
1.6041-7
1545-0112
1545-0295
1545-0350
1545-0367
1545-0387
1545-0441
1545-0957
1.6042-1
1545-0110
1.6042-2
1545-0110
1545-0295
1545-0367
1545-0387
1545-0957
1.6042-3
1545-0295
1545-0367
1545-0387
1545-0957
1.6042-4
1545-0110
1.6043-1
1545-0041
1.6043-2
1545-0041
1545-0110
1545-0295
1545-0387
1.6043-3
1545-0047
1.6044-1
1545-0118
1.6044-2
1545-0118
1.6044-3
1545-0118
1.6044-4
1545-0118
1.6044-5
1545-0118
1.6045-1
1545-0715
1545-1705
1.6045-1(c)(3)(xi)(C)
1545-2186
1.6045-1(n)(5)
1545-2186
1.6045A-1
1545-2186
1.6045-2
1545-0115
1.6045-4
1545-1085
1.6046-1
1545-0704
1545-0794
1545-1317
1.6046-2
1545-0704
1.6046-3
1545-0704
1.6046A
1545-1646
1.6047-1
1545-0119
1545-0295
1545-0387
1.6047-2
1545-2234
1.6049-1
1545-0112
1545-0117
1545-0295
1545-0367
1545-0387
1545-0597
1545-0957
1.6049-2
1545-0117
1.6049-3
1545-0117
1.6049-4
1545-0096
1545-0112
1545-0117
1545-1018
1545-1050
1.6049-5
1545-0096
1545-0112
1545-0117
1.6049-6
1545-0096
1.6049-7
1545-1018
1.6050A-1
1545-0115
1.6050B-1
1545-0120
1.6050D-1
1545-0120
1545-0232
1.6050E-1
1545-0120
1.6050H-1
1545-0901
1545-1380
1.6050H-2
1545-0901
1545-1339
1545-1380
1.6050I-2
1545-1449
1.6050J-1T
1545-0877
1.6050K-1
1545-0941
1.6050S-1
1545-1678
1.6050S-2
1545-1729
1.6050S-3
1545-1678
1.6050S-4
1545-1729
1.6052-1
1545-0008
1.6052-2
1545-0008
1.6055-1
1545-2252
1.6055-2
1545-2252
1.6060-1
1545-0074
1.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
1.6061-1
1545-0123
1.6062-1
1545-0123
1.6063-1
1545-0123
1.6065-1
1545-0123
1.6071-1
1545-0123
1545-0810
1.6072-1
1545-0074
1.6072-2
1545-0123
1545-0807
1.6073-1
1545-0087
1.6073-2
1545-0087
1.6073-3
1545-0087
1.6073-4
1545-0087
1.6074-1
1545-0123
1.6074-2
1545-0123
1.6081-1
1545-0066
1545-0148
1545-0233
1545-1057
1545-1081
1.6081-2
1545-0148
1545-1036
1545-1054
1.6081-3
1545-0233
1.6081-4
1545-0188
1545-1479
1.6081-6
1545-0148
1545-1054
1.6081-7
1545-0148
1545-1054
1.6091-3
1545-0089
1.6107-1
1545-0074
1545-1231
1.6109-1
1545-0074
1.6109-2
1545-2176
1.6115-1
1545-1464
1.6151-1
1545-0074
1.6153-1
1545-0087
1.6153-4
1545-0087
1.6161-1
1545-0087
1.6162-1
1545-0087
1.6164-1
1545-0135
1.6164-2
1545-0135
1.6164-3
1545-0135
1.6164-5
1545-0135
1.6164-6
1545-0135
1.6164-7
1545-0135
1.6164-8
1545-0135
1.6164-9
1545-0135
1.6302-1
1545-0257
1.6302-2
1545-0098
1545-0257
1.6411-1
1545-0098
1545-0135
1545-0582
1.6411-2
1545-0098
1545-0582
1.6411-3
1545-0098
1545-0582
1.6411-4
1545-0582
1.6414-1
1545-0096
1.6425-1
1545-0170
1.6425-2
1545-0170
1.6425-3
1545-0170
1.6654-1
1545-0087
1545-0140
1.6654-2
1545-0087
1.6654-3
1545-0087
1.6655(e)-1
1545-1421
1.6662-3(c)
1545-0889
1.6662-4(e) and (f)
1545-0889
1.6662-6
1545-1426
1.6694-1
1545-0074
1.6694-2
1545-0074
1.6694-2(c)
1545-1231
1.6694-2(c)(3)
1545-1231
1.6694-3(e)
1545-1231
1.6695-1
1545-0074
1545-1385
1.6696-1
1545-0074
1545-0240
1.6851-1
1545-0086
1545-0138
1.6851-2
1545-0086
1545-0138
1.7476-1
1545-0197
1.7476-2
1545-0197
1.7519-2T
1545-1036
1.7520-1
1545-1343
1.7520-2
1545-1343
1.7520-3
1545-1343
1.7520-4
1545-1343
1.7701(l)-3
1545-1642
1.7872-15
1545-1792
1.9100-1
1545-0074
1.9101-1
1545-0008
2.1-4
1545-0123
2.1-5
1545-0123
2.1-6
1545-0123
2.1-10
1545-0123
2.1-11
1545-0123
2.1-12
1545-0123
2.1-13
1545-0123
2.1-20
1545-0123
2.1-22
1545-0123
2.1-26
1545-0123
3.2
1545-0123
4.954-1
1545-1068
4.954-2
1545-1068
5.6411-1
1545-0042
1545-0074
1545-0098
1545-0129
1545-0172
1545-0582
1545-0619
5c.44F-1
1545-0619
5c.128-1
1545-0123
5c.305-1
1545-0110
5c.442-1
1545-0152
5f.103-1
1545-0720
5f.6045-1
1545-0715
6a.103A-2
1545-0123
1545-0720
6a.103A-3
1545-0720
7.465-1
1545-0712
7.465-2
1545-0712
7.465-3
1545-0712
7.465-4
1545-0712
7.465-5
1545-0712
7.936-1
1545-0217
7.999-1
1545-0216
7.6039A-1
1545-0015
7.6041-1
1545-0115
11.410-1
1545-0710
11.412(c)-7
1545-0710
11.412(c)-11
1545-0710
12.7
1545-0190
12.8
1545-0191
12.9
1545-0195
14a.422A-1
1545-0123
15A.453-1
1545-0228
16A.126-2
1545-0074
16A.1255-1
1545-0184
16A.1255-2
1545-0184
18.1371-1
1545-0130
18.1378-1
1545-0130
18.1379-1
1545-0130
18.1379-2
1545-0130
20.2010-2
1545-0015
20.2011-1
1545-0015
20.2014-5
1545-0015
1545-0260
20.2014-6
1545-0015
20.2016-1
1545-0015
20.2031-2
1545-0015
20.2031-3
1545-0015
20.2031-4
1545-0015
20.2031-6
1545-0015
20.2031-7
1545-0020
20.2031-10
1545-0015
20.2032-1
1545-0015
20.2032A-3
1545-0015
20.2032A-4
1545-0015
20.2032A-8
1545-0015
20.2039-4
1545-0015
20.2051-1
1545-0015
20.2053-3
1545-0015
20.2053-9
1545-0015
20.2053-10
1545-0015
20.2055-1
1545-0015
20.2055-2
1545-0015
1545-0092
20.2055-3
1545-0015
20.2056(b)-4
1545-0015
20.2056(b)-7
1545-0015
1545-1612
20.2056A-2
1545-1443
20.2056A-3
1545-1360
20.2056A-4
1545-1360
20.2056A-10
1545-1360
20.2106-1
1545-0015
20.2106-2
1545-0015
20.2204-1
1545-0015
20.2204-2
1545-0015
20.6001-1
1545-0015
20.6011-1
1545-0015
20.6018-1
1545-0015
1545-0531
20.6018-2
1545-0015
20.6018-3
1545-0015
20.6018-4
1545-0015
1545-0022
20.6036-2
1545-0015
20.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
20.6061-1
1545-0015
20.6065-1
1545-0015
20.6075-1
1545-0015
20.6081-1
1545-0015
1545-0181
1545-1707
20.6091-1
1545-0015
20.6107-1
1545-1231
20.6161-1
1545-0015
1545-0181
20.6161-2
1545-0015
1545-0181
20.6163-1
1545-0015
20.6166-1
1545-0181
20.6166A-1
1545-0015
20.6166A-3
1545-0015
20.6324A-1
1545-0754
20.7520-1
1545-1343
20.7520-2
1545-1343
20.7520-3
1545-1343
20.7520-4
1545-1343
22.0
1545-0015
25.2511-2
1545-0020
25.2512-2
1545-0020
25.2512-3
1545-0020
25.2512-5
1545-0020
25.2512-9
1545-0020
25.2513-1
1545-0020
25.2513-2
1545-0020
1545-0021
25.2513-3
1545-0020
25.2518-2
1545-0959
25.2522(a)-1
1545-0196
25.2522(c)-3
1545-0020
1545-0196
25.2523(a)-1
1545-0020
1545-0196
25.2523(f)-1
1545-0015
25.2701-2
1545-1241
25.2701-4
1545-1241
25.2701-5
1545-1273
25.2702-5
1545-1485
25.2702-6
1545-1273
25.6001-1
1545-0020
1545-0022
25.6011-1
1545-0020
25.6019-1
1545-0020
25.6019-2
1545-0020
25.6019-3
1545-0020
25.6019-4
1545-0020
25.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
25.6061-1
1545-0020
25.6065-1
1545-0020
25.6075-1
1545-0020
25.6081-1
1545-0020
25.6091-1
1545-0020
25.6091-2
1545-0020
25.6107-1
1545-1231
25.6151-1
1545-0020
25.6161-1
1545-0020
25.7520-1
1545-1343
25.7520-2
1545-1343
25.7520-3
1545-1343
25.7520-4
1545-1343
26.2601-1
1545-0985
26.2632-1
1545-0985
1545-1892
26.2642-1
1545-0985
26.2642-2
1545-0985
26.2642-3
1545-0985
26.2642-4
1545-0985
26.2642-6
1545-1902
26.2642-7(i)(3) and (4)
1545-2116
26.2652-2
1545-0985
26.2654-1
1545-1902
26.2662-1
1545-0015
1545-0985
26.2662-2
1545-0985
26.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
26.6107-1
1545-1231
31.3102-3
1545-0029
1545-0059
1545-0065
31.3121(b)(19)-1
1545-0029
31.3121(d)-1
1545-0004
31.3121(i)-1
1545-0034
31.3121(r)-1
1545-0029
31.3121(s)-1
1545-0029
31.3121(v)(2)-1
1545-1643
31.3302(a)-2
1545-0028
31.3302(a)-3
1545-0028
31.3302(b)-2
1545-0028
31.3302(e)-1
1545-0028
31.3306(c)(18)-1
1545-0029
31.3401(a)-1
1545-0029
31.3401(a)(6)
1545-1484
31.3401(a)(6)-1
1545-0029
1545-0096
1545-0795
31.3401(a)(7)-1
1545-0029
31.3401(a)(8)(A)-1 .
1545-0029
1545-0666
31.3401(a)(8)(C)-1 .
1545-0029
31.3401(a)(15)-1
1545-0182
31.3401(c)-1
1545-0004
31.3402(b)-1
1545-0010
31.3402(c)-1
1545-0010
31.3402(f)(1)-1
1545-0010
31.3402(f)(2)-1
1545-0010
1545-0410
31.3402(f)(3)-1
1545-0010
31.3402(f)(4)-1
1545-0010
31.3402(f)(4)-2
1545-0010
31.3402(f)(5)-1
1545-0010
1545-1435
31.3402(h)(1)-1
1545-0029
31.3402(h)(3)-1
1545-0010
1545-0029
31.3402(h)(4)-1
1545-0010
31.3402(i)-(1)
1545-0010
31.3402(i)-(2)
1545-0010
31.3402(k)-1
1545-0065
31.3402(l)-(1)
1545-0010
31.3402(m)-(1)
1545-0010
31.3402(n)-(1)
1545-0010
31.3402(o)-2
1545-0415
31.3402(o)-3
1545-0008
1545-0010
1545-0415
1545-0717
31.3402(p)-1
1545-0415
1545-0717
31.3402(q)-1
1545-0238
1545-0239
31.3404-1
1545-0029
31.3405(c)-1
1545-1341
31.3406(a)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(a)-2
1545-0112
31.3406(a)-3
1545-0112
31.3406(a)-4
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(2)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(2)-2
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(2)-3
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(2)-4
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(2)-5
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(3)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(3)-2
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(3)-3
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(3)-4
1545-0112
31.3406(b)(4)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(c)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(d)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(d)-2
1545-0112
31.3406(d)-3
1545-0112
31.3406(d)-4
1545-0112
31.3406(d)-5
1545-0112
31.3406(e)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(f)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(g)-1
1545-0096
1545-0112
1545-1819
31.3406(g)-2
1545-0112
31.3406(g)-3
1545-0112
31.3406(h)-1
1545-0112
31.3406(h)-2
1545-0112
31.3406(h)-3
1545-0112
31.3406(i)-1
1545-0112
31.3501(a)-1T
1545-0771
31.3503-1
1545-0024
31.3504-1
1545-0029
31.3511-1
1545-2266
31.6001-1
1545-0798
31.6001-2
1545-0034
1545-0798
31.6001-3
1545-0798
31.6001-4
1545-0028
31.6001-5
1545-0798
31.6001-6
1545-0029
1459-0798
31.6011(a)-1
1545-0029
1545-0034
1545-0035
1545-0059
1545-0074
1545-0256
1545-0718
1545-2097
31.6011(a)-2
1545-0001
1545-0002
31.6011(a)-3
1545-0028
31.6011(a)-3A
1545-0955
31.6011(a)-4
1545-0034
1545-0035
1545-0718
1545-1413
1545-2097
31.6011(a)-5
1545-0028
1545-0718
1545-2097
31.6011(a)-6
1545-0028
31.6011(a)-7
1545-0074
31.6011(a)-8
1545-0028
31.6011(a)-9
1545-0028
31.6011(a)-10
1545-0112
31.6011(b)-1
1545-0003
31.6011(b)-2
1545-0029
31.6051-1
1545-0008
1545-0182
1545-0458
1545-1729
31.6051-2
1545-0008
31.6051-3
1545-0008
31.6053-1
1545-0029
1545-0062
1545-0064
1545-0065
1545-1603
31.6053-2
1545-0008
31.6053-3
1545-0065
1545-0714
31.6053-4
1545-0065
1545-1603
31.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
31.6065(a)-1
1545-0029
31.6071(a)-1
1545-0001
1545-0028
1545-0029
31.6071(a)-1A
1545-0955
31.6081(a)-1
1545-0008
1545-0028
31.6091-1
1545-0028
1545-0029
31.6107-1
1545-1231
31.6157-1
1545-0955
31.6205-1
1545-0029
1545-2097
31.6301(c)-1AT
1545-0035
1545-0112
1545-0257
31.6302-1
1545-1413
31.6302-2
1545-1413
31.6302-3
1545-1413
31.6302-4
1545-1413
31.6302(c)-2
1545-0001
1545-0257
31.6302(c)-2A
1545-0955
31.6302(c)-3
1545-0257
31.6402(a)-2
1545-0256
1545-2097
31.6413(a)-1
1545-0029
1545-2097
31.6413(a)-2
1545-0029
1545-0256
1545-2097
31.6413(c)-1
1545-0029
1545-0171
31.6414-1
1545-0029
1545-2097
32.1
1545-0029
1545-0415
32.2
1545-0029
35a.3406-2
1545-0112
35a.9999-5
1545-0029
36.3121(l)(1)-1
1545-0137
36.3121(l)(1)-2
1545-0137
36.3121(l)(3)-1
1545-0123
36.3121(1)(7)-1
1545-0123
36.3121(1)(10)-1
1545-0029
36.3121(1)(10)-3
1545-0029
36.3121(1)(10)-4
1545-0257
40.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
40.6107-1
1545-1231
40.6302(c)-3(b)(2)(ii)
1545-1296
40.6302(c)-3(b)(2)(iii)
1545-1296
40.6302(c)-3(e)
1545-1296
40.6302(c)-3(f)(2)(ii)
1545-1296
41.4481-1
1545-0143
41.4481-2
1545-0143
41.4483-3
1545-0143
41.6001-1
1545-0143
41.6001-2
1545-0143
41.6001-3
1545-0143
41.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
41.6071(a)-1
1545-0143
41.6081(a)-1
1545-0143
41.6091-1
1545-0143
41.6107-1
1545-1231
41.6109-1
1545-0143
41.6151(a)-1
1545-0143
41.6156-1
1545-0143
41.6161(a)(1)-1
1545-0143
44.4401-1
1545-0235
44.4403-1
1545-0235
44.4412-1
1545-0236
44.4901-1
1545-0236
44.4905-1
1545-0236
44.4905-2
1545-0236
44.6001-1
1545-0235
44.6011(a)-1
1545-0235
1545-0236
44.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
44.6071-1
1545-0235
44.6091-1
1545-0235
44.6107-1
1545-1231
44.6151-1
1545-0235
44.6419-1
1545-0235
44.6419-2
1545-0235
46.4371-4
1545-0023
46.4374-1
1545-0023
46.4375-1
1545-2238
46.4376-1
1545-2238
46.4701-1
1545-0023
1545-0257
48.4041-4
1545-0023
48.4041-5
1545-0023
48.4041-6
1545-0023
48.4041-7
1545-0023
48.4041-9
1545-0023
48.4041-10
1545-0023
48.4041-11
1545-0023
48.4041-12
1545-0023
48.4041-13
1545-0023
48.4041-19
1545-0023
48.4041-20
1545-0023
48.4041-21
1545-1270
48.4042-2
1545-0023
48.4052-1
1545-1418
48.4061(a)-1
1545-0023
48.4061(a)-2
1545-0023
48.4061(b)-3
1545-0023
48.4064-1
1545-0014
1545-0242
48.4071-1
1545-0023
48.4073-1
1545-0023
48.4073-3
1545-0023
1545-1074
1545-1087
48.4081-2
1545-1270
1545-1418
48.4081-3
1545-1270
1545-1418
1545-1897
48.4081-4(b)(2)(ii)
1545-1270
48.4081-4(b)(3)(i)
1545-1270
48.4081-4(c)
1545-1270
48.4081-6(c)(1)(ii)
1545-1270
48.4081-7
1545-1270
1545-1418
48.4082-1T
1545-1418
48.4082-2
1545-1418
48.4082-6
1545-1418
48.4082-7
1545-1418
48.4101-1
1545-1418
48.4101-1T
1545-1418
48.4101-2
1545-1418
48.4161(a)-1
1545-0723
48.4161(a)-2
1545-0723
48.4161(a)-3
1545-0723
48.4161(b)-1
1545-0723
48.4216(a)-2
1545-0023
48.4216(a)-3
1545-0023
48.4216(c)-1
1545-0023
48.4221-1
1545-0023
48.4221-2
1545-0023
48.4221-3
1545-0023
48.4221-4
1545-0023
48.4221-5
1545-0023
48.4221-6
1545-0023
48.4221-7
1545-0023
48.4222(a)-1
1545-0014
1545-0023
48.4223-1
1545-0023
1545-0257
1545-0723
48.6302(c)-1
1545-0023
1545-0257
48.6412-1
1545-0723
48.6416(a)-1
1545-0023
1545-0723
48.6416(a)-2
1545-0723
48.6416(a)-3
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(1)-1
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(1)-2
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(1)-3
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(1)-4
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(2)-1
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(2)-2
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(2)-3
1545-0723
1545-1087
48.6416(b)(2)-4
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(3)-1
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(3)-2
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(3)-3
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(4)-1
1545-0723
48.6416(b)(5)-1
1545-0723
48.6416(c)-1
1545-0723
48.6416(e)-1
1545-0023
1545-0723
48.6416(f)-1
1545-0023
1545-0723
48.6416(g)-1
1545-0723
48.6416(h)-1
1545-0723
48.6420(c)-2
1545-0023
48.6420(f)-1
1545-0023
48.6420-1
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6420-2
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6420-3
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6420-4
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6420-5
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6420-6
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6421-0
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6421-1
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6421-2
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6421-3
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6421-4
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6421-5
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6421-6
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6421-7
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6424-0
1545-0723
48.6424-1
1545-0723
48.6424-2
1545-0723
48.6424-3
1545-0723
48.6424-4
1545-0723
48.6424-5
1545-0723
48.6424-6
1545-0723
48.6427-0
1545-0723
48.6427-1
1545-0023
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6427-2
1545-0162
1545-0723
48.6427-3
1545-0723
48.6427-4
1545-0723
48.6427-5
1545-0723
48.6427-8
1545-1418
48.6427-9
1545-1418
48.6427-10
1545-1418
48.6427-11
1545-1418
49.4251-1
1545-1075
49.4251-2
1545-1075
49.4251-4(d)(2)
1545-1628
49.4253-3
1545-0023
49.4253-4
1545-0023
49.4264(b)-1
1545-0023
1545-0224
1545-0225
1545-0226
1545-0230
1545-0257
1545-0912
49.4271-1(d)
1545-0685
49.5000B-1
1545-2177
51.2(f)(2)(ii)
1545-2209
51.7
1545-2209
52.4682-1(b)(2)(iii)
1545-1153
52.4682-2(b)
1545-1153
1545-1361
52.4682-2(d)
1545-1153
1545-1361
52.4682-3(c)(2)
1545-1153
52.4682-3(g)
1545-1153
52.4682-4(f)
1545-0257
1545-1153
52.4682-5(d)
1545-1361
52.4682-5(f)
1545-1361
53.4940-1
1545-0052
1545-0196
53.4942(a)-1
1545-0052
53.4942(a)-2
1545-0052
53.4942(a)-3
1545-0052
53.4942(b)-3
1545-0052
53.4945-1
1545-0052
53.4945-4
1545-0052
53.4945-5
1545-0052
53.4945-6
1545-0052
53.4947-1
1545-0196
53.4947-2
1545-0196
53.4948-1
1545-0052
53.4958-6
1545-1623
53.4961-2
1545-0024
53.4963-1
1545-0024
53.6001-1
1545-0052
53.6011-1
1545-0049
1545-0052
1545-0092
1545-0196
53.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
53.6065-1
1545-0052
53.6071-1
1545-0049
53.6081-1
1545-0066
1545-0148
53.6107-1
1545-1231
53.6161-1
1545-0575
54.4975-7
1545-0575
54.4977-1T
1545-0771
54.4980B-6
1545-1581
54.4980B-7
1545-1581
54.4980B-8
1545-1581
54.4980F-1
1545-1780
54.6011-1
1545-0575
54.6011-1T
1545-0575
54.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
54.6107-1
1545-1231
54.9801-3
1545-1537
54.9801-4
1545-1537
54.9801-5
1545-1537
54.9801-6
1545-1537
54.9812-1T
1545-2165
54.9815-1251T
1545-2178
54.9815-2711T
1545-2179
54.9815-2712T
1545-2180
54.9815-2714T
1545-2172
54.9815-2715
1545-2229
54.9815-2719AT
1545-2181
54.9815-2719T
1545-2182
55.6001-1
1545-0123
55.6011-1
1545-0123
1545-0999
1545-1016
55.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
55.6061-1
1545-0999
55.6071-1
1545-0999
55.6107-1
1545-1231
56.4911-6
1545-0052
56.4911-7
1545-0052
56.4911-9
1545-0052
56.4911-10
1545-0052
56.6001-1
1545-1049
56.6011-1
1545-1049
56.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
56.6081-1
1545-1049
56.6107-1
1545-1231
56.6161-1
1545-0257
1545-1049
57.2(e)(2)(i)
1545-2249
145.4051-1
1545-0745
145.4052-1
1545-0120
1545-0745
1545-1076
145.4061-1
1545-0224
1545-0230
1545-0257
1545-0745
156.6001-1
1545-1049
156.6011-1
1545-1049
156.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
156.6081-1
1545-1049
156.6107-1
1545-1231
156.6161-1
1545-1049
157.6001-1
1545-1824
157.6011-1
1545-1824
157.6060-1(a)(1)
1545-1231
157.6081-1
1545-1824
157.6107-1
1545-1231
157.6161-1
1545-1824
301.6011-2
1545-0225
1545-0350
1545-0387
1545-0441
1545-0957
301.6011(g)-1
1545-2079
301.6017-1
1545-0090
301.6034-1
1545-0092
301.6036-1
1545-0013
1545-0773
301.6047-1
1545-0367
1545-0957
301.6056-1
1545-2251
301.6056-2
1545-2251
301.6057-1
1545-0710
301.6057-2
1545-0710
301.6058-1
1545-0710
301.6059-1
1545-0710
301.6103(c)-1
1545-1816
301.6103(n)-1
1545-1841
301.6103(p)(2)(B)-1
1545-1757
301.6104(a)-1
1545-0495
301.6104(a)-5
1545-0056
301.6104(a)-6
1545-0056
301.6104(b)-1
1545-0094
1545-0742
301.6104(d)-1
1545-1655
301.6104(d)-2
1545-1655
301.6104(d)-3
1545-1655
301.6109-1
1545-0003
1545-0295
1545-0367
1545-0387
1545-0957
1545-1461
1545-2242
301.6109-3
1545-1564
301.6110-3
1545-0074
301.6110-5
1545-0074
301.6111-1T
1545-0865
1545-0881
301.6111-2
1545-0865
1545-1687
301.6112-1
1545-0865
1545-1686
301.6112-1T
1545-0865
1545-1686
301.6114-1
1545-1126
1545-1484
301.6222(a)-2
1545-0790
301.6222(b)-1
1545-0790
301.6222(b)-2
1545-0790
301.6222(b)-3
1545-0790
301.6223(b)-1
1545-0790
301.6223(c)-1
1545-0790
301.6223(e)-2
1545-0790
301.6223(g)-1
1545-0790
301.6223(h)-1
1545-0790
301.6224(b)-1
1545-0790
301.6224(c)-1
1545-0790
301.6224(c)-3
1545-0790
301.6227(c)-1
1545-0790
301.6227(d)-1
1545-0790
301.6229(b)-2
1545-0790
301.6230(b)-1
1545-0790
301.6230(e)-1
1545-0790
301.6231(a)(1)-1
1545-0790
301.6231(a)(7)-1
1545-0790
301.6231(c)-1
1545-0790
301.6231(c)-2
1545-0790
301.6316-4
1545-0074
301.6316-5
1545-0074
301.6316-6
1545-0074
301.6316-7
1545-0029
301.6324A-1
1545-0015
301.6361-1
1545-0024
1545-0074
301.6361-2
1545-0024
301.6361-3
1545-0074
301.6402-2
1545-0024
1545-0073
1545-0091
301.6402-3
1545-0055
1545-0073
1545-0091
1545-0132
1545-1484
301.6402-5
1545-0928
301.6404-1
1545-0024
301.6404-2T
1545-0024
301.6404-3
1545-0024
301.6405-1
1545-0024
301.6501(c)-1
1545-1241
1545-1637
301.6501(d)-1
1545-0074
1545-0430
301.6511(d)-1
1545-0024
1545-0582
301.6511(d)-2
1545-0024
1545-0582
301.6511(d)-3
1545-0024
1545-0582
301.6652-2
1545-0092
301.6685-1
1545-0092
301.6689-1T
1545-1056
301.6707-1T
1545-0865
1545-0881
301.6708-1T
1545-0865
301.6712-1
1545-1126
301.6903-1
1545-0013
1545-1783
301.6905-1
1545-0074
301.7001-1
1545-0123
301.7101-1
1545-1029
301.7207-1
1545-0092
301.7216-2
1545-0074
301.7216-2(o)
1545-1209
301.7425-3
1545-0854
301.7430-2(c)
1545-1356
301.7502-1
1545-1899
301.7507-8
1545-0123
301.7507-9
1545-0123
301.7513-1
1545-0429
301.7517-1
1545-0015
301.7605-1
1545-0795
301.7623-1
1545-0409
1545-1534
301.7654-1
1545-0803
301.7701-3
1545-1486
301.7701-4
1545-1465
301.7701-7
1545-1600
301.7701-16
1545-0795
301.7701(b)-1
1545-0089
301.7701(b)-2
1545-0089
301.7701(b)-3
1545-0089
301.7701(b)-4
1545-0089
301.7701(b)-5
1545-0089
301.7701(b)-6
1545-0089
301.7701(b)-7
1545-0089
1545-1126
301.7701(b)-9
1545-0089
301.7705-1
1545-2266
301.7705-2
1545-2266
301.7805-1
1545-0805
301.9000-5
1545-1850
301.9001-1
1545-0220
301.9100-2
1545-1488
301.9100-3
1545-1488
301.9100-4T
1545-0016
1545-0042
1545-0074
1545-0129
1545-0172
1545-0619
301.9100-6T
1545-0872
301.9100-7T
1545-0982
301.9100-8
1545-1112
301.9100-11T
1545-0123
301.9100-12T
1545-0026
1545-0074
1545-0172
1545-1027
301.9100-14T
1545-0046
301.9100-15T
1545-0046
301.9100-16T
1545-0152
302.1-7
1545-0024
305.7701-1
1545-0823
305.7871-1
1545-0823
420.0-1
1545-0710
Part 509
1545-0846
Part 513
1545-0834
Part 514
1545-0845
Part 521
1545-0848
601.104
1545-0233
601.105
1545-0091
601.201
1545-0019
1545-0819
601.204
1545-0152
601.401
1545-0257
601.504
1545-0150
601.601
1545-0800
601.602
1545-0295
1545-0387
1545-0957
601.702
1545-0429
[T.D. 8011, 50 FR 10222, Mar. 14, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 602.101, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
26 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
26 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
1 Authority citation amended
1953, 43080, 71752, 76931
1 Technical correction
8726, 11841, 47027, 69500, 79837
1.1441-0 Amended
198
1.1441-1 (b)(7)(ii)(B), (c)(2)(ii), (3)(ii), (38), (e)(2)(ii)(B), (3)(iv)(C)(
3
), (4)(i)(B), (ii)(A)(
2
), (iv)(C), (E), (f)(1), and (3) revised; (e)(3)(iv)(B) and (4)(ii)(D)(
1
) amended; (e)(4)(iv)(F) added; (f)(4) and (5) removed
199
1.1441-1T Removed
203
1.1441-2 (a)(8) and (f) revised
203
1.1441-2T Removed
203
1.1441-4 (h) removed
203
1.1441-6 (b)(1)(i), (ii), (c)(5)(i), and (i)(3) revised; (i)(1) amended; (b)(2)(iv)
Examples 1
through
4
redesignated as (b)(2)(iv)(A) through (D)
203
1.1441-6 Correction: (b)(2)(iv)(D) revised
13045
1.1441-6T Removed
203
1.1441-7 (b)(4)(i) amended; (b)(10)(iv) and (g) revised
204
1.1441-7T Removed
204
1.1445-2 (b)(2)(v) added; (e) amended
76932
1.1445-5 (b)(3)(iv) added; (c)(1)(ii), (iii)(A), (B) introductory text, (iv), (3)(ii), (d)(1), and (h) amended
76932
1.1445-8 (c)(2)(i) and (f) revised; (j) added
76932
1.1446-0 Amended
76933
1.1446-3 (b)(2)(v)(C) and (g) revised
5324
1.1446-3 (c)(4) added; (d)(2)(vi)
Examples 1
through
3
and (e)(4)
Examples 1
through
3
redesignated as (d)(2)(vi)(A) through (C) and (e)(4)(i) through (iii); (a)(2)(i), new (d)(2)(vi)(A) through (C) and new (e)(4)(i) through (iii) amended; new (e)(4)(i)(i) through (viii), new (ii)(i) through (v), and new (iii)(i) through (v) further redesignated as new (e)(4)(i)(A) through (H), new (ii)(A) through (E), and new (iii)(A) through (E); new (e)(4)(i)(B), new (E) through (G), new (ii) introductory text, new (iii) introductory text, and new (A) through D amended; (g) removed
76933
1.1446-3T Removed
5324
1.1446-4 (b)(3), (4), (d), (e), and (f)(3) revised; (c) and (f)(1) amended
76934
1.1446-6 (e)(1) amended
76935
1.1446-7 Heading revised; section amended
76935
1.1446(f)-1 Added
76935
1.1446(f)-2 Added
76935
1.1446(f)-3 Added
76935
1.1446(f)-4 Added
76935
1.1446(f)-5 Added
76935
1.1461-1 (a)(1), (c)(1)(i), (ii)(B)(
3
), (
4
), (2)(i) introductory text, (N), (O), and (4)(ii)(A) amended; (c)(1)(ii)(A)(
8
) and (i) revised; (c)(1)(ii)(B)(
5
), (2)(i)(P), (Q), and (R) added
76945
1.1461-2 (a)(1) and (d) revised; (b) amended
76946
1.1461-3 Amended
76946
1.1463-1 (a) amended
76946
1.1464-1 (a) amended; (c) revised
76947
1.1471-0 Amended
204
1.1471-1 (b)(99) revised
204
1.1471-1T Removed
204
1.1471-3 (c)(1), (3)(iii)(B)(
5
), (7)(ii), and (d)(6)(i)(F) revised; (c)(6)(ii)(E)(
3
) amended
204
1.1471-3T Removed
205
1.1471-4 (c)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
iii
), (d)(2)(ii)(G), (4)(iv)(C), (D) introductory text, (7) introductory text, and (j)(2) revised
205
1.1471-4T Removed
206
1.1474-1 (d)(4)(vii) revised
206
1.1474-1T Removed
206
1.1502-1 (k) and (l) added
67974
1.1502-4 Revised
72072
1.1502-12 (t) added
43112
1.1502-13 (c)(7)(ii)
Example 1
through
Example 17
redesignated as (c)(7)(ii)(A) through (Q); new (c)(7)(ii)(A)(a) through (i), (B)(a), (b), (C)(a) through (d), (D)(a) through (e), (E)(a) through (f), (F)(a) through (d), (G)(a) through (d), (I)(a) through (e), (J)(a) through (d), (K)(a) through (d), (L)(a), (b), (N)(a), (b), (c), (O)(a) through (d), (P)(a), (b), (Q)(a), (b), and (c) redesignated as (c)(7)(ii)(A)(
1
) through (
9
), (B)(
1
), (
2
), (C)(
1
) through (
4
), (D)(
1
) through (
5
),(E)(
1
) through (
6
), (F)(
1
) through (
4
), (G)(
1
) through (
4
), (I)(
1
) through (
5
), (J)(
1
) through (
4
), (K)(
1
) through (
4
), (L)(
1
), (
2
), (N)(
1
), (
2
), (
3
), (O)(
1
) through (
4
), (P)(
1
), (
2
), (Q)(
1
), (
2
), and (
3
); (a)(6)(ii), new (c)(7)(ii)(A)(
5
) through (
9
), new (C)(
3
), new (
4
), new (D)(
5
), new (E)(
3
) through (
6
), new (F)(
3
), new (
4
), new (G)(
4
), new (I)(
3
), new (
4
), new (
5
), new (J)(
4
), new (
4
), new (K)(
4
), new (N)(
2
), new (O)(
4
), new (Q)(
1
), new (
2
), and (iii)(A) amended
43112
1.1502-13 Correction: (c)(7)(ii)(Q)(a) through (c) redesignated as (c)(7)(ii)(Q)(
1
) through (
3
)
60910
1.1502-13 (a)(6)(ii) amended; (h)(2)
Examples 1
through
5
redesignated as (h)(2)(i) through (v); (h)(2)(vi) added
56843
1.1502-13 (c)(7)(ii)(R) added
43113
1.1502-13 (c)(7)(ii)(N) revised
79853
1.1502-14Z Added
1993
1.1502-14Z Correction: (b)(1)(iv)(A), (B), (C), (v), (c)(2)(i), (3) introductory text, (f)(2)(i), (ii)(A), (D)(
3
)(
i
), (iii)(A), (g)(3)(ii), (h)(3)(iii)(A), (j)(1)(i), and (ii)(A) amended; (k)(2) introductory text revised
19086
1.1502-21 (c)(3) added
56843
1.1502-21 (b)(2)(v)
Examples 1
,
2
,
3
, (c)(1)(iii)
Examples 1
through
5
, (B)(i) through (vi), (C)(i), (ii), (iii), (D)(i) through (iv), (E)(i) through (v), and (2)(viii)
Examples 1
through
4
redesignated as (b)(2)(v)(A), (B), (C), (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (E), (B)(
1
) through (
6
), (C)(
1
), (
2
), (
3
), (D)(
1
) through (
4
), (E)(
1
) through (
5
), and (2)(viii)(A) through (D); new (b)(2)(v)(A)(i), new (ii), new (B)(i), new (ii), new (C)(i), new (ii), new (c)(1)(iii)(A)(i), new (ii), new (iii), new (2)(viii)(A)(i) through (vii), new (B)(i) through (iv), new (C)(i), new (ii), new (iii), new (D)(i), and new (ii) redesignated as (b)(2)(v)(A)(
1
), (
2
), (B)(
1
), (
2
), (C)(
1
), (
2
), (c)(1)(iii)(A)(
1
), (
2
), (
3
), (2)(viii)(A)(
1
) through (
7
), (B)(
1
) through (
4
), (C)(
1
), (
2
), (
3
), (D)(
1
), and (
2
); (b)(2)(v)(D) through (G), (3)(ii)(D), (c)(1)(i)(E), (iii)(D)(
5
), (E)(
6
), and (F) added; (a), (b)(1), (2)(iv), (v) introductory text, (3)(ii)(C), (c)(1)(i) introductory text, (iii) introductory text, new (A)(
2
), new (B)(
2
) through (
6
), new (D)(
2
), (
3
), (
4
), new (E)(
2
) through (
5
), (2)(v), and (viii) introductory text revised; (b)(3)(ii)(B), (c)(1)(i)(C)(
2
), (D), new (iii)(C)(
2
), and new (2)(viii)(A)(
3
) through (
7
) amended
67974
1.1502-21 (c)(2)(viii)(B)(
4
), (g)(5)
Examples 1
through
9
, (g)(5)(i)(i) through (iv), (ii)(i) through (iv), (iii)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv)(i) through (iv), (v)(i) through (iv), (vi)(i) through (iv), (vii)(i) through (vi), (viii)(i) through (v), and (ix)(i) through (vii) redesignated as (c)(2)(viii)(B)(
5
), (g)(5)(i) through (ix), (g)(5)(i)(A) through (D), (ii)(A) through (D), (iii)(A), (B), (C), (iv)(A) through (D), (v)(A) through (D), (vi)(A) through (D), (vii)(A) through (F), (viii)(A) through (E), and (ix)(A) through (G); new (c)(2)(viii)(B)(
4
), (
6
), and (h)(10) added; (c)(2)(viii)(B)(
1
) amended; (c)(2)(viii)(B)(
3
), new (B)(
5
), and (h)(9) revised
67975
1.1502-21 (b)(2)(iv)(B)(
1
) amended
72074
1.1502-21T Revised (temporary)
40896
1.1502-21T (b)(3)(ii)(C)(
1
), (
5
)(
i
), (
ii
), (D)(
2
)(
ii
), and (
4
)(
ii
) amended
53162
1.1502-36 (f)(2) amended; (h) heading revised; (h) redesignated as (h)(1); (h)(1) heading and (2) added
56843
1.1502-47 (a)(3), (b), and (c) removed; (a)(4), (d), new (b)(14)
Examples 1
through
14
, (e), and (f) redesignated as new (a)(3), new (b), new (b)(14)(i) through (xiv), new (c), and (d); (a)(2)(i), (ii), new (b)(1) through (5), new (10), new (11), new (13), new (14)(ii), and new (d)(5) revised; new (b)(14)(xiv), new (c)(4), new (5), and new (d)(7)(ii) removed; new (c)(6) and new (d)(7)(iii) redesignated as new (c)(4) and new (d)(7)(ii); new (d)(7)(ii) revised; (b)(14)(i) and (d)(6) amended
67981
1.1502-47 (a)(4), (d)(12)(i)(A), (C), (D), (iii) through (v), (B) through (D), (vi), (vii), (viii)(A), (D), (F), (14),
Examples 1
through
5
, through
13
, (g), (h), (m), (q), (r), and (s) redesignated as (a)(3), (b)(12)(i)(A), (C), (D), (iii), (iv), (v), (B), (C), (D), (vi), (vii), (viii)(A), (D), (F), (14), (i) through (v), (viii) through (xiii), (e), (f), new (h), (k), (l), and new (m); (a)(1), new (3), new (b)(12)(i)(A), new (C), new (D), new (iii), new (iv), new (v), new (B), new (C), new (D), new (vi), new (vii), new (viii)(A), new (D), new (F), new (14), new (i) through (v), new (viii) through (xiii), new (e)(2), new (f)(2)(v), new (h), new (2)(ii), new (3)(iv), new (viii), and new (ix) amended; new (e)(3), new (f)(3), new (h)(4), (j), (k), (l), (o), (p), and (t) removed; new (f)(4), (n), and (h)(5) redesignated as new (f)(3), new (j), and new (h)(4); (h)(4)
Examples 1
through
6
and new (j)(2)(vi) redesignated as (h)(4)(i) through (vi) and new (j)(2)(v); new (f)(2)(iii), new (vi), new (vii), new (3)(ii), new (h)(4) introductory text, new (ii), new (iii), new (v), new (vi), new (j)(2)(iii), and new (3) revised; new (j)(2)(v) removed; new (g) and new (n) added
67982
1.1502-47 (d)(14),
Examples 2
through
12
, (e)(1), (3), (f)(3), (7)(i), (g), (1), (2), (h)(1), (2)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), (4)(i), (iii), (A), (m), (2)(ii), (3)(i), (iii), (v), (vi)(A), (vii)(A), (B), and (viii) redesignated as (b)(14), (ii) through (xii), (c)(1), (3), (d)(3), (7)(i), (e), (1), (2), (f)(1), (2)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), (3)(i), (iii), (A), (h), (2)(ii), (3)(i), (iii), (v), (vi)(A), (vii)(A), (B), and (viii); new (b)(14), new (ii) through (xii), new (c)(1), new (3), new (d)(3), new (7)(i), new (e), new (1), new (2), new (f)(1), new (2)(i), new (ii), new (iv), new (v), new (3)(i), new (iii), new (A), new (h), new (2)(ii), new (3)(i), new (iii), new (v), new (vi)(A), new (vii)(A), new (B), and new (viii) amended
67983
1.1502-47 (m)(3)(ix), (x), (xii), (5),
Examples 1
through
4
, (n), (1), (2), (ii), (iv), (q), (r), (s)(1)(iii), (iv), and (v) redesignated as (h)(3)(ix), (x), (xii), (4), (i) through (iv), (j), (1), (2), (ii), (iv), (k), (l), (m)(1)(iii), (iv), and (v); new (h)(3)(ix), new (x), new (xii), new (4), new (i) through (iv), new (j), new (1), new (2), new (ii), new (iv), new (k), new (l), new (m)(1)(iii), new (iv), and new (v) amended
67984
1.1502-50 Added
43113
1.1502-51 (g)(1) amended
44649
1.1502-59A Correction: transferred under 1.1502-42—1.1502-55 undesignated center heading
49595
1.1502-59A (f)(6), (14), and (21) amended
64369
1.1502-68 Added
71765
1.1502-79 (f) added
56843
1.1502-90 Amended
56843
1.1502-91 (e)(2) revised
56844
1.1502-95 (b)(4)
56844
1.1502-98 Heading revised; undesignated text designated as (a); new (a) heading and (b) added
56844
1.1502-99 (d) added
56844
1.1503(d)-1 (c) redesignated as (d); (b)(2)(iii) and new (c) added; (b)(2)(i), (ii), new (d)(1), and new (2)(ii) amended
19855
1.1503(d)-3 (e)(1) introductory text amended; (e)(3) added
19855
1.1503(d)-4 (c)(3)(iii)(B) and (iv) amended; (c)(3)(v) added
67988
1.1503(d)-6 (f)(5)(i) through (iii) amended
19855
1.1503(d)-7 (c)
Examples 1
through
40
redesignated as (c)(1) through (40) and amended; (c)(41) added
19855
1.1503(d)-7 Correction: (c)(6)(iii)(A) amended
48651
1.1503(d)-8 (b)(3)(i) and (ii) amended; (b)(6) and (7) added
19856
1.1503(d)-8 (b)(8) added
67988
1.1504-3 Added
2000
1.1504-3 Correction: (b) heading, (1), and (d)(1)(ii) amended; (e)(2) introductory text revised
19086
1.1504-4 (a)(2) and (i) amended
56845
2021
26 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.1446-4 Correction: (f)(1) amended
13191
2022
26 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.1441-3 (c)(4)(i) introductory text, (B)(
2
), and (C) revised; (c)(4)(iii) added
80064
1.1445-1 (g)(11) added
80065
1.1445-2 (b)(2)(i) revised; (b)(2)(vi) added; (e) amended
80065
1.1445-5 (b)(3)(ii)(A), (B), and (D) revised; (h) amended
80065
1.1445-8 (e) revised; (j) amended
80066
1.1446-1 (c)(2)(ii)(G) amended; (c)(2)(ii)(H) revised
80066
1.1446-2 (b)(4)(iii) amended
80066
1.1446-7 Amended
80067
1.1502-51 (b) amended
3656
2023
26 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.1461-1 (c)(5) removed; (i) redesignated as (j); new (i) added; new (j) revised
11763
1.1471-0 Amended
11763
1.1474-1 (e) and (j) revised
11763
1.1502-13 (c)(6)(ii)(D)(
1
)(
i
) and (
ii
) added
50042
1.1502-21 (b)(2)(iii) and (h)(5) amended; (b)(3) and (h)(9) revised; (b)(4) through (7) added
44213
1.1502-21T Removed
44216
1.1502-78 (a) amended
44216
1.1502-80 (j) added
11393
2024
26 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
1 Authority citation amended
58278, 100163, 106851
1.1411-10 (c)(3) heading, (i), and (ii) introductory text revised; (d)(5) added; (c)(3) and (i) amended
58285
1.1502-0 Revised
106852
1.1502-1 (l) redesignated as (m); introductory text and new (l) added; (f)(2), (3), and (g) revised
106852
1.1502-3 (e) removed
106852
1.1502-4 (d)(1) revised
106852
1.1502-5 Revised
106852
1.1502-6 (b) revised
106853
1.1502-9 (a), (b)(1), (c)(2)(ii), and (iii) revised
106854
1.1502-9A Removed
106878
1.1502-11 (b)(2)(iii)
Examples 1
through
3
redesignated as (b)(2)(iii)(A) through (C); new (b)(2)(iii)(A)(a) through (c), (B)(a) through (d), and (C)(a) through (e) redesignated as (b)(2)(iii)(A)(
1
) through (
3
), (B)(
1
) through (
4
), and (c)(
1
) through (
5
); (a), new (b)(2)(iii)(A)(
3
), new (B)(
4
), and (c)(7) revised
106854
1.1502-12 (b) and (n) revised; (e), (g), (m), and (q) removed
106855
1.1502-13 (j)(9) revised; (j)(10) and (l)(7) added
100223
1.1502-13 (a)(3)(i), (6)(ii), (c)(4)(i)(B), (5), (d)(3), (e)(1)(v), (f)(5)(ii)(B)(
2
), (F), (6)(ii), (v), (7), (g)(7)(ii), and (l)(6) revised; (h)(2)(v)(a) and (b) redesignated as (h)(2)(v)(A) and (B); (l)(8) through (10) added; (m) removed
106855
1.1502-15A Removed
106878
1.1502-17 (a) and (e) revised
106867
1.1502-18 Removed
106867
1.1502-21 (b)(3)(i), (4), (h)(6), and (8) revised; (d) removed
106867
1.1502-21A Removed
106878
1.1502-22 (d) removed
106868
1.1502-22A Removed
106878
1.1502-23A Removed
106878
1.1502-24 (a)(2) and (c) revised
106868
1.1502-26 (a) and (c) revised
106868
1.1502-27 Removed
106868
1.1502-32 (j) redesignated as (h)(10); (b)(4)(v), (vii), (5), (h)(2)(i), (5) through (8), and new (10) revised; (k) removed
106868
1.1502-34 Revised
106871
1.1502-41A Removed
106878
1.1502-42 Removed
106872
1.1502-43 (b)(2)(iii) through (viii) and (e) revised
106872
1.1502-44 (b) revised
106872
1.1502-45 Added
106872
1.1502-47 (a)(3), (b)(14)(iii), (c)(2)(ii), (h)(3)(i), (ii), (x), (4) introductory text, (ii), (iii), (k), (l), (m)(1)(i), (iv), and (v) revised
106873
1.1502-75 (b)(1) through (3), (c)(1)(i), (2)(i), (ii), (h)(1), and (2) revised; (d)(5) removed
106874
1.1502-76 (a), (b)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
), (2)(v), (6), (c)(3), and (d) revised
106875
1.1502-77 (g)
Examples 1
through
15
designated as (g)(1) through (15); new (g)(2)(i), new (4)(i), new (5)(i), new (11)(i)(B)(
1
), new (ii)(A), new (12)(i), and new (13)(i) amended
106876
1.1502-77A (d) revised
106876
1.1502-77B (a)(6)(i) and (ii) revised
106876
1.1502-78 (f) revised
106876
1.1502-79 (a), (b), (d), (e)(1), and (2) revised
106876
1.1502-79A Removed
106878
1.1502-80 (c)(2) revised
106877
1.1502-81T Removed
106877
1.1502-90 Table amended
106877
1.1502-90A Removed
106878
1.1502-91 (b)(3) removed
106877
1.1502-91A Removed
106878
1.1502-92 (b)(3)(iii)
Examples 1
through
3
redesignated as (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (C); new (b)(3)(iii)(A)(i), new (ii), new (B)(i) through (iv), new (C)(i), and new (ii) redesignated as new (b)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
), new (
2
), new (B)(
1
) through (
4
), new (C)(
1
), and new (
2
); new (b)(3)(iii)(B)(
2
) through (
4
) revised
106877
1.1502-92A Removed
106878
1.1502-93A Removed
106878
1.1502-94A Removed
106878
1.1502-95A Removed
106878
1.1502-96A Removed
106878
1.1502-97A Removed
106878
1.1502-98A Removed
106878
1.1502-99 (a) and (b) revised; (c) removed; (d) redesignated as new (c)
106877
1.1502-99A Removed
106878
1.1502-100 (a)(2), (c)(2), and (d) revised
106878
1.1503(d)-1 (b)(7) revised
106878
1.1503(d)-8 (a) revised; (b)(1), (2), (3)(ii), (iii), and (4) removed
106878
1.1503-2 Removed
106878
1.1504-3 (d)(1)(ii) revised
106878
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
26 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
1 Authority citation amended
3014
1.1502-13 second (j)(10)(vi) redesignated as (j)(10)(vii)
5607
1.1503(d)-1 (d) redesignated as (e); heading, (a), and new (e) heading revised; new (d) and (f) added; new (e)(1) through (3) amended
3014
1.1503(d)-3 (c)(3) revised; (e)(4) added
3018
1.1503(d)-7 (b)(6)(iii)(B), (c)(11)(i), (ii), (23)(ii), and (25)(ii)(B) amended; (c)(11) heading revised; (c)(42) through (46) added
3018
1.1503(d)-8 Heading revised; (b)(9) through (17) added
3020
○
