(c) A court order affecting military retired pay, even when military retired pay has been waived for inclusion in CSRS annuities, does not award a former spouse survivor annuity under CSRS or FERS. Such a court order does not satisfy the requirements of § 838.804(b)(1).
(d) A court order that requires an employee or retiree to maintain survivor benefits covering the former spouse satisfies the requirements of § 838.804(b)(1), if the former spouse was covered by a CSRS or FERS survivor annuity or the FERS basic employee death benefit as defined in § 843.102 of this chapter at the time of the divorce.
[57 FR 33574, July 29, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993]
§ 838.912
Specifying an award of a former spouse survivor annuity.
(a) To satisfy the requirements of § 838.804(b)(2), a court order must specify that it is awarding a former spouse survivor annuity. The court order must contain language such as “survivor annuity,” “death benefits,” “former spouse survivor annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h)(1),” etc.
(b)(1) A court order that provides that the former spouse is to “continue as” or “be named as” the beneficiary of CSRS survivor benefits or similar language satisfies the requirements of § 838.804(b)(2).
(2) A court order that requires an employee or retiree to maintain survivor
benefits covering the former spouse satisfies the requirements of § 838.804(b)(2), if the former spouse was covered by a CSRS or FERS survivor annuity or the FERS basic employee death benefit as defined in § 843.102 of this chapter at the time of the divorce.
(c) Two types of potential survivor annuities may be provided by retiring employees to cover former spouses. Under CSRS, section 8341(h) of title 5, United States Code, provides for “former spouse survivor annuities” and section 8339(k) of title 5, United States Code, provides for “insurable interest annuities.” These are distinct benefits, each with its own advantages. The corresponding FERS provisions are sections 8445 and 8444, respectively.
(1) OPM will enforce court orders to provide section 8341(h) or section 8445 annuities. These annuities are less expensive and have fewer restrictions than insurable interest annuities but the former spouse's interest will automatically terminate upon remarriage before age 55. To provide a section 8341(h) or section 8445 annuity, the court order must use terms such as “former spouse survivor annuity,” “section 8341(h) annuity,” or “survivor annuity.”
(2) OPM cannot enforce court orders to provide “insurable interest annuities” under section 8339(k) or section 8444. These annuities may only be elected at the time of retirement by a retiring employee who is not retiring under the disability provision of the law and who is in good health. The retirees may also elect to cancel the insurable interest annuity to provide a survivor annuity for a spouse acquired after retirement. The parties might seek to provide this type of annuity interest if the nonemployee spouse expects to remarry before age 55, if the employee expects to remarry a younger second spouse before retirement or if another former spouse has already been awarded a section 8341(h) annuity. However, the court will have to provide its own remedy if the employee is not eligible for or does not make the election. OPM cannot enforce the court order. Language including the words “insurable interest” or referring to section 8339(k) or section 8444 does not satisfy the requirements of § 838.804(b)(2).
(3) In court orders which contain internal contradictions about the type of annuity, such as “insurable interest annuity under section 8341(h),” the section reference will control.
[57 FR 33574, July 29, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993]

# Computation of Benefit
§ 838.921
Determining the amount of a former spouse survivor annuity.
(a) A court order that contains no provision stating the amount of the former spouse survivor annuity provides the maximum former spouse survivor annuity permitted under § 831.641 or § 842.613 of this chapter and satisfies the requirements of § 838.805.
(b)(1) A court order that provides that “a former spouse will keep” or “an employee or retiree will maintain” the survivor annuity to which he or she was entitled at the time of the divorce satisfies the requirements of § 838.805 and provides a former spouse survivor annuity in the same proportion to the maximum survivor annuity under § 831.641 or § 842.613 of this chapter as the former spouse had at the time of divorce. For example, a former spouse of an employee would be entitled to a maximum survivor benefit; a former spouse of a retiree (who was married to the retiree at retirement and continuously until the divorce resulting in the court order) would be entitled to the survivor benefit elected at retirement.
(2) If, at the time of divorce, the employee covered by FERS had at least 18 months of civilian service creditable under FERS but less than 10 years of service creditable under FERS, a former spouse with a court order described in paragraph (b)(1) or paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be entitled to the basic employee death benefit as defined in § 843.102 of this chapter, but is not entitled to any other former spouse survivor annuity based on the court order.
(c)(1) A court order that awards a former spouse survivor annuity of less than $12 per year satisfies the requirements of § 838.805 and provides an initial rate of $1 per month plus all cost-
of-living increases occurring after the later of—
(i) The date of the court order; or
(ii) The date when the employee retires.
(2) The reduction in the employee annuity will be computed as though the court order provided a former spouse survivor annuity of $1 per month.
(d)(1) A court order that awards a former spouse survivor annuity while authorizing the employee or retiree to elect a lesser former spouse survivor annuity upon the employee's or retiree's remarriage satisfies the requirements of § 838.805, and provides the former spouse survivor annuity at the rate initially provided in the court order but does not allow the employee or retiree to elect a lesser benefit for the former spouse.
(2) To provide full survivor annuity benefits to a former spouse while authorizing the employee or retiree to elect a lesser former spouse survivor annuity benefit in order to provide survivor annuity benefits for a subsequent spouse, the court order must provide for a reduction in the former spouse survivor annuity upon the employee's or retiree's election of survivor annuity benefits for a subsequent spouse.
(3) A reduction in the amount of survivor benefits provided to the former spouse does not satisfy the requirements of § 838.805 if it is contingent upon the employee's or annuitant's remarriage rather than his or her election of survivor annuity benefits for a subsequent spouse.
[57 FR 33574, July 29, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993; 58 FR 52882, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 838.922
Prorata share defined.
(a)
Prorata share
means the fraction of the maximum survivor annuity allowable under § 831.641 or § 842.613 of this chapter whose numerator is the number of months of Federal civilian and military service that the employee performed during the marriage and whose denominator is the total number of months of Federal civilian and military service performed by the employee.
(b) A court order that awards a former spouse a “prorata share” of a survivor annuity by using that term and identifying the date when the marriage began satisfies the requirements of § 838.805 and awards the former spouse a former spouse survivor annuity equal to the prorata share as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) A court order that awards a portion of a survivor annuity, as of a specified date before the employee's retirement, awards the former spouse a former spouse survivor annuity equal to the prorata share as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) A court order that awards a portion of the “value” of a survivor annuity as of a specific date before retirement, without specifying what “value” is, awards the former spouse a former spouse survivor annuity equal to a prorata share as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
[57 FR 33574, July 29, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 52882, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 838.923
Cost-of-living adjustment before the death of a retiree.
A court order that awards a former spouse survivor annuity is deemed to order OPM to add to the survivor annuity rate cost-of-living adjustments that occur before the death of a retiree (in the same manner as these adjustments are applied to the survivor rate generally) unless the court order contains an instruction expressly directing OPM not to add these adjustments to the survivor annuity rate. (See § 838.735 for information concerning cost-of-living adjustments after the death of an employee or retiree.)

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 838.931
Court orders that provide temporary awards of former spouse survivor annuities.
A provision in a court order that temporarily awards a former spouse survivor annuity satisfies the requirements of § 838.804(b)(2), but the temporary award becomes permanent on the date on which OPM is barred from honoring a modification of the court order (the date of retirement or death, or, in the case of a post-retirement divorce, the date of the initial court order), as provided in sections 8341(h)(4)
and 8445(d) of title 5, United States Code.
[57 FR 33574, July 29, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993]
§ 838.932
Court orders that permit the former spouse to elect to receive a former spouse survivor annuity.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a court order that gives the former spouse the right to elect a former spouse survivor annuity satisfies the requirements of § 838.804(b)(2) and provides a former spouse survivor annuity in the amount otherwise provided by the court order.
(b) A former spouse who has been awarded a former spouse survivor annuity by a court order that gives the former spouse the right to elect a former spouse survivor annuity may irrevocably elect not to be eligible for a former spouse survivor annuity based on the court order.
(c) The former spouse may make the election under paragraph (b) of this section at any time after the issuance of the court order. An election under paragraph (b) of this section—
(1) Must be in writing and in the form prescribed by OPM;
(2) Is effective on the first day of the month following the month in which OPM received the election; and
(3) Is irrevocable once it has become effective.
(d) The reduction in an employee annuity based on a court order that gives the former spouse the right to elect a former spouse survivor annuity terminates on the last day of the month in which OPM receives the former spouse's election under paragraph (b) of this section.
[57 FR 33574, July 29, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993]
§ 838.933
Payment of the cost of a former spouse survivor annuity.
(a) A court order that unequivocally awards a former spouse survivor annuity and directs the former spouse to pay for that benefit satisfies the requirements of § 838.805, and—
(1) If the former spouse has also been awarded a portion of the employee annuity then the cost of the survivor benefit will be deducted from the former spouse's share of the employee annuity (if sufficient to cover the total cost—there will be no partial withholding); otherwise,
(2) The reduction will be taken from the employee annuity and collection from the former spouse will be a private matter between the parties.
(b) a court order that conditions the award of a former spouse survivor annuity on the former spouse's payment of the cost of the benefit satisfies the requirements of § 838.805 only if a court order acceptable for processing also awards the former spouse a portion of the employee annuity sufficient to cover the cost.

# Model Paragraphs
Pt. 838, Subpt. I, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 838—Recommended Language for Court Orders Awarding Former Spouse Survivor Annuities
This appendix provides recommended language for use in court orders awarding former spouse survivor annuities. A former spouse survivor annuity is not a continuation of a former spouse's share of an employee annuity after the death of the employee. A former spouse's entitlement to a portion of an employee annuity cannot continue after the death of the employee. A court order that attempts to extend the former spouse's entitlement to a portion of an employee annuity past the death of the employee is not effective. The model language in this appendix does not award benefits payable to the former spouse during the lifetime of the employee. A separate, distinct award of a portion of the employee annuity is necessary to award a former spouse a benefit during the lifetime of the employee. Appendix A to subpart F of this part contains model language for a portion of an employee annuity.
Attorneys should exercise great care in preparing provisions concerning former spouse survivor annuities because sections 8341(h)(4) and 8445(d) of title 5, United States Code, prohibit OPM from accepting modifications after the retirement or death of the employee. (See § 838.806 concerning unacceptable modifications.) A court order awarding a former spouse survivor annuity should include four elements:
• Identification of the retirement system;
• Explicit award of the former spouse survivor annuity.
• Method for computing the amount of the former spouse's benefit; and
• Instructions on what OPM should do if the employee leaves Federal service before retirement and applies for a refund of employee contributions.
By using the model language, courts will know that the court order will have the effect described in this appendix.
The model language uses the terms “[former spouse]” to identify the spouse who is receiving a former spouse survivor annuity and “[employee]” to identify the Federal employee whose employment was covered by the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System. Obviously, in drafting an actual court order the appropriate terms, such as “Petitioner” and “Respondent,” or the names of the parties should replace “[former spouse]” and “[employee].”
Similarly, except when the provision applies only to the basic employee death benefit (defined in § 843.103 of this chapter) that is available only under the Federal Employees Retirement System, the models are drafted for employees covered by the Civil Service Retirement System (5 U.S.C. 8331
et seq.
). The name of the retirement system should be changed for employees covered by the Federal Employees Retirement System (5 U.S.C. chapter 84.).
Statutory references used in the models are to CSRS provisions (such as section 8341(h) of title 5, United States Code). When appropriate, the corresponding FERS provision (such as section 8445 of title 5, United States Code) should be used.

# Table of Contents

# 700 Series—Computing the amount of the former spouse's benefit.
¶ 701 Award of the maximum survivor annuity.
¶ 702 Award that continues the pre-divorce survivor annuity benefits.
¶ 703 Award of a prorata share.
¶ 704 Award of a fixed monthly amount.
¶ 705-710 [Reserved]
¶ 711 Award of a percentage or fraction of the employee annuity.
¶ 712 Award based on a stated formula as a share of employee annuity.
¶ 713-720 [Reserved]
¶ 721 Award of a percentage or fraction of the maximum survivor annuity.
¶ 722 Award based on a stated formula as a share of maximum survivor annuity.
¶ 723-750 [Reserved]
¶ 751 Changing amount of former spouse survivor annuity based on remarriage before retirement.
¶ 752 Changing amount of former spouse survivor annuity based on remarriage after retirement.

# 800 Series—Paying the cost of a former spouse survivor annuity.
¶ 801 Costs to be paid from the employee annuity.
¶ 802 Costs to be paid from former spouse's share of the employee annuity.

# 900 Series—Refunds of employee contributions.
¶ 901 Barring payment of a refund of employee contributions.
¶ 902 Dividing a refund of employee contributions.

# 700 Series—Computing the amount of the former spouse's benefit.
Paragraphs 701 through 704 contain model language for awards of former spouse survivor annuities in amounts that do not require specification of the base on which the former spouse's share will be computed. Situations in which the computational base need not be specified include amounts defined by law or regulation. For example, the maximum former spouse survivor annuity is fixed by statute generally at 55 percent of the employee annuity under CSRS and 50 percent of the employee annuity under FERS.
Paragraphs 711 and 712 contain model language for awards of former spouse survivor annuities that use the employee annuity as the base on which the portion awarded will be computed (that is, on which percentage, fraction or formula will be applied). Paragraphs 721 and 722 contain model language for awards of former spouse survivor annuities that use the maximum possible survivor annuity as the base on which the portion awarded will be computed (that is, on which percentage, fraction or formula will be applied). Using the maximum possible survivor annuity as the base will generally award 55 percent under CSRS and 50 percent under FERS of the amount that using the employee annuity as the base would produce.
Paragraphs 750 and higher contain model language to implement the most common other types of awards.
Each model paragraph includes a reference to the statutory provision under CSRS that authorizes OPM to honor court orders awarding former spouse survivor annuities. The FERS statutory provision that corresponds to section 8341(h) (mentioned in the first sentence of each example) is section 8445.
¶ 701 Award of the maximum survivor annuity.
Using the following paragraph will award the maximum possible former spouse survivor annuity. Under CSRS, the maximum possible survivor annuity is 55 percent of the employee annuity unless the surviving spouse or former spouse was married to the retiree at retirement and agreed to a lesser amount at that time. Under FERS, the maximum possible survivor annuity is 50 percent of the employee annuity unless the surviving spouse or former spouse was married to the retiree at retirement and agreed to a lesser amount at that time.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded the maximum possible former spouse survivor
annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System.”
¶ 702 Award that continues the pre-divorce survivor annuity benefits.
Using the following paragraph will award a former spouse survivor annuity equal to the amount that the former spouse would have received if the marriage were never terminated by divorce.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System in the same amount to which [former spouse] would have been entitled if the divorce had not occurred.”
¶ 703 Award of a prorata share.
Using the following paragraph will award the former spouse a prorata share of the maximum possible survivor annuity. Prorata share is defined in § 838.922. To award a prorata share the court order must state the date of the marriage. Unless the court order specifies a different ending date, the marriage ends for computation purposes on the date that the court order is filed with the court clerk.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be equal to a prorate share. The marriage began on [insert date].”
¶ 704 Award of a fixed monthly amount.
Using the following paragraph will award a former spouse survivor annuity that will start at the amount stated in the order when the employee or retiree dies, unless the stated amount exceeds the maximum possible former spouse survivor annuity. If the amount stated in the order exceeds the maximum possible former spouse survivor annuity, the court order will be treated as awarding the maximum. After payment of the former spouse survivor annuity has began, COLA's will be applied in accordance with § 838.735. If the final sentence of this model paragraph is omitted, OPM will add COLA's occurring after the date of the employee's retirement or the date of issuance of the court order, whichever is later.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be equal to $[insert a number] per month. The Office of Personnel Management is ordered not to increase this amount by COLA's occurring before death of [employee or retiree].”
¶ 705-710
[Reserved]
¶ 711 Award of a percentage or fraction of the employee annuity.
Using the following paragraph will award a former spouse survivor annuity equal to the stated percentage or fraction of the employee annuity. The stated percentage or fraction may not exceed 55 percent under CSRS or 50 percent under FERS.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be equal to [insert a percentage or fraction] percent of the [employee]'s employee annuity.”
¶ 712 Award based on a stated formula as a share of employee annuity.
Using the following paragraphs will award a former spouse survivor annuity in an amount to be determined by applying a stated formula to employee annuity. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity may not exceed 55 percent of the employee annuity under CSRS or 50 percent under FERS. The formula must be stated in the court order (including a court-approved property settlement agreement). The formula may not be incorporated by reference to a statutory provision or a court decision in another case. If the court order uses a formula, the court order must include any data that is necessary for OPM to evaluate the formula unless the necessary data is contained in normal OPM files.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be the portion of the [employee]'s employee annuity computed as follows:
“[Insert formula.]”
¶ 713-720
[Reserved]
¶ 721 Award of a percentage or fraction of the maximum survivor annuity.
Using the following paragraph will award a former spouse survivor annuity equal to the stated percentage or fraction of the maximum possible survivor annuity. The stated percentage or fraction may not exceed 100 percent.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be equal to [insert a percentage or fraction] of the maximum possible survivor annuity.
¶ 722 Award based on a stated formula as a share of maximum survivor annuity.
Using the following paragraphs will award a former spouse survivor annuity based on a stated formula to be applied to the maximum possible survivor annuity. The formula must be stated in the court order (including a court-approved property settlement agreement). The formula may not be
incorporated by reference to a statutory provision or a court decision in another case. If the court order uses a formula, the court order must include any data that is necessary for OPM to evaluate the formula unless the necessary data is contained in normal OPM files.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be the portion of the maximum possible survivor annuity computed as follows:
“[Insert formula.]”
¶ 723-750
[Reserved]
¶ 751 Changing amount of former spouse survivor annuity based on remarriage before retirement.
Using the following paragraph will award the maximum possible former spouse survivor annuity unless the employee remarries before retirement. Upon the employee's remarriage before retirement the amount of the former spouse survivor annuity changes to a prorata share. The maximum possible and prorata share are used as examples only; other amounts may be substituted. Similar language is not acceptable for remarriages after retirement.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded the maximum possible former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System unless [employee] remarries before retirement. If [employee] remarries before retirement, under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be equal to a prorata share. The marriage to [former spouse] began on [insert data].”
¶ 752 Changing amount of former spouse survivor annuity based on remarriage after retirement.
Using the following paragraph will award the maximum possible former spouse survivor annuity unless the employee remarries after retirement and elects to provide a survivor annuity for the spouse acquired after retirement. Upon the employee's remarriage after retirement and election to provide a survivor annuity for the spouse acquired after retirement, the amount of the former spouse survivor annuity changes to a prorata share. The maximum possible and prorata share are used as examples only; other amounts maybe substituted. The change in the amount of the former spouse survivor annuity must be triggered by the election, which is a part of normal OPM files, rather than the remarriage, which is not documented in normal OPM files.
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded the maximum possible former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System unless [employee] elects to provide a survivor annuity for a new spouse acquired after retirement. If [employee] elects to provide a survivor annuity to a new spouse acquired after retirement, under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be equal to a prorata share. The marriage to [former spouse] began on [insert data].”

# 800 Series—Paying the cost of a former spouse survivor annuity.
A court order awarding a former spouse survivor annuity requires that the employee annuity be reduced. The reduction lowers the gross employee annuity. The costs associated with providing the former spouse survivor annuity must be paid by annuity reduction. Under § 838.807, if the former spouse is awarded a portion of the employee annuity sufficient to pay the cost associated with providing the survivor annuity, the former spouse's share maybe reduced to pay the cost.
¶ 801 Costs to be paid from the employee annuity.
No special provision on payment of the costs associated with providing the former spouse survivor annuity is necessary if the court intends the cost to be taken from the employee annuity.
¶ 802 Costs to be paid from former spouse's share of the employee annuity.
Using the following paragraph will award the former spouse a prorata share of the employee annuity and a prorata share of the maximum possible survivor annuity and provide that the cost associated with the survivor annuity be deducted from the former spouse's share of the employee annuity. Prorata share and self-only annuity are used as examples only; another amount or type of annuity may be substituted.
“[Employee] is (or will be) eligible for retirement benefits under the Civil Service Retirement System based on employment with the United States Government. [Former spouse] is entitled to a prorata share of [employee]'s self-only monthly annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System. [Former spouse]'s share of [employee]'s employee annuity will be reduced by the amount of the costs associated with providing the former spouse survivor annuity awarded in the next paragraph. The marriage began on [insert date]. The United States Office of Personnel Management is directed to pay [former spouse]'s share directly to [former spouse].”
“Under section 8341(h)(1) of title 5, United States Code, [former spouse] is awarded a former spouse survivor annuity under the
Civil Service Retirement System. The amount of the former spouse survivor annuity will be equal to a prorata share.

# 900 Series—Refunds of employee contributions.
Court orders that award a former spouse survivor annuity based on the service of an employee who is not then eligible to retire should include an additional paragraph containing instructions that tell OPM what to do if the employee requests a refund of employee contributions before becoming eligible to retire. The court order may award the former spouse a portion of the refund of employee contributions or bar payment of the refund of employee contributions.
¶ 901 Barring payment of a refund of employee contributions.
Using the following paragraph will bar payment of the refund of employee contributions if payment of the refund of employee contributions would extinguish the former spouse's entitlement to a former spouse survivor annuity. “The United States Office of Personnel Management is directed not to pay [employee] a refund of employee contributions.”
¶ 902 Dividing a refund of employee contributions.
Using the following paragraph will allow the refund of employee contributions to be paid but will award a prorata share of the refund of employee contributions to the former spouse. The award of a prorata share is used only an example; the court order could provide another fraction, percentage, or formula, or a fixed amount. A refund of employee contributions voids the employee's rights to an employee annuity unless the employee is reemployed under the retirement system. Payment of the refund of employee contributions will also extinguish the former spouse's right to a court-ordered portion of an employee annuity or a former spouse survivor annuity unless the employee is reemployed and reestablishes title to annuity benefits.
“If [employee] becomes eligible and applies for a refund of employee contributions, [former spouse] is entitled to a prorata share of the refund of employee contributions. The marriage began on [insert date]. The United States Office of Personnel Management is directed to pay [former spouse]'s share directly to [former spouse.]”

# Subpart J—Court Orders Affecting Civil Service Retirement Benefits

# Source:
50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992.
§ 838.1001
[Reserved]
§ 838.1002
Relation to other regulations.
(a) Part 581 of this chapter contains information about garnishment of Government payments including salaries and civil service retirement benefits.
(b) Parts 294 and 297 of this chapter and § 831.106 of this chapter contain information about disclosure of information from OPM records.
(c) Subpart F of part 831 of this chapter, subpart F of part 842 of this chapter, and subpart C of part 843 of this chapter contain information about entitlement to survivor annuities.
(d) Subpart T of part 831 of this chapter and subpart B of part 843 of this chapter contain information about entitlement to lump-sum death benefits.
(e) Parts 870, 871, 872, and 873 of this chapter contain information about coverage under the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Program.
(f) Part 890 of this chapter contains information about coverage under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
(g) Section 831.109 of this chapter contains information about the administrative review rights available to a person who has been adversely affected by an OPM action under this subpart.
[50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, 33598, July 29, 1992]
§ 838.1003
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Associate Director
means the Associate Director for Retirement and Insurance in the OPM or an OPM official authorized to act on his or her behalf.
Court order
means any judgment or property settlement issued by or approved by any court of any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands, and any Indian court in connection with, or incident to, the divorce, annulment of marriage, or legal separation of a Federal employee or retiree.
CSRS
means subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
Employee retirement benefits
means employees' and Members' annuities and refunds of retirement contributions but
does not include survivor annuities or lump-sum payments made pursuant to section 8342 (c) through (f) of title 5, United States Code.
Former spouse
means (1) in connection with a court order affecting employee retirement benefits, a living person whose marriage to an employee, Member, or retiree has been subject to a divorce, annulment, or legal separation resulting in a court order; or (2) in connection with a court order awarding a former spouse annuity, a living person who was married for at least 9 months to an employee, Member, or retiree who performed at least 18 months of creditable service in a position covered by CSRS and whose marriage to the employee was terminated prior to the death of the employee, Member, or retiree.
Former spouse annuity
means a former spouse annuity as defined in § 831.603 of this chapter.
Gross annuity
means the amount of a self-only annuity less only applicable survivor reduction, but before any other deduction.
Member
means a Member of Congress.
Net annuity
means the amount of annuity payable after deducting from the gross annuity any amounts that are (1) owed by the retiree to the United States, (2) deducted for health benefits premiums pursuant to section 8906 of title 5, United States Code, and §§ 891.401 and 891.402 of this title, (3) deducted for life insurance premiums pursuant to section 8714a(d) of title 5, United States Code, (4) deducted for Medicare premiums, or (5) properly withheld for Federal income tax purposes, if amounts withheld are not greater than they would be if the individual claimed all dependents to which he or she was entitled.
Qualifying court order
means a court order that meets the requirements of § 838.1004.
Retiree
means a former employee or Member who is receiving recurring payments under CSRS based on service by the employee or Member.
Retiree,
as used in the subpart, does not include a current spouse, former spouse, child or person with an insurable interest.
Self-only annuity
means the recurring payment to a retiree who has elected not to provide a survivor annuity to anyone.
[50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 9103, Mar. 12, 1990; 56 FR 45884, Sept. 9, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992]
§ 838.1004
Qualifying court orders.
(a) A former spouse is entitled to a portion of an employee's retirement benefits only to the extent that the division of retirement benefits is expressly provided for by the court order. The court order must divide employee retirement benefits, award a payment from employee retirement benefits, or award a former spouse annuity.
(b) The court order must state the former spouse's share as a fixed amount, a percentage or a fraction of the annuity, or by a formula that does not contain any variables whose value is not readily ascertainable from the face of the order or normal OPM files.
(c)(1) For purposes of payments from employee retirement benefits, OPM will review court orders as a whole to determine whether the language of the order shows an intent by the court that the former spouse should receive a portion of the employee's retirement benefits directly from the United States.
(i) Orders that direct or imply that OPM is to make payment of a portion of employee retirement benefits, or are neutral about the source of payment, will be honored unless the retiree can demonstrate that the order is invalid in accordance with § 838.1009.
(ii) Orders that specifically direct the retiree to pay a portion of employee retirement benefits to a former spouse (and do not contain language to show the court intends payment from the Civil Service Retirement System) will be honored unless the retiree objects to direct payment by OPM within the 30-day notice period prescribed in § 838.1008, but will not be honored even if the retiree raises only a general objection to payment by OPM within that 30-day notice period.
(2) For purposes of awarding a former spouse annuity, the court order must either state the former spouse's entitlement to a survivor annuity or direct an employee, Member, or retiree to provide a former spouse annuity.
(d) For purposes of affecting or awarding a former spouse annuity, a court order is not a qualifying court order whenever—
(1) The marriage was terminated before May 7, 1985; or
(2)(i) The marriage was terminated on or after May 7, 1985; and
(ii) The employee or Member retired under CSRS before May 7, 1985; and
(iii)(A) The employee or Member had elected not to provide a current spouse annuity for that spouse at the time of retirement; or,
(B) In the case of a post-retirement marriage, the annuitant had not elected to provide a survivor annuity for that spouse before May 7, 1985.
(e)(1) For purposes of awarding, increasing, reducing, or eliminating a former spouse survivor annuity, or explaining, interpreting, or clarifying a court order that awards, increases, reduces or eliminates a former spouse annuity, the court order must be—
(i) Issued on a day prior to the date of retirement or date of death of the employee; or
(ii) The first order dividing the marital property of the retiree and the former spouse.
(2) In paragraph (e)(1) of this section, “date of retirement” means the later of—
(i) The date that the employee files an application for retirement; or
(ii) The effective commencing date for the employee's annuity.
(3) In paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(4) of this section “issued” means actually filed with the clerk of the court, and does not mean the effective date of a retroactive court order that is effective prior to the date when actually filed with the clerk of the court (e.g., a court order issued nunc pro tunc).
(4)(i) In paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, the “first order dividing the marital property of the retiree and the former spouse” means—
(A) The original written order that first ends (or first documents an oral order ending) the marriage if the court divides any marital property (or approves a property settlement agreement that divides any marital property) in that order, or in any order issued before that order; or
(B) The original written order issued after the marriage has been terminated in which the court first divides any marital property (or first approves a property settlement agreement that divides any marital property) if no marital property has been divided prior to the issuance of that order.
(ii) The first order dividing marital property does not include—
(A) Any court order that amends, explains, clarifies, or interprets the original written order regardless of the effective date of the court order making the amendment, explanation, clarification, or interpretation; or
(B) Any court order issued under reserved jurisdiction or any other court orders issued subsequent to the original written order that divide any marital property regardless of the effective date of the court order.
[50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 31936, Sept. 8, 1986; 52 FR 3210, Feb. 3, 1987; 53 FR 48896, Dec. 5, 1988; 53 FR 49638, Dec. 8, 1988. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992]
§ 838.1005
Applications by former spouse.
(a) A former spouse (personally or through a representative) must apply in writing to be eligible for benefits under this subpart. No special form is required.
(b) The application letter must be accompanied by—
(1) A certified copy of the court order granting benefits under CSRS; and
(2) A statement that the court order has not been amended, superseded, or set aside; and
(3) Identifying information concerning the employee, Member, or retiree such as his or her full name, claim number, date of birth, and social security number, if available; and
(4) The mailing address of the former spouse.
(c) When payments are subject to termination upon remarriage, no payment shall be made until the former spouse submits to the Associate Director a statement on the form prescribed by OPM certifying—
(1) That a remarriage has not occurred; and
(2) That the former spouse will notify the Associate Director within 15 calendar days of the occurrence of any remarriage; and
(3) That the former spouse will be personally liable for any overpayment to him or her resulting from a remarriage. The Associate Director may subsequently require recertification of these statements.
§ 838.1006
Amounts payable.
(a) Money held by an executive agency or OPM that may be payable at some future date is not available for payment under court orders unless all of the conditions necessary for payment of the money to the former employee or Member have been met, including, but not limited to—
(1) Separation from a covered position in the Federal service; and
(2) Application for payment of the money by the former employee or Member; and
(3) The former employee's or Member's immediate entitlement to payment of the money subject to the order.
(b) Waivers of employee or Member annuity payments under the terms of section 8345(d) of title 5, United States Code, exclude the waived portion of the annuity from availability for payment under a court order if such waivers are postmarked before the expiration of the 30-day notice period provided by § 838.1008.
(c) Payment under a court order may not exceed—
(1) In cases involving employee or Member annuities, the net annuity.
(2) In cases involving lump-sum payments (refunds), the amount of the lump-sum credit.
(3) In cases involving former spouse annuities, the amount provided in § 831.641 of this chapter.
(d) In cases in which court orders award former spouse annuities—
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, former spouse annuities based on qualifying court orders will commence and terminate in accordance with the court order.
(2) A court order will not be honored to the extent it would require an annuity to commence prior to the day after the employee, Member, or retiree dies, or the first day of the second month beginning after the date on which OPM receives written notice of the court order together with the additional information required by § 838.1005. Further, a court order will not be honored to the extent it requires an annuity to be terminated contrary to section 8341(h)(3)(B) of title 5, United States Code.
(3) A court order will not be honored to the extent is is inconsistent with any joint designation or waiver previously executed under § 831.614 of this chapter with respect to the former spouse involved.
[50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 31936, Sept. 8, 1986. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992; 58 FR 52882, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 838.1007
Preliminary review.
(a)(1) Upon receipt of a court order and documentation required by § 838.1005 affecting the future civil service retirement benefits of an employee or Member who is living and has not applied for benefits under CSRS, the Associate Director will notify the former spouse that OPM has received the court order and documentation. The court order and documentation will be filed for further review when the employee or Member dies or funds become available under § 838.1006.
(2) When OPM has received a court order and documentation required by § 838.1005 affecting an employee or Member who retires, dies, or applies for a lump-sum benefit, the Associate Director will determine whether the court order is a qualifying court order under § 838.1004.
(3) Upon receipt of a court order and necessary documentation required by § 838.1005 affecting employee retirement benefits that are available under § 838.1006 or awarding a former spouse annuity to a former spouse of an employee who retired under CSRS or died, the Associate Director will determine whether the court order is a qualifying court order under § 838.1004.
(b) Upon preliminary determination that the court order is qualifying, the Associate Director will give the notifications required by § 838.1008.
(c) Upon preliminary determination that the court order is not qualifying,
the former spouse will be notified of the basis for the determination and the right to reconsideration under § 831.109 of this chapter.
[50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992]
§ 838.1008
Notifications.
(a) In a case in which the court order affects employee retirement benefits:
(1) The Associate Director will notify the employee, Member, or retiree that a court order has been received that appears to require that a portion of his or her retirement benefits be paid to a former spouse and provide the employee, Member, or retiree with a copy of the court order. The notice will inform the former employee or Member—
(i) That OPM intends to honor the court order; and
(ii) Of the effect that the court order will have on the former employee or Member's retirement benefits; and
(iii) That no payments will be made to the former spouse for a period of 30 days from the notice date to enable the former employee or Member to contest the court order.
(2) The Associate Director will notify the former spouse—
(i) That OPM intends to honor the court order; and
(ii) Of the amount that the former spouse is entitled to receive under the court order, and in cases that award a portion of the benefits on a percentage basis or by a formula, how the amount was computed; and
(iii) That payment is being delayed for a period of 30 days to give the former employee or Member an opportunity to contest the court order.
(b) In a case in which the court order awards a former spouse annuity—
(1) The Associate Director will notify the retiree, if living, or, if the employee, Member, or retiree is dead, his or her surviving spouse, or the person entitled to the lump-sum death benefit under section 8342 of title 5, United States Code, if possible, that a court order has been received that requires the payment of a former spouse annuity. The notice will include a copy of the court order. The notice will state—
(i) That OPM intends to honor the court order; and
(ii) The effect it will have on the potential retirement benefit of the person receiving the notice; and
(iii) That any objection to honoring the court order must be filed within 30 days from the notice date.
(2) The former spouse will be notified—
(i) That OPM intends to honor the court order; and
(ii) Of the amount of survivor annuity that he or she will be entitled to receive and how the amount was computed; and
(iii) That anyone adversely affected has a period of 30 days in which to contest the court order.
(c) In a case in which the court order affects employee retirement benefits and awards a former spouse annuity all of the notices under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will be provided.
§ 838.1009
Decisions.
(a)(1) When the individual does not respond within the 30-day notice period provided for by § 838.1008, the court order will be honored in accordance with the notification.
(2) When a timely response to the notification is received, the Associate Director will consider the response. The former spouse's claim will be denied and the former spouse will be notified of the right to request reconsideration under § 831.109 of this chapter whenever is is shown that—
(i) The court order is not a qualifying court order; or
(ii) The court order is inconsistent with a contemporaneous or subsequent court order.
(b) If any person who may lose benefits if OPM honors the court order objects to payment based on the validity of the court order and the record contains reasonable support for the objection, he or she will be granted 30 days to initiate legal action to determine the validity of the objection. If funds are available under § 838.1006 and evidence is submitted that legal action had been started before the 30 days have expired, money will continue to be withheld, but no payment will be
made to the former spouse pending judicial determination of the validity of the court order.
[50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992]
§ 838.1010
Court orders or decrees preventing payment of lump sums.
(a) Payment of the lump-sum credit to a former employee or Member will be subject to the terms of any court order or decree issued with respect to any former spouse or to any current spouse from whom the employee or Member was legally separated, if—
(1) The court order or decree expressly relates to any portion of the lump-sum credit involved; and
(2) Payment of the lump-sum credit would extinguish entitlement of the current or former spouse to a survivor annuity under section 8341(h) of title 5, United States Code, or to any portion of an annuity under section 8345(j) of title 5, United States Code.
(b) For paragraph (a) of this section to have effect, OPM must be in receipt of the court order or decree before authorizing payment of the refund.
(c)(1) In the event that OPM receives two or more court orders or decrees—
(i) When there are two former spouses, the court orders or decrees will be honored in the order in which they were issued until the lump-sum has been exhausted.
(ii) When there are two or more court orders or decrees relating to the same former spouse, the one issued last will be honored first.
(2) In no event will the amount paid out exceed the amount of the lump-sum credit.
(d) OPM is not liable for any payment made from money due from or payable by OPM to any individual pursuant to a court order or decree regular on its face, if such payment is made in accordance with this subpart.
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, a court order or decree directed at a refund of retirement contributions is not effective unless the court order or decree and supporting documentation required by § 838.1005 are received by OPM not later than—
(1) The last day of the second month before payment of the refund; or
(2) Twenty days after OPM receives the Statement required by § 831.2007(c) of this chapter if the former spouse has indicated on that Statement that such an order exists.
(f) The interests of a former spouse with a court order or decree who does not receive notice of a refund application because the former employee or Member submits fraudulent proof of notification or fraudulent proof that the former spouse's whereabouts are unknown are protected if, and only if—
(1) The former spouse files the court order or decree with OPM no later than the last day of the second month before the payment of the refund; or
(2) The former spouse submits proof that—
(i) The evidence submitted by the employee was fraudulent; and
(ii) Absent the fraud, the former spouse would have been able to submit the necessary documentation required by § 838.1005 within the time limit prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) Court orders, notices, summons, or other documents that attempt to restrain OPM from paying refunds of retirement contributions are not effective unless they meet all the requirements of—
(1) Paragraph (a) of this section, including the requirement that the court order or decree, or a prior court order or decree, has awarded the former spouse a former spouse annuity as defined in § 831.603 of this chapter or a portion of the employee's or Member's future annuity benefit; or
(2) Part 581 of this chapter.
[50 FR 20081, May 13, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 31937, Sept. 8, 1986; 55 FR 9106, Mar. 12, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992]
§ 838.1011
Effective dates.
(a)(1) The provisions of this subpart apply to any employee retirement benefits regardless of the date of issuance of the court order or the date when the employee or Member retires.
(2) The Associate Director will not increase the amount apportioned from current retirement benefits to satisfy an arrearage due the former spouse unless the court order states the amount of the arrearage and directs that it be paid from the employee retirement
benefit. However, the Associate Director will honor the terms of a new or revised court order that either increases or decreases the former spouse's entitlement. These changes will be prospective only.
(3) Benefits payable to a former spouse from a retiree's annuity begin to accrue no earlier than the beginning of the month after receipt of a qualifying court order and the documentation required by § 838.1005, and terminate no later than the last day of the month before the death of the retiree.
(b)(1) The provisions of this subpart concerning former spouse annuities apply only with respect to a former spouse of an employee, Member, or retiree who retires or dies while employed in a position covered by CSRS on or after May 7, 1985, or a former spouse whose marriage to an employee, Member, or retiree is terminated on or after May 7, 1985, regardless of the date the employee separates from a position covered by CSRS.
(2) The survivor annuity for a former spouse commences and terminates in accordance with the court order. However, a court order will not be honored to the extent it would require an annuity to commence before—
(i) The day after the employee, Member, or retiree dies; or
(ii) The first day of the second month beginning after OPM receives the court order, together with such additional information required by § 838.1005, whichever is later. Further, a court order will not be honored to the extent it requires an annuity to be terminated contrary to section 8341(h)(3)(B) of title 5, United States Code.
[50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 31936, Sept. 8, 1986. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992]
§ 838.1012
Death of the former spouse.
(a) Unless the qualifying court order expressly provides otherwise, the former spouse's share of employee retirement benefits terminates on the last day of the month before the death of the former spouse, and the former spouse's share of employee retirement benefits reverts to the retiree.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, OPM will honor a qualifying court order or an amended qualifying court order that directs OPM to pay, after the death of the former spouse, the former spouse's share of the employee annuity to—
(1) The court;
(2) An officer of the court acting as a fiduciary;
(3) The estate of the former spouse; or
(4) One or more of the retiree's children as defined in section 8342(c) or section 8424(d) of title 5, United States Code.
[57 FR 33597, July 29, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993]
§ 838.1013
Limitations.
(a) Employee retirement benefits are subject to apportionment by court order only while the former employee or Member is living. Payment of apportioned amounts will be made only to the former spouse and/or the children of the former employee or Member. Payment will not be made to any of the following:
(1) The heirs or legatees of the former spouse; or
(2) The creditors of the former employee or Member, or the former spouse; or
(3) Other assignees of the former employee or Member, or the former spouse.
(b) The amount of payment under this subpart will not be less than one dollar and, in the absence of compelling circumstances, will be in whole dollars.
(c) In honoring and complying with a court order, the Associate Director will not disrupt the scheduled method of accruing retirement benefits or the normal timing for making such payment, despite the existence of a special schedule of accrual or payment of amounts due the former spouse.
(d) Payments from employee retirement benefits under this subpart will be discontinued whenever the retiree's annuity payments are suspended or terminated. If annuity payments to the retiree are restored, payment to the former spouse will also resume.
(e) Since the former spouse is entitled to payments from employee retirement benefits only while the former employee or Member is living, the former spouse is personally liable for
any payments from employee retirement benefits received after the death of the retiree.
§ 838.1014
Guidelines on interpreting court orders.
As circumstances require, OPM will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of the guidelines it uses in interpreting court orders. Upon publication of the notice in the
Federal Register
of such guidelines, they will become an appendix to this subpart.
§ 838.1015
Liability.
OPM is not liable for any payment made from employee retirement benefits pursuant to a court order if such payment is made in accordance with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 838.1016
Receipt of multiple court orders.
In the event that OPM receives two or more qualifying court orders—
(a) When there are two or more former spouses, the court orders will be honored in the order in which they were issued to the maximum extent possible under §§ 831.641 of this chapter and 838.1006.
(b) Where there are two or more court orders relating to the same former spouse, the one issued last will be honored.
[50 FR 20077, May 13, 1985. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992; 58 FR 52882, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 838.1017
Cost-of-living adjustments.
In cases where the court order apportions a percentage of the employee retirement benefit, the Associate Director will initially determine the amount of proper payment. That amount will be increased by future cost-of-living increases unless the court directs otherwise.
§ 838.1018
Settlements.
The former spouse may request that an amount be withheld from the retirement benefits that is less than the amount stipulated in the court order. This lower amount will be deemed a complete fulfillment of the obligation of OPM for the period in which the request is in effect.
Pt. 838, Subpt. J, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart J of Part 838—Guidelines for Interpreting State Court Orders Dividing Civil Service Retirement Benefits

# United States of America

# Office of Personnel Management

# Retirement and Insurance Group

# Guidelines for Interpreting State Court Orders Dividing Civil Service Retirement Benefits
These guidelines explain the interpretation that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) will place on terms and phrases frequently used in dividing benefits. These guidelines are intended not only for the use of OPM, but also for the legal community as a whole, with the hope that by informing attorneys, in advance, about the manner in which OPM will interpret terms written into court orders, the resulting orders will be more carefully drafted, using the proper language to accomplish the aims of the court.
A substantial number of State court orders are drafted under the mistaken belief that the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
) applies to CSRS benefits. Sections 1003(b)(1) and 1051 of title 29, United States Code, exempt CSRS from ERISA, because CSRS is a “governmental plan” as defined in section 1001(23) of title 29, United States Code. Accordingly, OPM does not honor ERISA Qualifying Domestic Relations Orders (QDRO's) except to the extent that the law governing CSRS expressly authorizes compliance with State court orders. OPM will honor the orders to the extent permitted by CSRS. However, many provisions of ERISA QDRO's are not authorized under CSRS. Most significantly, a court cannot require that payments to the former spouse begin before the employee actually retires (i.e., begins to receive benefits) and, unless the order expressly provides that the former spouse is entitled to a survivor annuity, the payments to the former spouse cannot continue after the employee dies.

# I. Computations generally
A. Adjustments affecting court-awarded benefits.
1. Orders that award adjustments to a former spouse stated in terms such as “cost-of-living adjustments” or “COLAs” occurring after the date of the decree but before the date of retirement will be interpreted to award increases equal to the adjustments described in or effected under section 8340 of title 5, United States Code.
2. Orders that award adjustments to a former spouse stated in terms such as “salary adjustments” or “pay adjustments” occurring after the date of the decree will be
interpreted to award increases equal to the adjustments described in or effected under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code until the date of retirement.
3. Unless otherwise specified in the order, adjustments described in section 8340 of title 5, United States Code will be applied after the date of retirement.
B. Application of COLAs.
1. Unless the court directly and unequivocally orders otherwise, decrees that divide annuities either on a percentage basis or by use of a formula will be interpreted to entitle the former spouse to salary adjustments occurring after the date of the decree and cost-of-living adjustments occurring after the date of the decree or occurring after the date of the employee's retirement, whichever comes later.
2. On the other hand, decrees that award a former spouse a specific dollar amount from the annuity will be interpreted as excluding salary and cost-of-living adjustments after the date of the decree, unless the court expressly orders their inclusion.
3. Orders that contain a general instruction to calculate the former spouse's share effective at the time of divorce or separation will not be interpreted to prevent the inclusion of salary adjustments occurring after the specified date. To prevent the application of salary adjustments after the date of the divorce or separation, the decree must either state the exact dollar amount of the award to the former spouse or specifically state that salary adjustments after the specified date are to be disregarded in computing the former spouse's share.
4. Orders that require OPM to compute a benefit as of a specified date, and specifically state that salary adjustments after the specified date are to be disregarded in computing the former spouse's share will not be interpreted to prevent the application of COLAs
after
the date of the Federal employee's retirement. To award COLAs between the specified date and the Federal employee's retirement, the order must specifically state that the former spouse will receive the benefit of any COLAs occurring between the specified date and the date of the Federal employee's retirement. To prevent the application of COLAs after the retirement date, the decree must either state the exact dollar amount of the award to the former spouse or specifically state that the former spouse will not receive the benefit of COLAs occurring after the date of the Federal employee's retirement.
C. Present value.
1. Orders that award a portion of the “present value” of an annuity will not be honored unless the amount of the “present value” is stated in the order. (See 5 CFR 838.1004(b).)
2. Orders that award a portion of the “present value” of an annuity stated in the order will be interpreted as awarding “a specific dollar amount.” Unless the court specifically states otherwise, such an award payable from a monthly annuity benefit will be paid in equal installments at 50 percent of the monthly annuity rate at the time of retirement or the date of the order, whichever comes later, until the specific dollar amount is reached.
3. Orders that award a portion of the “value” of an annuity as of a specific date before retirement, without specifying what “value” is, will be interpreted as awarding a portion of the annuity equal to the monthly annuity rate at the time of retirement times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of “creditable service” or service worked as of the date specified and the denominator of which is the total number of months as of the time of retirement of “creditable service” or service worked, whichever term is used in the court order. (See III. C. of these Guidelines.)
4. Orders that contain general language awarding a specified portion of a Federal employee's “retirement benefits” as of a specified date before retirement, but do not specify whether OPM should use “creditable service” or “service worked” as of the date specified to complete the computation, will be interpreted to award a portion of the annuity equal to the monthly annuity rate at the time of retirement times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of service worked as of the date specified and the denominator of which is the number of months of “creditable service” as of the time of retirement.
D. Annuity as of a date before retirement.
Orders that award a portion of an employee's annuity as of a specified date
before
the employee's retirement will be interpreted as awarding a portion of the annuity equal to the monthly annuity rate at the time of retirement times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of “creditable service” or service worked as of the date specified and the denominator of which is the number of months of “creditable service” or service worked used in the retirement computation.
E. Formulas or percentage instructions.
Orders that contain both a formula or percentage instruction and a dollar amount will be interpreted as including the dollar amount only as the court's estimate of the initial amount of payment. The formula or percentage instruction will control.
F. Computation limited to a particular period of employment.
In order to limit the computation of benefits to a particular period of employment, the court order must use language expressly limiting the period of service to be included in the computation. General language such as “benefits accrued as a result of employment with the U.S. Postal Service * * *” will be interpreted to mean only that CSRS retirement benefits are subject to division (see V.A. of appendix A to subpart J of
part 838). Such language will not be interpreted to limit the period of service included in the computation (i.e., service performed with other Government agencies will be included). To limit the period of service, the court order should specify the number of months to be included in the computation or should describe specifically the period of service to be included in the computation (e.g., “only U.S. Postal Service” or “exclusive of any service other than U.S. Postal Service employment” or “only service performed during the period Petitioner and Defendant were married” or “benefits based on service performed through the date of divorce,” etc.).
G. Amounts less than $12 per year.
Orders awarding a former spouse less than $12 per year are qualifying court orders. Such orders will be interpreted as an award of $1 per month.

# II. Types of annuity
A. Gross annuity will be interpreted as the amount of the annuity payable after any applicable survivor reduction but before any other deduction.
B. 1. To divide an annuity before any applicable survivor reduction, the decree must contain language to the effect that the division is to be made on the self-only annuity, the life-rate annuity, or the annuity unreduced for survivor benefit, or equivalent language. A division of “gross annuity” will not accomplish this purpose.
2. To divide an annuity before the social security offset under section 8349 of title 5, United States Code, the order must expressly state that the division is to occur before the social security offset. The term “unreduced annuity” will mean annuity after the social security offset.
C. Net annuity or disposable annuity will be interpreted to mean net annuity as defined in § 838.1003.
D. Orders that fail to state the type of annuity that they are dividing will be interpreted as dividing gross annuity (defined above).
E. Orders dividing a “retirement check” will be interpreted as dividing net annuity (as defined in § 838.1003).

# III. Calculating time
A. The smallest unit of time that will be used in computing a formula in a decree is a month.
1. This policy is based on section 8332 of title 5, United States Code, that allows credit for service for years or twelfth parts thereof. Requests to calculate smaller units of time will not be honored.
2. Time calculations by the Office of Personnel Management will be no more precise than years and twelfth parts, even where the court order directs OPM to make a more precise calculation. However, if the court order states a formula using a specified simple or decimal fraction other than twelfth parts, OPM will use the specified number to perform simple mathematical computations. For example, the share of a former spouse awarded a portion of the annuity equal to
1/2
of the fraction whose numerator is 12.863 years and whose denominator is the total service on which the annuity is based would be computed by taking
1/2
of the quotient obtained by dividing 12.863 by the total service measured
in years and twelfth parts.
B. The term “military service” will generally be interpreted to include only periods of service within the definition of military service contained in section 8331(13) of title 5, United States Code, i.e., active duty military service. Civilian service with military organizations will not be included as “military service,” except where the exclusion of such civilian service would be manifestly contrary to the intent of the court order.
C. 1. Unused sick leave is counted as “creditable service” on the date of separation for immediate retirement; it is not apportioned over the time when earned.
2. When an order contains a formula for dividing annuity that requires a computation of service worked as of a date prior to separation and using terms such as “years of service,” “total service,” or similar terms, the time attributable to unused sick leave will not be included.
3. When an order contains a formula for dividing annuity that requires a computation of “creditable service” (or some other phrase using “credit” or its equivalent) as of a date prior to retirement, unused sick leave will be included in the computation as follows—
(i) If the amount of unused sick leave is specified, the order will be interpreted to award a portion of the annuity equal to the monthly annuity at retirement times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of “creditable service” as of the date specified plus the number of months of unused sick leave specified and whose denominator is the months of “creditable service” used in the retirement computation.
(ii) If the amount of unused sick leave is not specified, the order will be interpreted to award a portion of the annuity equal to the monthly rate at the time of retirement times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of “creditable service” as of the date specified (no sick leave included) and whose denominator is the number of months of “creditable service” used in the retirement computation.

# IV. Distinguishing Between Divisions of Annuity and Refunds of Contributions
A. Orders that are unclear about whether they are dividing an annuity or a refund of contributions will be interpreted as dividing an annuity.
B. Orders using “annuities,” “pensions,” “retirement benefits,” or similar terms will be interpreted as dividing an annuity and whatever other employee benefits become payable, such as refunds. Orders using “contributions,” “deductions,” “deposits,” “retirement accounts,” “retirement fund,” or similar terms will be interpreted as dividing the amount of contributions the employee has paid into the Civil Service Retirement Fund. Unless the court order specifically states otherwise, when an annuity is payable, such orders will be paid in equal monthly installments at 50 percent of the monthly annuity at the time of retirement or the date of the order, whichever comes later, until the specific dollar amount is reached.

# V. Identifying Benefits Affected
A. Orders that do not specify what pension or retirement benefits are to be divided will not be interpreted as dividing CSRS benefits. Terms such as “CSRS,” “United States,” “OPM,” “Federal Government” benefits, “Postal Service retirement benefits,” “retirement benefits payable based on service with the U.S. Department of Agriculture,” or similar terms will be considered sufficient to identify civil service retirement benefits for division.
B. Except as provided below, orders directed at other retirement systems will not be interpreted as affecting CSRS benefits.
1. Orders that mistakenly label CSRS benefits as Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) benefits, will be interpreted as dividing CSRS benefits and
vice versa.
2. Unless the order expressly provides otherwise, for employees transferring to FERS, orders directed at CSRS benefits will be interpreted as applying to the entire FERS basic benefit, including the CSRS component, if any.
C. Orders directed at other Federal retirement systems such as military retired pay, Foreign Service retirement benefits and Central Intelligence Agency retirement benefits will not be interpreted as dividing CSRS benefits.
D. Orders dividing military retired pay, even when military retired pay has been waived for inclusion in CSRS annuities, will not be interpreted as dividing CSRS benefits. (Such orders cannot be qualifying orders under section 838.1004(b), because the amount cannot be computed from the face of the order or from normal OPM files.)

# VI. State Law not Specified in Court Orders
A. 1. Except as provided in Guideline VI.A.2., OPM will not research, interpret, or apply State law regarding community or marital property rights or divisions.
2. OPM will not divide disability retirement benefits when such a division would be contrary to State law unless the order expressly directs division of “disability” benefits.
B. Orders that do not specify the “community property” fraction or percentage of the former spouse's share will not be considered qualifying because the amount of the benefit cannot be computed from the face of the order or from normal OPM files (5 CFR 838.1004(b)).
[55 FR 9103, Mar. 12, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992]
Pt. 838, Subpt. J, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart J of Part 838—Guidelines for Interpreting State Court Orders Awarding Survivor Annuity Benefits to Former Spouses

# United States of America

# Office of Personnel Management

# Retirement and Insurance Group

# Guidelines for Interpreting State Court Orders Awarding Survivor Annuity Benefits to Former Spouses
These guidelines explain the interpretation that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) will place on terms and phrases frequently used in awarding survivor benefits. These guidelines are intended not only for the use of OPM, but also for the legal community as a whole, with the hope that by informing attorneys, in advance, about the manner in which OPM will interpret terms written into court orders, the resulting orders will be more carefully drafted, using the proper language to accomplish the aims of the court.

# I. Insurable Interest Annuities
Two types of potential survivor annuities may be provided by retiring employees to cover former spouses. Section 8341(h) of title 5, United States Code, provides for “former spouse annuities.” Section 8339(k) of title 5, United States Code, provides for “insurable interest annuities.” These are distinct benefits, each with its own advantages.
A. OPM will enforce State court orders to provide section 8341(h) annuities. These annuities are less expensive and have fewer restrictions than insurable interest annuities but the former spouse's interest will automatically terminate upon remarriage before age 55. To provide a section 8341(h) annuity, the order must use terms such as “former spouse annuity,” “section 8341(h) annuity,” or “survivor annuity.”
B. OPM will not enforce State court orders to provide “insurable interest annuities” under section 8339(k). These annuities may
only be elected at the time of retirement by a retiring employee who is not retiring under the disability provision of the law and who is in good health. The retiree may also elect to cancel the insurable interest annuity to provide a survivor annuity for a spouse acquired after retirement. The parties might seek to provide this type of annuity interest if the non-employee spouse expects to remarry before age 55, if the employee expects to remarry a younger second spouse before retirement, or if another former spouse has already been awarded a section 8341(h) annuity. However, the State court will have to provide its own remedy if the employee is not eligible for or does not make the election. OPM will not enforce the order. Language including the words “insurable interest” or referring to section 8339(k) will be interpreted as providing for this type of survivor benefit.
C. In orders which contain internal contradictions about the type of annuity, such as “insurable interest annuity under section 8341(h),” the section reference will control.

# II. Orders Directed at Other Retirement Systems
A. Except as provided in paragraphs A1 and A2, orders directed at other retirement systems will not be interpreted as affecting Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) benefits.
1. Orders that mistakenly label CSRS benefits as Federal Employee's Retirement System (FERS) benefits, will be interpreted as affecting CSRS benefits and
vice versa.
2. Unless the order expressly provides otherwise, for employees transferring to FERS, orders directed at CSRS benefits will be interpreted as applying to the entire FERS basic benefit, including the CSRS component, if any.
B. Orders directed at other Federal retirement systems such as military retired pay, Foreign Service retirement benefits and Central Intelligence Agency retirement benefits will not be interpreted as awarding a former spouse annuity under CSRS. Thus, orders should contain language identifying the retirement system from which survivor benefits are being awarded. For example, orders should contain terms such as “CSRS,” “OPM,” “Federal Government employee survivor benefits,” or “survivor benefits payable based on service with the U. S. Department of Agriculture,” etc.
C. Orders affecting military retired pay, even when military retired pay has been waived for inclusion in CSRS annuities, will not be interpreted as awarding a former spouse annuity under CSRS.

# III. Specificity Required To Award a Former Spouse Annuity.
A. Orders must contain language identifying the benefits affected. For example, “CSRS,” “OPM,” or “Federal Government” survivor benefits, or “survivor benefits payable based on service with the U.S. Department of Agriculture,” etc., will be considered sufficient identification.
B. 1. Except as provided paragraphs B2 through B4, orders must specify the benefit being awarded. Orders must contain language such as “survivor annuity,” “death benefits,” “former spouse annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h)(1),” etc.
2. Orders that provide that the former spouse is to “continue as” or “be named as” the “designated beneficiary” of CSRS benefits will be interpreted to award a former spouse annuity.
3. Orders that provide that the former spouse will “continue to receive benefits after the death of” the employee or “that benefits will continue after the death of” the employee, but do not use terms such as “survivor annuity,” “death benefits,” “former spouse annuity,” or similar terms will not be interpreted to award a former spouse annuity.
4. Orders that give the former spouse the right to elect a former spouse annuity will be interpreted to award a former spouse annuity. The former spouse does not have an election opportunity. OPM will not accept an election by the former spouse to eliminate the court-awarded former spouse annuity.
C. 1. Orders that unequivocally award survivor annuity and direct the former spouse to pay for that benefit are qualifying court orders. If the former spouse has also been awarded a portion of the retiree's benefits then the cost of the survivor benefit will be deducted from the former spouse's portion of the annuity (if sufficient to cover the total cost—there will be no partial withholding). Otherwise, the reduction will be taken from the retiree's annuity and collection from the former spouse will be a private matter between the parties.
2. Orders that condition the award of survivor annuity on the former spouse's payment of the cost of the benefit are qualifying only if there is also an award of retirement benefits sufficient to cover the cost. Absent a sufficient award of employee retirement benefits to pay the cost of survivor benefits, the order is not qualifying.
D. Orders providing that former spouses will keep the survivor annuity to which they were entitled at the time of the divorce will be interpreted to award a former spouse annuity in the same amount as they had at the time of divorce.
E. Orders that fail to state the amount of the former spouse annuity will be interpreted as providing the maximum former spouse annuity.
F. Orders awarding a former spouse annuity of less than $12 per year are qualifying court orders. Such orders will be interpreted to provide an initial rate of $1 per month plus all cost-of-living increases occurring after the date of the order. The reduction in the retiree's annuity will be computed as though the order provided a former spouse annuity of $1 per month.
G. Orders that provide
full
survivor annuity benefits to a former spouse with the contingency that the employee or annuitant may elect a
lesser
benefit for the former spouse upon his or her remarriage will be interpreted to provide only a full survivor annuity benefit to the former spouse. In order to provide full survivor annuity benefits to a former spouse with the contingency that the employee or annuitant may provide a lesser survivor annuity benefit to the former spouse in order to provide survivor annuity benefits for a subsequent spouse, the order should allow a reduction in the former spouse benefit contingent upon the employee's or annuitant's
election
of survivor annuity benefits for a subsequent spouse. A reduction in the amount of survivor benefits provided to the former spouse will not be permitted if it is contingent upon the employee's or annuitant's
remarriage
rather than his or her
election
of survivor annuity benefits for a subsequent spouse. (See 5 CFR 838.1004(b).)
[55 FR 9105, Mar. 12, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 33596, July 29, 1992]

# Subpart K—Court Orders Under the Child Abuse Accountability Act

# Source:
59 FR 66637, Dec. 28, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Regulatory Structure
§ 838.1101
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart regulates the procedures that the Office of Personnel Management will follow upon the receipt of claims arising out of child abuse judgment enforcement orders.
(b) This subpart prescribes—
(1) The circumstances that must occur before employee annuities or refunds of employee contributions are available to satisfy a child abuse judgment enforcement order; and
(2) The procedures that a child abuse creditor must follow when applying for a portion of an employee annuity or refund of employee contributions based on a child abuse judgment enforcement order.

# Availability of Funds
§ 838.1111
Amounts subject to child abuse judgment enforcement orders.
(a)(1) Employee annuities, other than phased retirement annuities, and refunds of employee contributions are subject to child abuse enforcement orders only if all of the conditions necessary for payment of the employee annuity or refund of employee contributions to the former employee have been met, including, but not limited to—
(i) Separation from the Federal service;
(ii) Application for payment of the employee annuity or refund of employee contributions by the former employee; and
(iii) Immediate entitlement to an employee annuity or refund of employee contributions.
(2) Money held by an employing agency or OPM that may be payable at some future date is not available for payment under child abuse judgment enforcement orders.
(3) OPM cannot pay a child abuse creditor a portion of an employee annuity before the employee annuity begins to accrue.
(b)(1) Phased retirement annuities are subject to child abuse enforcement orders only if all of the conditions necessary for payment of the phased retirement annuity to the phased retiree have been met, including, but not limited to—
(i) Entry of the employee into phased retirement status under subpart Q of part 831 of this chapter or part 848 of this chapter, respectively;
(ii) Application for payment of the phased retirement annuity by the phased retiree; and
(iii) The phased retiree's immediate entitlement to a phased retirement annuity.
(2) Money held by an employing agency or OPM that may be payable at some future date is not available for payment under child abuse judgment enforcement orders.
(3) OPM cannot pay a child abuse creditor a portion of a phased retirement annuity before the employee annuity begins to accrue.
(c) Waivers of employee annuity payments under the terms of section 8345(d) or section 8465(a) of title 5, United States Code, exclude the waived portion of the annuity from availability for payment under a child abuse judgment enforcement order if such waivers are postmarked or received before the date that OPM receives the child abuse judgment enforcement order.
[59 FR 66637, Dec. 28, 1994, as amended at 79 FR 46631, Aug. 8, 2014]

# Application, Processing, and Payment Procedures and Documentation Requirements
§ 838.1121
Procedures and requirements.
(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this part, the procedures and requirements applicable to legal process under part 581 of this chapter apply to OPM's administration of child abuse judgment enforcement orders.
(b)(1) OPM will accept for processing any legal process under part 581 of this chapter that appears valid on its face.
(2)(i) After OPM has determined that a child abuse judgment enforcement order is valid on its face, OPM will not entertain any complaint concerning the validity of the order. Such complaints must be presented to authorities having jurisdiction to review the validity of the legal process.
(ii) OPM will not delay compliance with a child abuse judgment enforcement order based on any complaint concerning the validity of the order unless instructed to do so by an appropriate authority under the law of the jurisdiction issuing the legal process, the office of the United States Attorney for the jurisdiction issuing the legal process, or the U.S. Department of Justice.
(c)(1) The address for service of a child abuse judgment enforcement order is provided in appendix A to subpart A of this part.
(2)(i) OPM considers service of legal process by mailing or delivery of the child abuse judgment enforcement order to the designated address appropriate service notwithstanding more formal requirements imposed on creditors under State law.
(ii) OPM will execute forms required under a State procedure to waive any right to more formal procedures for service of legal process than specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
Pt. 839

# PART 839—CORRECTION OF RETIREMENT COVERAGE ERRORS UNDER THE FEDERAL ERRONEOUS RETIREMENT COVERAGE CORRECTIONS ACT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
839.101
What is the Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act?
839.102
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Eligibility

# General Provisions
839.201
Do these rules apply to me?

# Election Opportunity
839.211
If these rules apply to me because I had a qualifying retirement coverage error, can I choose which retirement plan I want to be in?
839.212
May I make a retirement coverage election if I received a refund of my retirement deductions after I was corrected to FERS?
839.213
May I make a retirement coverage election if I withdrew all or part of my TSP account after I was corrected to FERS?
839.214
Am I disqualified from making an election of retirement coverage under the FERCCA if I withdrew my TSP account after I retired under FERS?
839.215
May I make a retirement coverage election under the FERCCA if I received a payment as settlement of my claim for losses because of a qualifying retirement coverage error?

# Previous Election Opportunity
839.221
If my qualifying retirement coverage error was that I was put into FERS by mistake and then, after the error was discovered, I chose my current retirement coverage, can I now make another election?

# Court-Ordered Benefits for Former Spouses
839.231
Can I make an election if my former spouse is entitled to a portion of my retirement benefits by qualifying court order?
839.232
If a deceased employee's survivors include both a current spouse and a former spouse, or spouses who are eligible for survivor annuities, must all of them consent to an election of FERS?

# Elections
839.241
Am I eligible to make an election under the FERCCA if I had a qualifying retirement coverage error and none of the conditions mentioned in 839.212 through 839.232 apply to me?
839.242
Do these rules apply to me if I had multiple errors?

# Subpart C—Employer Responsibility to Notify Employees
839.301
What should I do if I am not sure whether I am or was in the wrong retirement plan?
839.302
Will my employer give me a written explanation?
839.303
Is my employer required to find employees with a retirement coverage error?
839.304
What if my employer does not notify me?

# Subpart D—Retirement Coverage Elections for Errors That Were Not Previously Corrected

# Erroneous CSRS or CSRS Offset
839.401
What can I elect if I was put in CSRS or CSRS Offset by mistake?

# Erroneous FERS
839.411
What can I elect if I was put in FERS by mistake?

# Subpart E—Retirement Coverage Elections for Errors That Were Previously Corrected

# Moved Out of CSRS or CSRS Offset
839.501
What can I elect if my employer moved me out of CSRS or CSRS Offset?

# Moved Out of FERS
839.511
What can I elect under the FERCCA if my employer put me into FERS by mistake and then I was not allowed to remain in FERS when the error was discovered?

# Subpart F—Making an Election

# General Provisions
839.601
How do I make an election?
839.602
What if I don't make an election?
839.603
Can I later change my election?
839.604
When is my election effective?

# Time Limits
839.611
What are the time limits for making an election?
839.612
Can I make a belated election?

# FERS Elections
839.621
Can I cancel my FERS election if I was in the wrong retirement plan at the time I elected FERS coverage and I have an election opportunity under the FERCCA?
839.622
Can I cancel my FERS election if my qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected and I now have an election opportunity under the FERCCA?
839.623
If I decide to keep the FERS election in effect, may I change the effective date of the FERS election?

# Subpart G—Errors That Don't Permit an Election
839.701
Is it correct that even though I had a qualifying retirement coverage error under the FERCCA, I may not have a choice of retirement coverage?
839.702
How do these rules apply to me if I don't have an election right under the FERCCA, but I did have a qualifying retirement coverage error?

# Subpart H—Adjusting Retirement Deductions and Contributions

# Employee Retirement Deductions
839.801
Do I owe more money if I had a qualifying retirement coverage error and the employee retirement deductions for the new retirement plan are more than what I already paid?
839.802
If I was in CSRS during my qualifying retirement coverage error, paid in more than I would have paid as a CSRS Offset, Social Security-Only, or FERS employee and end up retroactively in one of those retirement plans, will I get a refund of the excess I had withheld from my pay?
839.803
If I am like the person in the previous question, but the amount I paid as deductions under CSRS is more than the amount of combined retirement deductions and Social Security taxes due for my new retirement coverage, will I get a refund of the excess?
839.804
If my qualifying retirement coverage error occurred while I was a reemployed annuitant, and I am later corrected retroactively to a different retirement plan, will I have to pay any additional amount for retirement deductions?

# Employer Retirement Contributions
839.811
Does my employer owe more money if I had a qualifying retirement coverage error and the employer retirement contributions for my new retirement plan are more than what was already paid?
839.812
Will my employer get a refund if I had a qualifying retirement coverage error and the employer retirement contributions for my new retirement plan are less than what was already paid?

# Records Correction
839.821
Who is responsible for correcting my records?
839.822
Which employer is responsible for submitting the employee and employer retirement deductions and contributions and correcting my records if I had different employers?

# Subpart I—Social Security Taxes
839.901
When will my employer begin withholding Social Security taxes if I was erroneously in CSRS during my qualifying retirement coverage error and my corrected coverage will now require me to pay Social Security taxes?
839.902
Will my CSRS retirement deductions be used to pay the Social Security taxes for the period of the qualifying retirement coverage error if I was erroneously placed in CSRS and did not pay Social Security taxes?
839.903
What happens to the Social Security taxes I erroneously paid when my employer corrects my retirement coverage to CSRS?

# Subpart J—Lost Earnings for Certain Make-up Contributions to the TSP
839.1001
Does the FERCCA allow me to increase my TSP account if I was in CSRS during my qualifying retirement coverage error and my correct coverage will be FERS?
839.1002
Will OPM compute the lost earnings if my qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected and I made TSP make-up contributions?
839.1003
How will OPM compute the amount of lost earnings?
839.1004
Are lost earnings payable if I separated or if the employee died?

# Subpart K—Effect of Election

# General Provisions
839.1101
How are my retirement benefits computed if I elect CSRS or CSRS Offset under this part?
839.1102
How are my retirement benefits computed if I elect FERS under this part?
839.1103
If my qualifying retirement coverage error started when I should have been placed under FERS automatically, but my agency put me in CSRS because I had some past service, will I get a CSRS component in my FERS annuity for the service before the error if I elect FERS?

# Retirees and Survivors
839.1111
If I elect to change my retirement coverage under the FERCCA, can I change the election I originally made at retirement for survivor benefits?
839.1112
If I elect to change my retirement coverage under the FERCCA, can I retroactively revoke the waiver of military retired pay I made at retirement?
839.1113
If I elect to change my retirement coverage under the FERCCA, can I change my decision about making a deposit or redeposit for civilian or military service?
839.1114
Will OPM actuarially reduce my benefit if I elect to change my retirement coverage under these rules?
839.1115
What is an actuarial reduction?
839.1116
If, because of the change in my retirement coverage, I will owe larger deposits for military and civilian service credit, will I have to pay the additional deposit due or will OPM actuarially reduce my annuity?
839.1117
If I elect to change my retirement coverage under the FERCCA, can I get a refund of the service credit deposit I made and receive the actuarial reduction instead?
839.1118
Will my annuity be actuarially reduced because I had Government contributions in my TSP account?
839.1119
How is the actuarial reduction for TSP computed?

# Survivor Benefits
839.1121
What is the Actuarial Reduction for the Basic Employee Death Benefit (BEDB)?
839.1122
Does receipt of a one-time payment of retirement contributions as a death benefit prevent me from electing CSRS Offset?

# Subpart L—Discretionary Actions by OPM
839.1201
If I took legal action against my employer because of a qualifying retirement coverage error, can OPM reimburse me for expenses related to my legal actions?
839.1202
Can OPM waive repayment of a monetary award I received as resolution of the harm caused me by a qualifying retirement coverage error?
839.1203
Can OPM compensate me for my losses if I did not take any legal action against my employer, but did incur some
expenses because of a qualifying retirement coverage error?
839.1204
On what basis will OPM review claims under this subpart?
839.1205
Does the Director of OPM review the claims?
839.1206
How do I submit a claim under this subpart?

# Subpart M—Appeal Rights
839.1301
What if my employer determines my error is not subject to these rules?
839.1302
What types of decisions can I appeal?
839.1303
Are there any types of decisions that I cannot appeal?
839.1304
Is there anything else I can do if I am not satisfied with the way my error was corrected?

# Authority:
Title II, Pub. L. 106-265, 114 Stat. 770.

# Source:
66 FR 15609, Mar. 19, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 839.101
What is the Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act?
(a) The Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act (FERCCA) is Title II of Public Law 106-265, enacted September 19, 2000. The FERCCA addresses the problems created when employees are in the wrong retirement plan for an extended period.
(b) Generally, you must be in the wrong retirement plan for at least 3 years of service after December 31, 1986, before the FERCCA applies to you. Depending on the type of error, the FERCCA provides:
(1) A choice between retirement plans,
(2) New rules for crediting civilian and military service that was not subject to retirement deductions,
(3) Payment of lost earnings on employee make-up contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan, and
(4) Payment of certain out-of-pocket expenses that are a direct result of a retirement coverage error.
§ 839.102
Definitions.
Agency
means an executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code; a legislative branch agency; a judicial branch agency; and the U.S. Postal Service and Postal Rate Commission.
Agency automatic (1%) contributions
means contributions made to a FERS participant's Thrift Savings Plan account by his or her employing agency under 5 U.S.C. 8432(c)(1) or (c)(3).
Agency matching contributions
means contributions made to a FERS participant's Thrift Savings Plan account by his or her employing agency under 5 U.S.C. 8432(c)(2).
Annuitant
means the same as
Retiree.
Basic Employee Death Benefit or BEDB
means the FERS survivor benefit payable as a lump sum or over 36 months, described in § 843.309 of this chapter.
Board
means the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board established under 5 U.S.C. 8472.
CSRS
means the Civil Service Retirement System, as described in subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
CSRS component
means the part of a FERS retirement benefit that is computed under CSRS provisions (see § 846.304 of this chapter).
CSRS Offset
means the Civil Service Retirement System Offset plan, which is for employees whose service is subject to CSRS deductions and Social Security taxes, as described in 5 U.S.C. 8349.
Employee
means an employee or Member individual as defined in section 8331(1) and (2) or 8401(11) and (20) of title 5, United States Code. Employee includes an individual who has applied for retirement benefits, but not separated from service.
Employee retirement deductions
means the amount that is deducted from basic pay under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, for CSRS employees; or section 8334(k) of title 5, United States Code, for CSRS Offset employees; or the portion of the normal cost of FERS coverage that is deducted from an employee's basic pay under section 8422(a) of title 5, United States Code.
Employer
means, with respect to an employee, that individual's employing agency.
Employer retirement contributions
means the employer share of retirement contributions that are required payments to the Fund under sections
8334(a) and 8423(a) of title 5, United States Code.
Former spouse
means a living person who was married to you for at least 9 months.
FERCCA
means the Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act.
FERS
means the Federal Employees' Retirement System, as described in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Fund
means the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund described in section 8348 of title 5, United States Code.
Government contributions
means agency automatic (1%) contributions and agency matching contributions.
Lost earnings
means earnings that you would have received had your make-up contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund been made during the period of the error when they should have otherwise been made.
Make-up contributions
means employee contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan that should have been deducted from a participant's basic pay earlier, but were not due to an employing agency error.
MSPB
means the Merit Systems Protection Board described in chapter 12 of title 5, United States Code.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Present value factor
has the same meaning in this subpart as defined in § 831.603.
Previously corrected
means a retirement coverage error that has been properly corrected before March 19, 2001.
Qualifying court order
has the same meaning as in § 846.702 of this chapter, referring to court orders that affect CSRS or FERS payments following a divorce or legal separation.
Qualifying retirement coverage error
means an erroneous decision by an employee or agent of the Government as to whether Government service is CSRS covered, CSRS Offset covered, FERS covered, or Social Security-Only covered that remained in effect for at least 3 years of service after December 31, 1986.
Reemployed annuitant
means a CSRS or FERS retiree who is reemployed under conditions that do not terminate the CSRS or FERS annuity. (See part 837 of this chapter for additional information on reemployed annuitants.)
Retiree
means a former employee or Member who is receiving, or meets the statutory age and service requirements for, an annuity under either CSRS or FERS. This includes individuals who meet the statutory requirements for benefits and chose to postpone the beginning date of the annuity under § 842.204(c) or § 842.212(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter (pertaining to FERS MRA+10 and FERS deferred benefits). Retiree does not include a current spouse, former spouse, child, or person with an insurable interest receiving a survivor annuity. An individual who has left Federal service after completing 5 years of service but has not reached the age at which annuity payments may begin is considered a “separated employee” rather than a retiree.
Retirement coverage
means participation in CSRS, CSRS Offset, FERS, or Social Security-Only. Retirement coverage is shown on the Notification of Personnel Action (Standard Form 50) or other similar record of personnel actions.
Retirement plan
means the same as
retirement coverage.
Separated employee
means a former employee or Member who has separated from service and who has not met all the requirements for retirement under CSRS or FERS.
Social Security coverage
means service as a Federal employee that is employment under section 210 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 410) and is subject to Social Security taxes.
Social Security-Only
means coverage under Social Security without concurrent coverage under CSRS, CSRS Offset, or FERS.
Social Security taxes
means the Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance taxes imposed on employees under section 3101(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (31 U.S.C. 3101(a)) and on employers under section 3111(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (31 U.S.C. 3111(a)).
Survivor
means a person entitled to benefits under chapter 83 or 84 of title 5, United States Code, based on the
service of a deceased employee, separated employee, or retiree.
Thrift Savings Plan or TSP
means the Federal Retirement Thrift Savings Plan established by the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-335, 100 Stat. 514, which has been codified, as amended, primarily at 5 U.S.C. 8351 and 8401-8479.
[66 FR 15609, Mar. 19, 2001, as amended at 82 FR 49280, Oct. 25, 2017]

# Subpart B—Eligibility

# General Provisions
§ 839.201
Do these rules apply to me?
(a) These rules apply to employees who had a qualifying retirement coverage error. For all purposes, a qualifying retirement coverage error must have lasted for at least 3 years of Federal service after December 31, 1986, as stated in the definitions section (§ 839.102). It does not matter whether you have left Federal service, retired, or have been reemployed as an annuitant, as long as you had a qualifying retirement coverage error. In addition, the survivor of an employee, separated employee, or retiree who had a qualifying retirement coverage error is also covered by these rules.
(b) An error that lasted less than 3 years of Federal service after December 31, 1986, is not qualifying under the rules in this part.
(c) For errors lasting less than 3 years that involve erroneous placement in FERS during a period that the employee was eligible to elect FERS, see § 846.204(b) of this chapter for guidance.

# Election Opportunity
§ 839.211
If these rules apply to me because I had a qualifying retirement coverage error, can I choose which retirement plan I want to be in?
The FERCCA does not provide an election opportunity in all situations where there was a qualifying retirement coverage error. Even if your error is one that provides an election opportunity under the FERCCA, certain events may disqualify you from making an election under the FERCCA. If you had a qualifying retirement coverage error, your eligibility to choose your retirement plan may be affected by the situations described in the next seven questions.
§ 839.212
May I make a retirement coverage election if I received a refund of my retirement deductions after I was corrected to FERS?
If your qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected to FERS and you then received a refund of your FERS retirement deductions, you are not allowed to elect retirement plan coverage under the FERCCA.
§ 839.213
May I make a retirement coverage election if I withdrew all or part of my TSP account after I was corrected to FERS?
(a) You may not make a retirement coverage election if your qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected to FERS, and you later received one of the following TSP withdrawals:
(1) A TSP annuity after separation from service, but before receiving a FERS annuity; or
(2) A single payment or monthly payments after separation from service; or
(3) An age-based in-service withdrawal.
(b) If you received an automatic cashout of your TSP account after you separated (because your account balance was $3,500 or less), or if you received a financial hardship in-service withdrawal, you may make a retirement coverage election.
§ 839.214
Am I disqualified from making an election of retirement coverage under the FERCCA if I withdrew my TSP account after I retired under FERS?
No, you may make an election of retirement coverage under the FERCCA if you made a TSP withdrawal as a retiree.
§ 839.215
May I make a retirement coverage election under the FERCCA if I received a payment as settlement of my claim for losses because of a qualifying retirement coverage error?
You can make a retirement coverage election under the FERCCA if OPM waives repayment of the entire amount under § 839.1202. If OPM does not waive
the entire repayment, you must pay back the amount that OPM did not waive.

# Previous Election Opportunity
§ 839.221
If my qualifying retirement coverage error was that I was put into FERS by mistake and then, after the error was discovered, I chose my current retirement coverage, can I now make another election?
No, OPM regulations allow certain employees who were put in FERS in error to choose between remaining in FERS or being covered under their automatic retirement coverage. (See § 846.204(b)(2) of this chapter). If you already had this opportunity to choose your retirement coverage; then you may not make an election of retirement coverage based on the same error under these rules.

# Court-Ordered Benefits for Former Spouses
§ 839.231
Can I make an election if my former spouse is entitled to a portion of my retirement benefits by qualifying court order?
Yes, but if you want to elect FERS you need your former spouse's consent to the election. If you are subject to a qualifying court order and want to elect FERS, the requirements in § 846.722 of this chapter (Former Spouse's Consent to an Election of FERS Coverage) apply to you.
§ 839.232
If a deceased employee's survivors include both a current spouse and a former spouse, or spouses, who are eligible for survivor annuities, must all of them consent to an election of FERS?
If the employee dies before making an election of retirement coverage under the FERCCA, all eligible potential survivors, that is, both the current and any former spouses, must consent to an election of FERS coverage. If they do not all consent, the election cannot be made.

# Elections
§ 839.241
Am I eligible to make an election under the FERCCA if I had a qualifying retirement coverage error and none of the conditions mentioned in § 839.212 through § 839.232 apply to me?
If you were in CSRS or CSRS Offset and should have been in FERS or Social Security-Only, or if you were in FERS and should have been in CSRS, CSRS Offset, or Social Security-Only, then you have an election opportunity. This is summarized in the following chart:
You are or were in:
And you belong in:
CSRS or CSRS Offset
FERS.
CSRS or CSRS Offset
Social Security-Only.
FERS
Social Security-Only.
FERS
CSRS.
FERS
CSRS Offset.
§ 839.242
Do these rules apply to me if I had multiple errors?
You must be in the wrong retirement plan for at least 3 years of Federal service after December 31, 1986. You need not be in the same wrong retirement plan during the entire 3-year period. If you had more than one type of erroneous retirement coverage, then you will have a retirement plan election under these rules if one of the errors is of a type that qualifies you for an election.

# Subpart C—Employer Responsibility to Notify Employees
§ 839.301
What should I do if I am not sure whether I am or was in the wrong retirement plan?
(a) If you are an employee, your employer has your personnel records and will review them to determine whether an error has been made. Therefore, you should notify your employer's human resources office if you believe an error has been made in your case. Notify your current employer even if you believe the error occurred while you were employed at another agency.
(b) If you are not currently employed by the Federal Government, you should notify OPM at: U.S. Office of Personnel Management, Retirement Operations Center, Post Office Box 45, Boyers,
Pennsylvania 16017. You can also contact us by electronic mail at
FERCCA@OPM.GOV.
Notify OPM regardless of whether you are a retiree, survivor, or separated employee.
(c) You may also get additional information about the FERCCA and whether or not you qualify at:
www.opm.gov/benefits/correction.
§ 839.302
Will my employer give me a written explanation?
(a) Your employer must provide you with written notice of the error. The notice must include an explanation of the error, your options regarding the error, and any time limits that apply.
(b) Your employer must inform you if they find that you do not have a retirement coverage error.
§ 839.303
Is my employer required to find employees with a retirement coverage error?
The FERCCA requires your employer to take reasonable and appropriate measures to identify individuals affected by a qualifying retirement coverage error and notify them of their rights under the law.
§ 839.304
What if my employer does not notify me?
(a) If your error has not previously been corrected, the 6-month time limit on making an election of retirement coverage under the FERCCA (see § 839.611(a)) does not begin to run until you are notified of the error.
(b) If your error was previously corrected, the 18-month time limit on making an election of retirement coverage ends on September 19, 2002. Employers and OPM may extend the time limit if you were prevented from making a timely election due to a cause beyond your control (see § 839.612).

# Subpart D—Retirement Coverage Elections for Errors That Were Not Previously Corrected

# Erroneous CSRS or CSRS Offset
§ 839.401
What can I elect if I was put in CSRS or CSRS Offset by mistake?
If you were placed in CSRS or CSRS Offset due to a qualifying retirement coverage error and you should have been in FERS, you may elect CSRS Offset or FERS. If you were placed in CSRS or CSRS Offset due to a qualifying retirement coverage error and you should have been in Social Security-Only, you may elect CSRS Offset or Social Security-Only. This is summarized in the following chart:
You are in:
And you belong in:
You may elect:
CSRS
FERS
CSRS Offset or FERS.
CSRS Offset
FERS
CSRS
Social Security-Only
CSRS Offset or Social Security-Only.
CSRS Offset
Social Security-Only

# Erroneous FERS
§ 839.411
What can I elect if I was put in FERS by mistake?
If you were placed in FERS due to a qualifying retirement coverage error and you should have been in CSRS, you may elect FERS or CSRS. If you were placed in FERS due to a qualifying retirement coverage error and you should have been in CSRS Offset, you may elect FERS or CSRS Offset. If you were placed in FERS due to a qualifying retirement coverage error and you should have been in Social Security-Only, you may elect FERS or Social Security-Only. This is summarized in the following chart:
You are in:
And you belong in:
You may elect:
FERS
CSRS
FERS or CSRS.
FERS
CSRS Offset
FERS or CSRS Offset.
FERS
Social Security-Only
FERS or Social Security-Only.

# Subpart E—Retirement Coverage Elections for Errors That Were Previously Corrected

# Moved Out of CSRS or CSRS Offset
§ 839.501
What can I elect if my employer moved me out of CSRS or CSRS Offset?
If you were moved out of CSRS or CSRS Offset due to a qualifying retirement coverage error and were placed in FERS, you may elect CSRS Offset or remain in FERS. If you were moved out of CSRS or CSRS Offset due to a qualifying retirement coverage error and were placed in Social Security-
Only, you may elect CSRS Offset or remain in Social Security-Only. This is summarized in the following chart:
You were in:
And your coverage was previously
corrected to:
You may elect:
CSRS
FERS
CSRS Offset or FERS.
CSRS Offset
FERS
CSRS
Social Security-Only
CSRS Offset or Social Security-Only.
CSRS Offset
Social Security-Only.

# Moved Out of FERS
§ 839.511
What can I elect under the FERCCA if my employer put me into FERS by mistake and then I was not allowed to remain in FERS when the error was discovered?
An employee who was erroneously placed in FERS during a time when the employee should have had an opportunity to elect FERS is allowed to keep the erroneous FERS coverage. If the employee was given an opportunity to remain in FERS, then the employee is disqualified from making an election of retirement coverage under the FERCCA (see § 839.221). If you were not allowed to remain in FERS and were placed in CSRS due to a qualifying retirement coverage error, you may elect FERS or remain in CSRS. If you were not allowed to remain in FERS and were placed in CSRS Offset due to a qualifying retirement coverage error, you may elect FERS or remain in CSRS Offset. If you were not allowed to remain in FERS and were placed in Social Security-Only due to a qualifying retirement coverage error, you may elect FERS or remain in Social Security-Only. This is summarized in the following chart:
You were in:
And your coverage was previously
corrected to:
You may elect:
FERS
CSRS
CSRS or FERS.
FERS
CSRS Offset
CSRS Offset or FERS.
FERS
Social Security-Only
Social Security-Only or FERS.

# Subpart F—Making an Election

# General Provisions
§ 839.601
How do I make an election?
You may make your election using the form issued by OPM. If you are an employee, your employer will provide you with this form. If you are not a current employee, OPM will provide the form.
§ 839.602
What if I don't make an election?
(a) If your qualifying retirement coverage error was not previously corrected and you fail to make an election within the time limit under § 839.611(a), your retirement coverage is summarized in the following chart:
If you are in:
And you belong in:
You are
considered to have elected:
CSRS or CSRS Offset
FERS
CSRS Offset.
FERS
CSRS, CSRS Offset or Social Security-Only
FERS.
CSRS or CSRS Offset
Social Security-Only
CSRS Offset.
(b) If your qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected and you fail to make an election within the time limit under § 839.611(b), you are considered to have elected to remain in your current retirement plan.
§ 839.603
Can I later change my election?
Your election is irrevocable once your employer or OPM processes it. If you do not make a timely election, the resulting coverage (see § 839.602) is also irrevocable.
§ 839.604
When is my election effective?
Your election is effective on the date that the retirement coverage error first occurred. This means that your election will be retroactive, or will change your retirement coverage for a period of service in the past.

# Time Limits
§ 839.611
What are the time limits for making an election?
(a) If your qualifying retirement coverage error was not previously corrected, you have 6 months from the date you receive notice of the error under § 839.302 to make an election.
(b) If your qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected, the time limit for making an election expires on September 19, 2002.
§ 839.612
Can I make a belated election?
(a) If you are an employee, your employer can waive the time limit for making an election if you request such a waiver in writing. The employer would have to determine that you exercised due diligence, but could not make an election within the time limit because of circumstances beyond your control.
(b) Your employer's decision not to waive the time limit under this section must be in writing and include notice of your right to request OPM to reconsider the decision.
(c) OPM can waive the time limit for separated employees, retirees, and survivors who exercised due diligence but could not make an election because of circumstances beyond their control if a request is submitted to OPM, and OPM concludes that a waiver is justified.

# FERS Elections
§ 839.621
Can I cancel my FERS election if I was in the wrong retirement plan at the time I elected FERS coverage and I have an election opportunity under the FERCCA?
If you were erroneously in CSRS, CSRS Offset, or Social Security-Only at the time you elected FERS and you have an election opportunity under the FERCCA, you can choose whether you want the FERS election to remain in effect. However, you may not choose whether you want your FERS election to remain in effect if you chose FERS after your employer notified you that you were put in FERS by mistake (see § 839.221).
§ 839.622
Can I cancel my FERS election if my qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected and I now have an election opportunity under the FERCCA?
Yes, your FERS coverage election does not disqualify you from making a retirement coverage election under the FERCCA. You can choose whether you want the FERS election to remain in effect. However, you may not choose whether you want your FERS election to remain in effect if you chose FERS after your employer notified you that you were put in FERS by mistake (see § 839.221).
§ 839.623
If I decide to keep the FERS election in effect, may I change the effective date of the FERS election?
No, If you decide to keep FERS, the original FERS election will remain unchanged.

# Subpart G—Errors That Don't Permit an Election
§ 839.701
Is it correct that even though I had a qualifying retirement coverage error under the FERCCA, I may not have a choice of retirement coverage?
Under the FERCCA, the types of retirement coverage errors listed in § 839.241 trigger a right to make a retirement coverage election. The following chart summarizes the types of errors that do not trigger an election right:
You are in:
And you
belong in:
Your
coverage must be
corrected to:
CSRS Offset
CSRS
CSRS.
CSRS
CSRS Offset
CSRS Offset.
Social Security-Only
CSRS
CSRS.
Social Security-Only
CSRS Offset
CSRS Offset.
Social Security-Only
FERS
FERS.
§ 839.702
How do these rules apply to me if I don't have an election right under the FERCCA, but I did have a qualifying retirement coverage error?
After your retirement coverage is corrected to the proper plan, your retirement deductions will be adjusted in accordance with subpart H of this part and your Social Security taxes will be adjusted in accordance with subpart I of this part, if applicable. You may also file a claim for losses in accordance with subpart L of this part.

# Subpart H—Adjusting Retirement Deductions and Contributions

# Employee Retirement Deductions
§ 839.801
Do I owe more money if I had a qualifying retirement coverage error and the employee retirement deductions for the new retirement plan are more than what I already paid?
(a) No, your employer is responsible for paying any additional amount to the Fund. Your employer will not bill you for any additional retirement deductions.
(b) For qualifying retirement coverage errors corrected under this part, the rules at § 831.111(b) of this chapter (pertaining to employee options when the employer fails to withhold CSRS or CSRS Offset retirement deductions) do not apply.
§ 839.802
If I was in CSRS during my qualifying retirement coverage error, paid into the Fund more than I would have paid as a CSRS Offset, Social Security-Only, or FERS employee, and end up retroactively in one of those retirement plans, will I get a refund of the excess I had withheld from my pay?
CSRS Offset and FERS require employees to pay Social Security taxes in addition to retirement deductions. When you are retroactively changed under the FERCCA to CSRS Offset, FERS, or Social Security-Only, the deductions you paid in under CSRS will be used to pay both the amounts required for retirement deductions under CSRS Offset or FERS, as applicable to you, and also the Social Security taxes that you would have paid had you been in CSRS-Offset, FERS, or Social Security-Only.
§ 839.803
If I am like the person in the previous question, but the amount I paid as deductions under CSRS is more than the amount of combined retirement deductions and Social Security taxes due for my new retirement coverage, will I get a refund of the excess?
Yes, either OPM or your employer, as appropriate, will issue the payment in accordance with OPM instructions.
§ 839.804
If my qualifying retirement coverage error occurred while I was a reemployed annuitant, and I am later corrected retroactively to a different retirement plan, will I have to pay any additional amount for retirement deductions?
(a) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously in CSRS and had retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to CSRS Offset or FERS coverage, the amount erroneously withheld under CSRS will be used to pay the retroactive CSRS Offset or FERS retirement deductions and Social Security taxes.
(b) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously placed in CSRS and elected not to have retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to CSRS Offset or FERS, your share of retroactive Social Security taxes will be treated as an overpayment of salary. If you are corrected to CSRS Offset, you may elect to have retirement deductions withheld from future salary as a reemployed annuitant and may also make a deposit to cover the retirement deductions for past service as a reemployed annuitant in accordance with § 837.503(c) of this chapter. If you are corrected to FERS, your retirement deductions under FERS will be treated as an overpayment of salary.
(c) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously in CSRS Offset and had retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to CSRS or FERS coverage, the amount erroneously withheld under CSRS Offset will be used to pay the retroactive CSRS or FERS retirement deductions. The employer is responsible for paying to the Fund any additional retirement deductions.
(d) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously placed in CSRS Offset and elected not to have retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to CSRS, you may elect to have retirement deductions withheld from future salary as a reemployed annuitant and may also make a deposit to cover the retirement deductions for past service as a reemployed annuitant in accordance with
§ 837.503(c) of this chapter. Your retirement deductions under CSRS will be treated as an overpayment of salary.
(e) If you (as a reemployed annuitant) were erroneously placed in CSRS Offset and elected not to have retirement deductions withheld from pay, and later are corrected to FERS, your retirement deductions under FERS will be treated as an overpayment of salary.
(f) A reemployed annuitant erroneously placed in FERS and later corrected to CSRS or CSRS Offset is considered to have elected retirement deductions as a reemployed annuitant under the corrected coverage. The employer is responsible for paying to the Fund any additional retirement deductions under the corrected retirement coverage.
(g) If you have a salary overpayment, your employer will inform you of your rights regarding the overpayment.
(h) These rules are summarized in the following chart:
Wrong coverage is:
And retirement deductions were
And you are
corrected to
Then
(1) CSRS
Taken
CSRS Offset or FERS
• The erroneous CSRS deductions are used to pay the retroactive CSRS Offset or FERS deductions and Social Security taxes.
• Retirement deductions will continue to be withheld from salary.
• Social Security taxes must be withheld from salary.
(2) CSRS
Not taken
CSRS Offset
• Retroactive Social Security taxes are treated as an overpayment of salary.
• You may elect to have retirement deductions withheld from future salary.
• Social Security taxes must be withheld from salary.
• You may pay a deposit to OPM for past retirement deductions.
(3) CSRS
Not taken
FERS
• Retroactive Social Security taxes are treated as an overpayment of salary.
• Retirement deductions and Social Security taxes must be withheld from salary.
• Your retirement deductions for past service under FERS are treated as an overpayment of salary.
(4) CSRS Offset
Taken
CSRS or FERS
• The erroneous CSRS Offset deductions are used to pay retroactive CSRS or FERS retirement deductions.
• Retirement deductions will continue to be withheld from salary.
• Social Security taxes must be withheld from salary if correct coverage is FERS.
• Employer must pay any additional amount of retirement deductions.
(5) CSRS Offset
Not taken
CSRS
• You may elect to have retirement deductions withheld from future salary.
• You may pay a deposit to OPM for past retirement deductions.
(6) CSRS Offset
Not taken
FERS
• Your retirement deductions for past service under FERS will be treated as an overpayment of salary.
(7) FERS
Taken
CSRS or CSRS Offset
• You are considered to have elected retirement deductions as a reemployed annuitant under the corrected coverage.
• Employer must pay any additional retirement deductions due for past service.

# Employer Retirement Contributions
§ 839.811
Does my employer owe more money if I had a qualifying retirement coverage error and the employer retirement contributions for my new retirement plan are more than what was already paid?
Yes, your employer must pay any additional retirement contributions to the Fund.
§ 839.812
Will my employer get a refund if I had a qualifying retirement coverage error and the employer retirement contributions for my new retirement plan are less than what was already paid?
No, if you were erroneously in CSRS, CSRS Offset, or Social Security-Only, then a correction of a retirement coverage error will not reduce the employer retirement contribution owed. Also, the FERCCA states that an employer may not remove from the Fund FERS employer contributions when
correcting a qualifying retirement coverage error under this part.

# Records Correction
§ 839.821
Who is responsible for correcting my records?
(a) Your current employer will correct your records in accordance with OPM instructions. Your employer must not delay correcting your records.
(b) For former employees and retirees, the last employer will correct the records. For survivors, the employee's last employer will correct the records. If an employer no longer exists as an organization, and there is no successor agency, then OPM will correct the records.
§ 839.822
Which employer is responsible for submitting the employee and employer retirement deductions and contributions and correcting my records if I had different employers?
Your current or most recent employer will be responsible for this purpose. Even if that employer was not involved in the retirement coverage error, it must issue corrected records for the entire period of the retirement coverage error.

# Subpart I—Social Security Taxes
§ 839.901
When will my employer begin withholding Social Security taxes if I was erroneously in CSRS during my qualifying retirement coverage error and my corrected coverage will now require me to pay Social Security taxes?
(a) If you are in CSRS by mistake and belong in CSRS Offset, FERS, or Social Security-Only, your employer must begin withholding Social Security taxes by changing your retirement coverage to CSRS Offset. Your employer must begin this withholding as soon as possible after the error is discovered.
(b) Your employer will correct your retirement coverage back to the date the error first occurred once you are notified of the error and have an opportunity to make any elections that you are eligible to make.
§ 839.902
Will my CSRS retirement deductions be used to pay the Social Security taxes for the period of the qualifying retirement coverage error if I was erroneously placed in CSRS and did not pay Social Security taxes?
(a) If your qualifying retirement coverage error was not previously corrected, the amount erroneously withheld for CSRS retirement deductions will be:
(1) Used to pay your new retirement deduction amount; and
(2) Applied toward any Social Security taxes you owe for the time you were in the wrong retirement plan.
(b) You will get Social Security credit for all the time you were erroneously covered by CSRS. Your employer will send the Social Security Administration a record of your earnings for all the years you should have had Social Security coverage.
§ 839.903
What happens to the Social Security taxes I erroneously paid when my employer corrects my retirement coverage to CSRS?
(a) Except for the last 3 years, the money you erroneously paid into Social Security will remain to your credit in the Social Security fund. The Social Security Administration will include all but those last 3 years in determining your eligibility for, and the amount of, future benefits.
(b) The amount you paid into Social Security for the last 3 years will be used to help pay your CSRS retirement deductions.

# Subpart J—Lost Earnings for Certain Make-up Contributions to the TSP
§ 839.1001
Does the FERCCA allow me to increase my TSP account if I was in CSRS during my qualifying retirement coverage error and my correct coverage will be FERS?
The Board's error correction regulations (5 CFR 1605 of chapter VI) generally allow you to increase your TSP account through a schedule of make-up contributions to replace the missed employee contributions. In addition, the FERCCA allows certain employees who have completed a schedule of make-up contributions, or who plan to
schedule make-up contributions, to receive lost earnings on those contributions under certain circumstances. Employees are (and have been) entitled to lost earnings on the make-up agency contributions they receive as a result of the correction of an agency error.
§ 839.1002
Will OPM compute the lost earnings if my qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected and I made TSP make-up contributions?
If you made contributions to the TSP after your qualifying retirement coverage error was previously corrected, OPM will compute the lost earnings on your make-up contributions to the TSP under the following circumstances:
You were in:
And were
previously corrected to:
And under these rules you elect:
CSRS
FERS
FERS.
CSRS Offset
FERS
Social Security-Only
FERS
No election required.
Social Security-Only
CSRS
Social Security-Only
CSRS Offset
§ 839.1003
How will OPM compute the amount of lost earnings?
(a) Lost earnings will generally be computed in accordance with the Board's lost earnings regulations (5 CFR 1606 of chapter VI). However, the FERCCA states that OPM may compute the lost earnings in an alternative manner if such a computation is not administratively feasible. The alternative manner will yield an amount that is as close as practicable to the amount computed under 5 CFR 1606 of chapter VI.
(b) Your employer is required to submit to OPM all information required to compute the amount of lost earnings.
§ 839.1004
Are lost earnings payable if I separated or if the employee died?
(a) Yes. If the TSP account is not withdrawn, the lost earnings are paid to the account.
(b) If there is no TSP account at the time the lost earnings are payable, you or your survivors will receive the payment directly.

# Subpart K—Effect of Election

# General Provisions
§ 839.1101
How are my retirement benefits computed if I elect CSRS or CSRS Offset under this part?
Unless otherwise stated in this part, your retirement benefit is computed as if you were properly put in CSRS or CSRS Offset on the effective date of the error. All the eligibility and benefit computation rules for CSRS or CSRS Offset apply to your retirement benefit.
§ 839.1102
How are my retirement benefits computed if I elect FERS under this part?
OPM will compute your retirement benefit as if you were properly put in FERS on the effective date of the error. All the eligibility and benefit computation rules for FERS apply to your retirement benefit.
§ 839.1103
If my qualifying retirement coverage error started when I should have been placed under FERS automatically, but my agency put me in CSRS because I had some past service, will I get a CSRS component in my FERS annuity for the service before the error if I elect FERS?
No, employees who should have been automatically placed in FERS (generally because they did not have 5 years of past service under CSRS rules) do not have a CSRS component in their future FERS benefit. All service must be treated as FERS service in this circumstance.

# Retirees and Survivors
§ 839.1111
If I elect to change my retirement coverage under the FERCCA, can I change the election I originally made at retirement for survivor benefits?
(a) Yes, if you elect to change your retirement coverage under the FERCCA, you will have an opportunity to change the election you made for survivor benefits.
(b) If you elect less than the maximum survivor benefit, your spouse's consent is necessary in accordance with § 831.614 or § 842.603(a)(1) of this chapter, as applicable.
§ 839.1112
If I elect to change my retirement coverage under the FERCCA, can I retroactively revoke the waiver of military retired pay I made at retirement?
Yes, you may retroactively change your decision regarding waiver of your military retired pay.
§ 839.1113
If I elect to change my retirement coverage under the FERCCA, can I change my decision about making a deposit or redeposit for civilian or military service?
Yes, you or your survivor will have a new opportunity to decide whether to pay any deposits or redeposits.
§ 839.1114
Will OPM actuarially reduce my benefit if I elect to change my retirement coverage under these rules?
Your annuity may be subject to three possible actuarial reductions under the FERCCA. These reductions may be required for an unpaid deposit (see § 831.303(d) and § 839.1116 of this chapter), for Government contributions in a TSP account (see § 839.1118), or for a previous payment of the Basic Employee Death Benefit (see § 839.1121).
§ 839.1115
What is an actuarial reduction?
An actuarial reduction allows you to receive benefits without having to pay an amount due in a lump sum. OPM reduces your annuity in a way that, on average, allows the Fund to recover the amount of the missing lump sum over your lifetime. The actuarial reduction becomes a permanent reduction in your benefit. The amount of the reduction depends on your age and the amount of the lump sum you would otherwise have to pay at that time. To compute an actuarial reduction, OPM divides the lump sum amount by the present value factor for your age at retirement.
§ 839.1116
If, because of the change in my retirement coverage, I will owe larger deposits for military and civilian service credit, will I have to pay the additional deposit due or will OPM actuarially reduce my annuity?
You can choose to pay the additional deposit amount. If you choose not to pay the deposit, OPM will actuarially reduce your annuity, as explained in 831.303(d) of this chapter.
§ 839.1117
If I elect to change my retirement coverage under the FERCCA, can I get a refund of the service credit deposit I made and receive the actuarial reduction instead?
No, the FERCCA allows OPM to reduce an annuity by an actuarial reduction only for the deposit amount that remains unpaid.
§ 839.1118
Will my annuity be actuarially reduced because I had Government contributions in my TSP account?
Retirees and survivors of deceased employees who received a Government contribution to their TSP account after being corrected to FERS and who later elect CSRS Offset under the FERCCA are allowed to keep the Government contributions, and earnings on the Government contributions in the TSP account. Instead of adjusting the TSP account, the FERCCA requires that the CSRS-Offset annuity be reduced actuarially.
§ 839.1119
How is the actuarial reduction for TSP computed?
(a) The part of your TSP account on the date you retired that is Government contributions and earnings on those Government contributions forms the basis for the actuarial reduction. OPM will divide the Government contributions and earnings by the present value factor for your age (in full years) at the time you retired. OPM will then round the result to the next highest dollar amount, which will be the monthly actuarial reduction amount.
(b) If a survivor annuity is the only benefit that is payable, the present value factor for the survivor's age at the time of death is used. The survivor benefit is not reduced for TSP if the retiree's rate was reduced.

# Survivor Benefits
§ 839.1121
What is the Actuarial Reduction for the Basic Employee Death Benefit (BEDB)?
If you received a BEDB under FERS and you elect CSRS Offset under these rules, you do not have to pay back the
BEDB. Instead, the FERCCA requires that OPM actuarially reduce your survivor annuity. The reduction will be the amount of the BEDB divided by the present value factor for your age at the time of the employee's death. The result is rounded to the next highest dollar amount and is the monthly actuarial reduction amount. If you elected to receive the BEDB in installments rather than a lump sum, the lump-sum amount is used for the purpose of computing the actuarial reduction.
§ 839.1122
Does receipt of a one-time payment of retirement contributions as a death benefit prevent me from electing CSRS Offset?
You may still elect CSRS Offset if otherwise eligible. OPM will collect the amount of the one-time death benefit from any survivor benefits that are payable.

# Subpart L—Discretionary Actions by OPM
§ 839.1201
If I took legal action against my employer because of a qualifying retirement coverage error, can OPM reimburse me for expenses related to my legal actions?
(a) The FERCCA allows OPM, in its sole discretion, to reimburse you for necessary and reasonable expenses you actually incurred while pursuing a legal or administrative remedy of your qualifying retirement coverage error.
(b) Necessary and reasonable expenses include actual amounts paid for attorney fees, court costs, expert witness fees, and other litigation expenses.
(c) You may not receive reimbursement under this section if you received a monetary award that compensated you for your litigation expenses.
(d) You must support your request for reimbursement with evidence that supports your claim.
(e) In determining what is a necessary and reasonable expense, OPM will consider:
(1) The type and amount of the expense;
(2) The circumstances that gave rise to the expense; and
(3) Whether the expense is directly related to litigation concerning a retirement coverage error.
§ 839.1202
Can OPM waive repayment of a monetary award I received as resolution of the harm caused me by a qualifying retirement coverage error?
(a) The FERCCA allows OPM, in its sole discretion, to waive repayment of all or part of a settlement payment or court-ordered payment if you can demonstrate that CSRS Offset coverage does not fully compensate you for your losses.
(b) Your request for waiver must state why you believe waiver of repayment is appropriate and include any evidence that supports your request.
§ 839.1203
Can OPM compensate me for my losses if I did not take any legal action against my employer, but did incur some expenses because of a qualifying retirement coverage error?
(a) The FERCCA allows OPM, in its sole discretion, to compensate you for a monetary loss that is a direct and proximate result of your retirement coverage error.
(b) Monetary losses include payments of additional Social Security taxes, payment of additional retirement deductions, and other out-of-pocket expenses that you incurred because of a retirement coverage error.
(c) You must substantiate your claim for losses with any evidence that supports your request.
(d) OPM cannot pay you for:
(1) Claimed losses related to forgone contributions and earnings under the TSP, other than lost earnings on make-up contributions to the TSP as provided in subpart J of this part; and
(2) Claimed losses related to any other investment opportunities.
§ 839.1204
On what basis will OPM review claims under this subpart?
(a) OPM will base its decision on only the written record, including all of your submissions and other documentation in OPM's possession.
(b) At OPM's discretion, OPM may request your employer to provide an administrative report. The report may include:
(1) A description of the retirement coverage error;
(2) A statement as to whether a settlement or other court-ordered award was made;
(3) The employer's recommendation for resolution of the claim; and
(4) Any other information your employer believes OPM should consider.
(c) The burden of proof that the criteria for approving a reimbursement of expenses is on you.
§ 839.1205
Does the Director of OPM review the claims?
The Associate Director for Retirement and Insurance and his or her delegatees have the authority to perform the Director's actions, as set out in this subpart (see section 2208 of the FERCCA).
§ 839.1206
How do I submit a claim under this subpart?
(a) No specific form is required. Your request must be in writing and contain the following information:
(1) It must describe the basis for the claim and state the dollar amount you seek to receive;
(2) It must include your name, address, and telephone number;
(3) It must include the name, address, and telephone number of your current or last employer;
(4) It must be signed by you; and
(5) It must include any information you believe OPM should consider, such as cancelled checks or other evidence of amounts you paid.
(b) Send your claim to: Office of Personnel Management, Retirement and Insurance Service, ATTN: FC Section, Washington, DC 20415-3200

# Subpart M—Appeal Rights
§ 839.1301
What if my employer determines my error is not subject to these rules?
(a) Your employer must provide you with a written decision. The decision must include the reason for the decision, and notice of your right to appeal the decision to the MSPB.
(b) If your employer determines that it cannot waive the time limit for making an election under § 839.612, the decision must inform you of your right to ask OPM to review the decision. OPM will advise you in writing of your appeal rights following its review of your employer's decision.
§ 839.1302
What types of decisions can I appeal?
(a) You can appeal to the MSPB a decision that affects your rights and interests under this part, except an OPM decision under subpart L (see § 839.1303). Some examples of decisions are:
(1) Your employer's determination that your error is not subject to these rules;
(2) Your employer's determination that you are not eligible to elect retirement coverage under these rules; and
(3) OPM's denial of your request for a waiver of the time limit for making an election.
(b) You may not seek review of a decision under any employee grievance procedures, including those established by chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, and 5 CFR part 771.
§ 839.1303
Are there any types of decisions that I cannot appeal?
Yes, OPM's decisions under subpart L (Discretionary Actions by OPM) are final and conclusive and are not subject to administrative or judicial review.
§ 839.1304
Is there anything else I can do if I am not satisfied with the way my error was corrected?
(a) Except for claims under subpart L (see § 839.1303), and after exhausting your administrative remedies as set out in this subpart, you may bring a claim against the Government under section 1346(b) or chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
(b) You may also bring a claim against the Government under any other provision of law if your claim is for amounts not otherwise provided for under these rules.
Pt. 841

# PART 841—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM—GENERAL ADMINISTRATION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
841.101
Purpose.
841.102
Regulatory structure for the Federal Employees Retirement System.
841.103
Definitions.
841.104
Special terms defined.
841.105
Administration of FERS.
841.106
Basic records.
841.107
Computation of interest.
841.108
Disclosure of information.
841.109
Computation of time.
841.110
Garnishment of FERS payments.
841.111
Garnishment of payments after disbursement.

# Subpart B—Applications for Benefits
841.201
Purpose.
841.202
Applications required.
841.203
Withdrawal of applications.
841.204
Deemed application to protect survivors.

# Subpart C—Claims Processing
841.301
Purpose.
841.302
Definitions.
841.303
Applications filed with agencies.
841.304
Applications filed with OPM.
841.305
Decisions subject to reconsideration.
841.306
Reconsideration.
841.307
Final decisions without reconsideration.
841.308
Appeals to MSPB.
841.309
Competing claimants.

# Subpart D—Government Costs
841.401
Purpose and scope.
841.402
Definitions.
841.403
Categories of employees for computation of normal cost percentages.
841.404
Demographic factors.
841.405
Economic assumptions.
841.406
Determination of normal cost percentages.
841.407
Notice of normal cost percentage determinations.
841.408
Effective date of normal cost percentages.
841.409
Agency right to appeal normal cost percentage.
841.410
Contents of petition for appeal of normal cost percentage.
841.411
Appeals procedure for normal cost percentage.
841.412
Rates determined by appeal.
841.413
Determinations of amount due from each agency.
841.414
Computation of the supplemental liability.
841.415
Right to request reconsideration of the supplemental liability.
841.416
Contents of a request for reconsideration of the supplemental liability.
841.417
Reconsideration of the supplemental liability.

# Subpart E—Employee Deductions and Government Contributions
841.501
Purpose.
841.502
Definitions.
841.503
Amounts of employee deductions.
841.504
Agency responsibilities.
841.505
Correction of error.
841.506
Effect of part 772 of this chapter on FERS payments.
841.507
Correction of unjustified or unwarranted personnel action.
841.508
Effective date.

# Subpart F—Computation of Interest
841.601
Purpose.
841.602
Definitions.
841.603
Rate of interest.
841.604
Interest on service credit deposits.
841.605
Interest included in the unexpended balance.
841.606
Interest on survivor reduction deposits.
841.607
Interest on overpayment debts.

# Subpart G—Cost-of-Living Adjustments
841.701
Purpose and scope.
841.702
Definitions.
841.703
Increases on basic annuities and survivor annuities.
841.704
Proration of COLA's.
841.705
Increases on basic employee death benefits.
841.706
Increases on combined CSRS/FERS annuities.
841.707
COLA's affecting computation of survivor supplements.
841.708
Special provisions affecting retired military reserve technicians.

# Subpart H—Waiver of Benefits
841.801
Purpose.
841.802
Definitions.
841.803
Waiver of annuity.
841.804
Waiver and court orders.
Subpart I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—State Income Tax Withholding
841.1001
Purpose.
841.1002
Definitions.
841.1003
Federal-State agreements.
841.1004
OPM responsibilities.
841.1005
State responsibilities.
841.1006
Additional provisions.
841.1007
Agreement modification and termination.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8461; Sec. 841.108 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 552a; Secs. 841.110 and 841.111 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8470(a); subpart D also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8423; Sec. 841.504 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8422; Sec. 841.507 also issued under section 505 of Pub. L. 99-335; subpart J also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8469; Sec. 841.506 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 7701(b)(2); Sec. 841.508 also issued under section 505 of Pub. L. 99-335; Sec. 841.604 also
issued under Title II, Pub. L. 106-265, 114 Stat. 780; Sec. 5001 of Pub. L. 112-96 at 126 Stat. 199.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
52 FR 19242, May 21, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to state the administrative rules governing the operations of the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) that have general application to the basic benefits under FERS.
§ 841.102
Regulatory structure for the Federal Employees Retirement System.
(a) This part contains the following subparts:
(1) General provisions (subpart A);
(2) Applications for benefits (subpart B);
(3) Claims processing (subpart C);
(4) Government costs (subpart D);
(5) Employee deductions and Government contributions (subpart E);
(6) Computing interest (subpart F);
(7) Cost-of-Living Adjustments (subpart G);
(8) Waiver, allotment, or assignment of benefits (subpart H);
(9) Court orders affecting benefits (subpart I); and
(10) State income tax withholding (subpart J).
(b)(1) Part 842 of this chapter contains information about basic annuity rights of employees and Members under FERS.
(2) Part 843 of this chapter contains information about death benefits and employee refunds under FERS.
(3) Part 844 of this chapter contains information about disability retirement benefits under FERS.
(4) Part 845 of this chapter contains information about debt collection.
(5) Part 846 of this chapter contains information about election rights available to employees who are eligible to join FERS.
(6) Part 848 of this chapter contains information about phased retirement under FERS.
(c)(1) Part 831 of this chapter contains information about the Civil Service Retirement System.
(2) Part 835 of this chapter contains information about debt collection from FERS benefits.
(3) Part 837 of this chapter contains information about reemployment of FERS annuitants.
(4) Part 838 of this chapter contains information about court orders affecting FERS benefits.
(5) Part 847 of this chapter contains information about elections under the Civil Service Retirement System or FERS relating to periods of service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality under the jurisdiction of the armed forces.
(6) Part 850 of this chapter contains information about CSRS and FERS electronic retirement processing.
(7) Parts 294 and 297 of this chapter and §§ 831.106 and 841.108 of this chapter contain information about disclosure of information from OPM records.
(8) Part 581 of this chapter contains information about garnishment of Government payments including salary and CSRS and FERS retirement benefits.
(9) Parts 870, 871, 872, and 873 of this chapter contain information about the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program.
(10) Part 890 of this chapter contains information about coverage under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
(11) Chapter II (parts 1200 through 1299) of this title contains information about appeals to the Merit Systems Protection Board.
(12) Chapter VI (parts 1600 through 1699) of this title contains information about the Federal Employees Thrift Savings Plan.
[52 FR 19242, May 21, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 14229, Apr. 17, 1990; 61 FR 41720, Aug. 9, 1996; 79 FR 46631, Aug. 8, 2014]
§ 841.103
Definitions.
In this subpart—
CSRS
means the Civil Service Retirement System as described in subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
FERS
means the Federal Employees Retirement System as described in
chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
FERS FRAE,
or a Further Revised Annuity Employee as identified under 5 U.S.C. 8422, is an employee or Member covered under FERS hired on or after January 1, 2014, unless the employee or Member—
(1) Was covered under FERS on December 31, 2012; or
(2) Performed civilian service creditable or potentially creditable under FERS on December 31, 2012;
(3) Or, if not covered under FERS on December 31, 2012, performed at least 5 years of civilian service creditable or potentially creditable under FERS prior to December 31, 2012; or
(4) Was covered under FERS RAE on December 31, 2013; or
(5) Was performing civilian service creditable or potentially creditable under FERS RAE on December 31, 2013; or
(6) If not covered under FERS RAE on December 31, 2013, performed at least 5 years of civilian service creditable or potentially creditable under FERS prior to December 31, 2013.
FERS RAE,
or a Revised Annuity Employee as identified under 5 U.S.C. 8422, is an employee or Member covered under FERS hired on or after January 1, 2013, and before January 1, 2014, unless the employee or Member—
(1) Was covered under FERS on December 31, 2012; or
(2) Performed civilian service creditable or potentially creditable under FERS on December 31, 2012; or
(3) If not covered under FERS on December 31, 2012, performed at least 5 years of civilian service creditable or potentially creditable under FERS prior to December 31, 2012.
[52 FR 19242, May 21, 1987, as amended at 88 FR 31468, May 17, 2023]
§ 841.104
Special terms defined.
(a) Unless otherwise defined for use in any subpart, as used in connection with FERS (parts 841 through 850 of this chapter), terms defined in 5 U.S.C. 8401 have the same meanings assigned to them by that section.
(b) Unless otherwise defined for use in any subpart, as used in connection with FERS (parts 841 through 850 of this chapter)—
Agency
means an executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code; a legislative branch agency; a judicial agency; and the U.S. Postal Service and Postal Rate Commission.
Associate Director
means the Associate Director for Retirement and Insurance in OPM, or his or her designee.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
[52 FR 19242, May 21, 1987, as amended at 79 FR 46631, Aug. 8, 2014]
§ 841.105
Administration of FERS.
(a) OPM has charge of the adjudication of all claims for basic benefits arising under FERS and of all matters directly or indirectly concerned with these adjudications.
(b) In the adjudication of claims arising under FERS, OPM will consider and take appropriate action on counterclaims filed by the Government as set-offs against amounts payable from the Civil Service Retirement Fund.
§ 841.106
Basic records.
(a) Agencies having employees or Members subject to FERS must establish and maintain retirement accounts for those employees and Members.
(b)(1) The individual retirement record required by § 841.504(c) is the basic record for action on all claims for annuity or refund, and those pertaining to deceased employees, deceased Members, or deceased annuitants.
(2) When the official records repository for the records in question certifies that the records in question are lost, destroyed, or incomplete, OPM will accept such inferior or secondary evidence that it considers appropriate under the circumstances, and such inferior or secondary evidence is then admissible.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, inferior or secondary evidence will not be considered.
[52 FR 19242, May 21, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32154, July 21, 1992]
§ 841.107
Computation of interest.
Interest, when applicable, will be computed under subpart F of this part.
§ 841.108
Disclosure of information.
(a)(1) Except as provided in section 8461 of title 5, United States Code, OPM has in its possession or under its control records containing the following types of information:
(i) Documentation of Federal service subject to FERS.
(ii) Documentation of service credit and refund claims made under FERS.
(iii) Retirement and death claims files, including documents supporting the retirement application, health benefits and life insurance eligibility, medical records supporting disability claims, and designations of beneficiaries.
(iv) Claims review and correspondence files pertaining to benefits under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
(v) Documentation of claims made for life insurance and health benefits by annuitants under a Federal Government retirement system other than FERS.
(2) These records may be disclosed to the individual to whom the information pertains, or, with prior written consent of the individual, to any agency or other person, except that medical evidence about which a prudent physician would hesitate to inform the individual, will be disclosed only to a licensed physician designated in writing for that purpose by the individual or by his or her representative.
(3) Federal employee retirement records will be disclosed consistent with the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), including, but not limited to, disclosures pursuant to a routine use promulgated for such records and printed in OPM's periodic publication of notices of systems of records. However, a beneficiary designated in accordance with FERS (5 U.S.C. 8424(c)) will, during the lifetime of the designator, be disclosed to the designator only, at his or her signed written request. Such beneficiary designations that may appear in records being disclosed to other than the designator must be removed before the record is disclosed. If information pertaining to a designation of beneficiary is specifically asked for by a court of competent jurisdiction, it may be released to the court, but with a written notice that it is released under protest.
(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, OPM will not disclose information from the files, records, reports, or other papers and documents pertaining to a claim filed with OPM, whether potential, pending, or adjudicated. This information is privileged and confidential.
(b) On written request OPM will return, to the person entitled to them, certificates of discharge, adoption papers, marriage certificates, decrees of divorce, letters testamentary or of administration, when they are no longer needed in the settlement of the claim. If papers returned constitute part of the material and essential evidence in a claim, OPM will retain copies of them or of the parts of them that appear to be of evidentiary value.
§ 841.109
Computation of time.
In computing a period of time for filing documents, the day of the action or event after which the designated period of time begins to run is not included. The last day of the period is included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday; in this event, the period runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday.
§ 841.110
Garnishment of FERS payments.
FERS payments are not subject to execution, levy, attachment, garnishment or other legal process except as expressly provided by Federal law.
[76 FR 9962, Feb. 23, 2011]
§ 841.111
Garnishment of payments after disbursement.
(a) Payments that are covered by 5 U.S.C. 8470(a) and made by direct deposit are subject to 31 CFR part 212, Garnishment of Accounts Containing Federal Benefit Payments.
(b) This section may be amended only by a rulemaking issued jointly by the Department of the Treasury and the agencies defined as a “benefit agency” in 31 CFR part 212.
[76 FR 9962, Feb. 23, 2011]

# Subpart B—Applications for Benefits

# Source:
52 FR 19244, May 21, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.201
Purpose.
This subpart states the general application requirement applicable under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). Specific application requirements for particular benefits are contained with the regulations concerning those benefits.
§ 841.202
Applications required.
(a) No benefit is payable under FERS, until after the claimant has applied for the benefit in the form prescribed by OPM.
(b) An employee, Member, or survivor may exercise any option or make any election authorized by FERS only in the form prescribed by OPM.
§ 841.203
Withdrawal of applications.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, an applicant for benefits under FERS may withdraw his or her application for benefits until a payment based on that application has been authorized, but not thereafter.
(b) An applicant for benefits under FERS may not withdraw his or her application for benefits after OPM has received a certified copy of a court order (under part 581 of this chapter or subpart I of this part) affecting the benefits.
(c) When an “appropriate authority” determines that the separation upon which payment has been based is an “unjustified or unwarranted personnel action” as these terms are defined in § 550.804 of this chapter, an individual may withdraw his/her application for FERS benefits within 60 days of the decision. As provided in § 550.805, any FERS payments must be deducted from any back pay award.
§ 841.204
Deemed application to protect survivors.
(a) A former employee is deemed to have filed an application for annuity if the former employee—
(1) Was not reemployed in a position subject to FERS under subpart A of part 842 of this chapter on the date of death;
(2) Dies after separation from Federal service but before actually filing an application for benefits; and
(3) At the time of separation from Federal service, was eligible for an immediate annuity under § 842.204(a)(1) and was eligible to elect to postpone the commencing date of that annuity under § 842.204(c) of this chapter.
(b) For the purpose of determining entitlement to a survivor annuity, a former employee who is deemed to have filed an application under paragraph (a) of this section is considered to have died as a retiree.
(c) For purposes of determining the amount of a survivor annuity, the annuity of a former employee who, under paragraph (a) of this section, is deemed to have filed an application is computed as though the commencing date were the first day of the month after the former employee's death.
[55 FR 994, Jan. 11, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 41179, Oct. 10, 1990]

# Subpart C—Claims Processing

# Source:
52 FR 19244, May 21, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.301
Purpose.
(a) This subpart explains—
(1) The procedures that employees. separated employees, retirees, and survivors must follow in applying for benefits under FERS;
(2) The procedures that OPM will generally follow in determining eligibility for benefits under FERS;
(3) The appeal rights available to claimants adversely affected by OPM decisions under FERS; and
(4) The special rules for processing competing claimant cases under FERS.
(b) This subpart does not apply to processing—
(1) Forfeiture of annuity for conviction of certain criminal offenses relating to national security under subchapter II of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code (processed under subpart K of part 831 of this chapter);
(2) Court orders affecting FERS benefits (processed under subpart I of this part); or
(3) Collection of debts due to the United States (processed under part 845 of this chapter).
§ 841.302
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Employee
means an employee as defined in section 8401(11) of title 5, United States Code, and a Member as defined in section 8401(20) of title 5, United States Code.
Employee
includes a person who had applied for retirement under FERS but had not been separated from the service prior to his or her death even if the person's retirement would have been retroactively effective upon separation.
FERS
means the Federal Employees Retirement System as described in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
MSPB
means the Merit Systems Protection Board described in chapter 12 of title 5, United States Code.
Retiree
means a former employee or Member who is receiving recurring payments under FERS based on service by the employee or Member.
Retiree,
as used in this subpart, does not include a current spouse, former spouse, child, or person with an insurable interest receiving a survivor annuity.
Retiree
for purposes of determining a person's status at the time of death means that the person had been separated from the service and had met all the requirements to receive an annuity including having filed an application for the annuity prior to his or her death.
Separated employee
means a former employee or Member who has been separated from the service but who has not met all the requirements for retirement under FERS or who has not filed an application for retirement under FERS.
Survivor
means a person entitled to benefits under part 843 or 846 of this chapter based on the death of an employee, separated employee, retiree, or survivor.
§ 841.303
Applications filed with agencies.
(a) Employees filing applications for retirement or to make deposits or redeposits under FERS (including applications for disability retirement) and separating employees filing applications for refunds of contributions must file their applications with their employing agencies.
(b) Survivors filing applications for death benefits based on the death of an employee may file their applications with the employee's employing agency.
§ 841.304
Applications filed with OPM.
(a) Separated employees filing applications for retirement or refunds of contributions; survivors filing applications for death benefits based on the deaths of separated employees, retirees, or survivors; and retirees making elections or seeking to change information in their retirement records must file their applications with OPM.
(b) Survivors filing applications for death benefits based on the death of an employee may file their applications with OPM.
§ 841.305
Decisions subject to reconsideration.
(a) A OPM decision under FERS is subject to reconsideration by OPM, whenever the decision is in writing and states the right to reconsideration.
(b) OPM will reconsider a decision subject to reconsideration under § 841.306. A decision subject to reconsideration is not subject to appeal under § 841.308.
§ 841.306
Reconsideration.
(a)
Who may file.
Except as noted in paragraph (b) of this section, any individual whose rights or interests under FERS are affected by an OPM decision (under § 841.305) stating the right to request reconsideration may request OPM to review its initial decision.
(b)
Actions covered elsewhere.
(1) A request for reconsideration of termination of annuity payments under 5 U.S.C. 8311 through 22 will be made in accordance with the procedures set out in subpart K of part 831 of this chapter.
(2) A request for reconsideration of a decision to collect a debt will be made in accordance with § 845.204(b).
(3) A decision on court orders affecting FERS benefits will be made in accordance with subpart I of this part.
(c)
Reconsideration.
A request for reconsideration, when applicable, must be in writing, must include the applicant's name, address, date of birth and claim number, if applicable, and must state the basis for the request.
(d)
Time limits on reconsideration.
(1) A request for reconsideration must be received by OPM within 30 calendar days from the date of the initial decision.
(2) The Associate Director's representative responsible for reconsiderations may extend the time limit for filing when the requestor shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.
(e)
Final decision.
After any applicable reconsideration, the Associate Director's representative will issue a final decision that must be in writing, must fully set forth the findings and conclusions of the reconsideration, and must contain notice of the right to request an appeal provided in § 841.308. Copies of the final decision must be sent to the individual, to any competing claimants and, where applicable, to the agency.
§ 841.307
Final decisions without reconsideration.
OPM may issue a final decision providing the opportunity to appeal under § 841.308 rather than an opportunity to request reconsideration under § 841.306. Such a decision must be in writing and state the right to appeal under § 841.308.
§ 841.308
Appeals to MSPB.
Except as noted in this paragraph, an individual whose rights or interests under FERS are affected by a final decision of OPM may request MSPB to review the decision in accord with procedures prescribed by MSPB. Decisions made in accord with the procedures referenced in § 841.306(b)(1) are made under subchapter II of chapter 83, title 5, United States Code. Such decisions are not appealable to MSPB under section 8461(e) of title 5, United States Code.
§ 841.309
Competing claimants.
(a) Competing claimants are applicants for survivor benefits based on the service of an employee, separated employee, or retiree when—
(1) A benefit is payable based on the service of the employee, separated employee, or retiree; and
(2) Two or more claimants have applied for benefits based on the service of the employee, separated employee, or retiree; and
(3) An OPM decision in favor of one claimant will adversely affect another claimant(s).
(b) In cases involving competing claimants, the Associate Director or his or her designee will issue a final decision that will be in writing, will fully set forth findings and conclusions, and will contain notice of the right to appeal provided in § 841.308. Copies of the final decision will be sent to all competing claimants.
(c)(1) When OPM receives applications from competing claimants before any payments are made based on the service of the employee or Member, OPM will begin payments to the claimant(s) found entitled in the decision issued under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) When OPM does not receive an application from a competing claimant(s) until after another person has begun to receive payments based on the service of the employee or Member, the payments will continue until a decision is issued under paragraph (b) of this section. When a decision is issued under paragraph (b) of this section, OPM will—
(i) If OPM affirms its earlier decision, continue payments to the claimant(s) OPM originally determined to be entitled; or
(ii) If OPM reverses its earlier decision, suspend payment to the claimant(s) OPM originally determined to be entitled and immediately begin payment to the claimant(s) OPM determines to be entitled in its decision under paragraph (b) of this section. OPM will not take action to collect the overpayment until the time limit for filing an appeal has expired or the MSPB has issued a final decision on a timely appeal, whichever comes later.

# Subpart D—Government Costs

# Source:
51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.401
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to regulate the Government contributions to the Civil Service Retirement Fund under FERS.
(b) This subpart covers—
(1) Factors considered in the computation of agency contributions under FERS;
(2) Publication of notice of the normal cost rates for each category of employees;
(3) Agency appeals of rate determinations;
(4) Methodology for determining the amount due from each agency; and
(5) Requests for reconsideration of the supplemental liability.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 82 FR 49280, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.402
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Actuary
means a professional who meets the qualification standards to issue a statement of actuarial opinion in regard to defined benefit retirement plans in the United States.
Administrative expenses
means the normal cost loading applicable to the administration of FERS.
Age
means age, as of the beginning of the fiscal year, rounded to the nearest birthday.
Agency head
means, for the executive branch agencies, the head of an executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105; for the legislative branch, the Secretary of the Senate, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the head of any other legislative branch agency; for the judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts; for the Postal Service, the Postmaster General; for any other independent establishment that is an entity of the Federal Government, the head of the establishment.
Board
means the Board of Actuaries of the Civil Service Retirement System.
Category of employees
means a grouping of employees under § 841.403.
Child survivor termination and death rates
means the rate, by age of the child, at which child survivor benefits terminate.
CSRS
means subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
Death and recovery rates for disability annuitants
means the rate, by age, sex, and duration on the roll, at which disability annuitants are removed from the annuity roll because of death; and the rate, by age, sex, and duration on the roll, at which disability annuitants are removed from the annuity roll because of recovery or restoration to earning capacity.
Death and remarriage rates for surviving spouses
means the rate, based on the sex of the employee, age of the survivor annuitant, and the duration on the annuity roll, at which spousal survivor annuitants are removed from the annuity roll because of death; and the rate, based on the sex of the employee, age of the survivor annuitant, and the duration on the roll, at which survivor annuitants are removed from the annuity roll because of remarriage.
Death rates for non-disability annuitants
means the rate, by age and sex of the annuitant, at which non- disability annuitants are removed from the annuity roll because of death.
Disability retirement rates
means the rate, by age, sex, length of service, and whether the employees are eligible for social security disability benefits, at which employees retire for disability.
Duration on the roll
means the number of full years on the annuity roll as of the beginning of the fiscal year.
Economic Assumptions
means the assumptions used by the Board with respect to inflation, interest rates, and wage and salary growth.
Employee death rates
means the rate, by age and sex of the employees and whether the employees are survived by spouses entitled to survivor annuities, at which employees die in service.
Employees
means employees as defined in section 8401(11) of title 5, United States Code, and Members, as defined in section 8401(20) of title 5, United States Code.
Family characteristics of annuitants
means, based on the annuitant's age and sex, and in some cases, on the type
of annuity (regular, disability, or deferred), the number and average age of child survivors at the death of the annuitant, the percentage of annuitants with an annuity reduced to provide survivor benefits, the percentage of annuitants who actually leave a surviving spouse entitled to a survivor annuity at the annuitant's death, and the average age of the surviving spouse.
Family characteristics of employees
means, based on the employee's age at death and sex, the number and average age of child survivors and the average age of the surviving spouse, per death of an employee with a survivor.
FERS
means chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Involuntary retirement rates
means, by age and sex of the employee, the rate of involuntary retirements (discontinued service and optional early retirements).
Merit salary increases
means salary increases, by age and length of service, that are not general salary increases. “Merit salary increases” include promotions and within-grade and similar increases based in whole or in part on employee performance, but do not include comparability increases, Postal Service COLA, or similar adjustments to entire pay scales; or premium pay.
Military service rates
means the fraction, by age and sex, of employees who have military service to all employees, and the average length of military service and the salary on which their deposits to receive credit for military service are based for these employees.
Normal cost percentage
or
normal cost
means the entry-age normal cost of the provisions of FERS which relate to the Fund, computed by the Office in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practice and standards (using dynamic assumptions) and expressed as a level percentage of aggregate basic pay.
Service
means all creditable service, including military service, rounded to the nearest number of years as of the beginning of the fiscal year.
Single agency rate
means a normal cost percentage for one category of employees in one agency. A single agency rate is set under § 841.412 as a result of a successful appeal.
Voluntary retirement rates
means the rate, based on the sex, age, and service of the employee, of regular longevity retirements.
Withdrawal rates
means the rate at which employees leave FERS-covered service without retiring, including employees who are paid refunds and employees who take deferred retirement. These rates are of two types: “not offset for reentry” and “offset for reentry.” These rates are by age and service.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 82 FR 49280, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.403
Categories of employees for computation of normal cost percentages.
Separate normal cost percentages for FERS, FERS-RAE and FERS-FRAE will be determined for each of the following groups of employees:
(a) Members;
(b) Capitol Police covered under 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) and 5 U.S.C. 8425(c);
(c) Other Congressional employees;
(d) Law enforcement officers, members of the Supreme Court Police, firefighters, nuclear materials couriers, customs and border protection officers, and employees under section 302 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees.
(e) Air traffic controllers;
(f) Military reserve technicians;
(g) Employees under section 303 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1964 for Certain Employees when serving abroad;
(h) Other employees of the United States Postal Service;
(i) All other employees.
[52 FR 25196, July 6, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 42000, July 18, 2011; 82 FR 49280, Oct. 25, 2017; 85 FR 59378, Sept. 22, 2020]
§ 841.404
Demographic factors.
(a) The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) will consider the factors listed below in determining normal cost percentages. To the extent data are available for the factor by specific category of employees, such data will be used. To the extent category specific data are not available, the most relevant available data will be used.
(1) Distributions of new entrants by age, sex, and service;
(2) Withdrawal rates;
(3) Merit salary increases;
(4) Voluntary retirement rates;
(5) Involuntary retirement rates;
(6) Disability retirement rates;
(7) Employee death rates;
(8) Military service rates;
(9) Family characteristics for employees;
(10) Death rates for non-disability annuitants;
(11) Death and recovery rates for disability annuitants;
(12) Child survivor termination and death rates;
(13) Family characteristics for annuitants; and
(14) Administrative expenses.
(b) Generally, each rate, ratio, or fraction must be separately considered to determine the rates for males and their survivors and the rates for females and their survivors, except those rates for child survivors and merit salary increases.
§ 841.405
Economic assumptions.
The determinations of the normal cost percentage will be based on the economic assumptions determined by the Board. When an agency's case is based in whole or in part on the pattern of merit salary increases specific to the agency or to a category of employees within the agency, the Board may require modification of the economic assumptions concerning salary and wage growth to take into account the combined effect of merit and general wage and salary increases.
§ 841.406
Determination of normal cost percentages.
(a) OPM will determine the normal cost percentages for each category of employees. These normal cost percentages will be used by all agencies that have not been granted a single agency rate under § 841.412.
(b) Each normal cost percentage will be rounded to the nearest one-tenth of a percent.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 82 FR 49280, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.407
Notice of normal cost percentage determinations.
(a) No later than 5 years after the publication of a current notice of normal cost percentages, OPM will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice that will contain updated normal cost percentages.
(b) The notice of normal cost percentage will include a statement of—
(1) The normal cost percentages and any single agency rates for each category of employees;
(2) The effective date of any changes made by the notice;
(3) The address for obtaining information on the data and assumptions used in computing the normal cost percentages;
(4) The time limit for submission of appeals under § 841.409; and
(5) The address for filing an appeal under § 841.409.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 82 FR 49280, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.408
Effective date of normal cost percentages.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and in § 841.412, normal cost percentages stated in a notice of normal cost percentages under § 841.407 will be effective at the beginning of the first full pay period of the first fiscal year that commences at least 3 months after the date of publication of the notice.
(b) The initial normal cost percentages will be effective at the beginning of the first pay period on or after January 1, 1987.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993]
§ 841.409
Agency right to appeal normal cost percentage.
(a) An agency with at least 1,000 employees in the general category of employees or 500 employees in any of the special categories may appeal to the Board the normal cost percentage for that category as applied to that agency.
(b) No appeal will be considered by the Board unless the agency files, no later than 6 months after the date of publication of the notice of normal
cost percentages under § 841.407, a petition for appeal that meets
all
the requirements of § 841.410.
[82 FR 49280, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.410
Contents of petition for appeal of normal cost percentage.
(a) To file an appeal, an agency head must, before expiration of the time limit, file with OPM—
(1) A letter of appeal;
(2) An actuarial report; and
(3) A certificate of eligibility (described in paragraph (d) of this section).
(b)(1) The letter of appeal must be in writing and signed by the agency head. Delegation of signatory authority is not permitted.
(2) The letter of appeal may contain any argument the agency wishes to make or may simply submit the actuarial report for consideration.
(c) The actuarial report must contain a detailed actuarial analysis of the normal cost of FERS benefits as applied to the employees of that agency in the category of employees for which the agency is appealing. The actuarial report must—
(1) Be signed by an actuary;
(2) Use the economic assumptions under § 841.405; and
(3) Specifically address and consider each of the demographic factors listed in § 841.404. The appealing agency is responsible for developing data relating to the first nine demographic factors as they relate to the category of agency employees for which the appeal is being filed. OPM's demographic factors (available from OPM) will be presumed to be sufficient and reliable for factors 10 through 13 unless the appealing agency is able to demonstrate, through sufficient and reliable data relating to its employees or former employees, the use of alternative factors is appropriate. The fourteenth factor, administrative expenses, will be supplied by OPM.
(d) The certificate of eligibility is a letter from the agency's director of personnel certifying that the agency has the requisite 1,000 or 500 in the category of employees under consideration.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 82 FR 49280, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.411
Appeals procedure for normal cost percentage.
(a) The normal cost percentages as published under § 841.407 are presumed to apply to all agencies. Any agency appealing application of a published normal cost percentage to any category of employees in its workforce must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that the normal cost percentage for that category of employees in that agency is sufficiently different from the published normal cost percentage.
(b) While an agency has an appeal pending, the published normal cost percentage continues to apply to that agency.
(c) The Board cannot consider an appeal unless all the documents required for a petition for appeal under § 841.410(a) are filed before expiration of the time limit for an appeal.
(d) The Board cannot sustain an appeal unless the Board finds that—
(1) The data used in the agency's actuarial analysis are sufficient and reliable (As a general rule, at least 5 years of data pertaining to any group of employees must be analyzed before the results are considered sufficient and reliable.);
(2) The assumptions used in the agency's actuarial analysis are justified;
(3) When all relevant factors are considered together, there is a demonstrated difference between the published normal cost percentage being appealed and the normal cost percentage for the group at issue; and
(4) The difference is at least 10 percent of the published normal cost percentage being appealed.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 82 FR 49281, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.412
Rates determined by appeal.
(a) If the Board finds that a different normal cost is warranted based on an agency appeal, it will establish a single agency rate for the category of employees in that agency.
(b) The single agency rate will be effective at the beginning of the first pay period beginning 30 days after the date of the Board's decision.
(c) A single agency rate may be higher or lower than the published normal
cost percentage and will remain in force for not less than 3 years.
(d) After a single agency rate has been in force for at least 3 years, OPM may—
(1) Require, no more often than annually, that the agency justify continuation of the rate; and/or
(2) When it publishes a notice of normal cost percentages under § 841.407, terminate the single agency rate.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 82 FR 49281, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.413
Determinations of amount due from each agency.
(a) For each pay period, each agency will determine the total amount of basic pay paid to employees in each category of employees.
(b) For each category of employees, the amount due from each agency for a pay period is the product of—
(1) The total amount of basic pay of employees in that category of employees in that agency; and
(2) The normal cost percentage.
[51 FR 47187, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 25196, July 6, 1987]
§ 841.414
Computation of the supplemental liability.
(a) OPM will compute each supplemental liability of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund using demographic factors consistent with those used for the computation of the normal cost percentages under § 841.403.
(b) The supplemental liability will be computed based on the economic assumptions determined by the Board for the most recent valuation of the Federal Employees Retirement System.
(c) Each supplemental liability will be rounded to the nearest one hundred million dollars.
[82 FR 49281, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.415
Right to request reconsideration of the supplemental liability.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury or the Postmaster General may request the Board to reconsider a determination of the amount payable with respect to any supplemental liability.
(b) No request for reconsideration will be considered by the Board unless the Secretary of the Treasury or the Postmaster General files, no later than 6 months after the date of receipt of the first notice of the amount payable with respect to the supplemental liability, a request for reconsideration that meets
all
the requirements of § 841.416.
[82 FR 49281, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.416
Contents of a request for reconsideration of the supplemental liability.
(a) To request reconsideration of the amount payable with respect to the supplemental liability, the Secretary of the Treasury or the Postmaster General must file with OPM—
(1) A signed letter of appeal summarizing the basis of the request; and
(2) An actuarial report that contains a detailed actuarial analysis of the request.
(b) The actuarial report must—
(1) Be signed by an actuary;
(2) Specifically present any data and development of assumptions related to the request for reconsideration;
(3) Use each of the demographic factors listed in § 841.404; and
(4) Use the economic assumptions under § 841.414(b). When a request is based in whole or in part on a pattern of merit salary increases, the report may include an analysis of the economic assumptions concerning salary and wage growth to take into account the combined effect of merit and general wage and salary growth.
[82 FR 49281, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 841.417
Reconsideration of the supplemental liability.
(a) The Board cannot sustain a request for reconsideration unless the Board finds that—
(1) The data used in the actuarial report required by § 841.416 are sufficient and reliable;
(2) The assumptions used in the actuarial report required by § 841.416 are justified; and
(3) The difference in the supplemental liability amount is at least 2 percent of the present value of future benefits calculated in OPM's computation of the supplemental liability.
(b) If the Board sustains a request for reconsideration of the supplemental liability, OPM will recompute the supplemental liability according to the economic and demographic assumptions recommended by the Board.
[82 FR 49281, Oct. 25, 2017]

# Subpart E—Employee Deductions and Government Contributions

# Source:
52 FR 2057, Jan. 16, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.501
Purpose.
This subpart contains regulations concerning deductions from employees' pay and government contributions for FERS coverage.
§ 841.502
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Employee
means employee as defined in § 842.102 of this chapter or Member as defined in section 8401(20) of title 5, United States Code.
Employee deduction
means the portion of the normal cost of FERS coverage which is deducted from an employee's basic pay.
FERS
means chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Fund
means the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
Normal cost percentage
or
Normal cost
means the entryage normal cost of the provisions of FERS which relate to the Fund, computed by the Office in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practice and standards (using dynamic assumptions) and expressed as a level percentage of aggregate basic pay. Normal cost percentage or normal cost include both agency and employee contributions.
Social security
means old age, survivors and disability insurance under section 3101(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
§ 841.503
Amounts of employee deductions.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the rate of employee deductions from basic pay for FERS coverage is seven percent of basic pay minus the percent of tax which is (or would be) in effect for the payment, for the employee cost of social security.
(b) The rate of employee deductions from basic pay for FERS coverage for a Member, law enforcement officer, firefighter, nuclear materials courier, customs and border protection officer, air traffic controller, member of the Supreme Court Police, Congressional employee, or employee under section 302 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (who are not FERS RAE or FERS FRAE employees or Members, as defined under § 841.103 of this part), is seven and one-half percent of basic pay, minus the percent of tax which is (or would be) in effect for the payment, for the employee cost of social security.
(c) After December 31, 2012, the rate of employee deductions from basic pay for—
(1) A FERS RAE employee, Member, or Congressional employee is nine and three-tenths percent of basic pay, minus the percent of tax which is (or would be) in effect for the payment, for the employee cost of social security.
(2) A FERS RAE law enforcement officer, firefighter, nuclear materials courier, customs and border protection officer, air traffic controller, member of the Supreme Court Police, or employee under section 302 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1964 for Certain Employees is nine and eight-tenths percent of basic pay, minus the percent of tax which is (or would be) in effect for the payment, for the employee cost of social security.
(d) After December 31, 2013, the rate of employee deductions from basic pay for—
(1) FERS FRAE employee, Member, or Congressional employee is ten and six-tenths percent basic pay, minus the percent of tax which is (or would be) in effect for the payment, for the employee cost of social security.
(2) A FERS FRAE law enforcement officer, firefighter, nuclear materials courier, customs and border protection officer, air traffic controller, member of the Supreme Court Police, or employee under section 302 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1964 for Certain Employees is eleven and one-tenth percent of basic pay, minus the percent of tax which is (or would be) in effect
for the payment, for the employee cost of social security.
(e) Employee deductions will be at the rate in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section as if social security deductions were being made even if social security deductions have ceased because of the amount of earnings during the year, or are not made for any other reason.
[88 FR 31468, May 17, 2023]
§ 841.504
Agency responsibilities.
(a) Each employing agency is required to contribute the total amount of the normal cost percentage for each category of its employees, determined under § 841.413 of this part, to the Fund.
(b) Each employing agency must withhold the appropriate amount of employee deductions from the basic pay paid each covered employee for each pay period. No employee deduction is due if an employee receives no basic pay for a pay period.
(c) An employing agency must record the appropriate amount of employee deductions on an individual retirement record maintained for each employee in the manner prescribed by OPM.
(d) When an employee separates from Federal service or transfers to another agency, or transfers to a position in which he or she is not covered by FERS, the agency must close the employee's Individual Retirement Record (IRR) and forward it to OPM within the time standards prescribed by OPM. However, if an employee transfers to another position covered under FERS—
(1) Within the same agency, and
(2) To a position serviced by another payroll office, the agency may, in lieu of forwarding an IRR to OPM at the time of the intra-agency transfer, record the transfer for future IRR certification in an internal automated system of records.
(e) An agency must maintain payroll systems and records in such manner as to permit accurate and timely reporting to OPM, in the manner prescribed by OPM.
(f) An agency must report the employee deduction and agency contribution amounts for each pay period in the manner prescribed by OPM.
(g) An agency must make such other reports of the normal cost, employee deductions and Government contributions amounts as are prescribed and in the manner prescribed by OPM.
(h) An agency must remit in full the total amount of normal cost (which includes both employee deductions and Government contributions), so that payment is received by the Fund on the day of payment to the employee of the basic pay from which the employee deductions were made.
(i) Upon the death of an employee whose tour of duty is less than full time, the employing agency must certify to OPM—
(1) The number of hours that the employee was entitled to basic pay (whether in a duty or paid-leave status) in the 52-week work year immediately preceding the end of the last pay period in which the employee was in a pay status; and
(2) If the employee's tour of duty was part time (regularly scheduled), the number of hours of work in the employee's tour of duty.
[52 FR 2057, Jan. 16, 1987, and 52 FR 25196, July 6, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 16535, May 10, 1988; 65 FR 21119, Apr. 20, 2000]
§ 841.505
Correction of error.
(a) When it is determined that an agency has paid less than the correct total amount of the normal cost for any or all of its current or past employees, for any reason whatsoever, including but not limited to, coverage decisions, correction of the percentage applicable or of the amount of basic pay, or additional payment of basic pay, the agency must pay the total additional amount payable under 5 U.S.C. 8423 and subpart D of the this part to the Fund.
(b) The agency withholds the appropriate employee deduction from any payment of additional basic pay which is part of, or the result of, the corrective action.
(c) The payment to the Fund described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made as soon as possible, but not later than provided by standards established by OPM, regardless of whether or when the portion which should have been deducted from employee basic pay is recovered by the agency.
(d) Any portion of the payment to the Fund described in paragraph (a) of this section which should have been deducted, but was not, from employee basic pay constitutes an overpayment of pay, subject to collection by the agency from the employee, unless waived under applicable authority such as 5 U.S.C. 5584.
(e) Corrections and the related agency payments and employee deductions will be reported to OPM in the manner prescribed by OPM.
§ 841.506
Effect of part 772 of this chapter on FERS payments.
(a)
Agency notification to OPM.
(1) When it is determined that a FERS employee is to be given interim relief under 5 U.S.C. 7701(b)(2)(A), the employing agency must notify OPM of the effective date of the interim appointment under § 772.102 of this chapter. The notice must specify that the appointment is required by the
Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989.
(2) When the MSPB initial decision cancelling the employee's separation becomes final, when the Board issues a final order cancelling the retiree's separation, or when the agency agrees to cancel the separation, the employing agency must notify OPM of the date the interim appointment ends and request the amount of the erroneous payment to be recovered under § 550.805(e) of this chapter from any back pay adjustment to which the employee may be entitled.
(b)
Employee deductions and normal cost percentage.
For the duration of the appointment, the agency will withhold the appropriate employee deduction and contribute the total amount of the normal cost percentage for the employee as prescribed by OPM. If and when a separation action is cancelled, the agency must make the corrections specified under § 841.507 of this subpart.
[57 FR 3714, Jan. 31, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 48273, Sept. 15, 1993]
§ 841.507
Correction of unjustified or unwarranted personnel action.
(a) When an “appropriate authority” determines that there has been an “unjustified or unwarranted personnel action” as these terms are defined in subpart H of part 550 of this title, the employing agency will pay the Fund the amount of the normal cost percentage of the basic pay included in back pay. The normal cost percentage owed the Fund is computed on the amount of gross basic pay without regard to deductions described in § 550.805(e) of this chapter for other amounts earned or erroneous payments received.
(b) The agency will withhold the appropriate employee deductions from the amount of basic pay included in gross back pay giving due regard to deductions described in § 550.805(e) of this chapter.
(c) The payment to the Fund described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made within the time period established by OPM standards.
(d)(1) Any FERS benefits—lump-sum payments or annuity benefits—paid based on a separation that is later cancelled are considered erroneous payments that must be repaid to OPM. Agencies must deduct such payments from any back pay adjustment to which the employee may be entitled as required by 5 CFR 550.805(e).
(2) Amounts recovered from back pay will not be subject to waiver consideration under 5 U.S.C. 8470(b). If there is no back pay, or the back pay is insufficient to recover the entire erroneous payment, the employee may request that OPM waive recovery of the uncollected portion of the overpayment. If waiver is not granted, the employee must repay the erroneous payment.
[52 FR 2057, Jan. 16, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 3714, Jan. 31, 1992; 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993]
§ 841.508
Effective date.
The employee deductions specified in § 841.503 are effective on the later of the first day of the first pay period beginning in 1987 or the first day an employee is covered by FERS.
[52 FR 2057, Jan. 16, 1987. Redesignated at 57 FR 3714, Jan. 31, 1992]

# Subpart F—Computation of Interest

# Source:
52 FR 12132, Apr. 15, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.601
Purpose.
This subpart regulates the computation of interest under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS).
§ 841.602
Definitions.
Contributions
or
deductions
means the amounts deducted from an employee's pay or deposited as the employee's share of the cost of FERS.
Individual Retirement Record
means the record of individual retirement deductions required by § 841.504.
Last year of service
means the calendar year in which deductions stop on the Individual Retirement Record under consideration.
Unexpended balance
means the unrefunded amount consisting of—
(a) Retirement deductions made from the basic pay of an employee under subpart E of part 841 of this chapter;
(b) Amounts deposited by an employee for periods of service (including military service) for which—
(1) No retirement deductions were made; or
(2) Deductions were refunded to the employee; and
(c) Interest compounded annually on the deductions and deposits at a rate which, for any calendar year, will be equal to the overall average yield to the Civil Service Retirement Fund during the preceding fiscal year from all obligations purchased by the Secretary of the Treasury during that fiscal year under section 8348(c), (d), and (e) of title 5, United States Code, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. Interest on deductions and deposits does not include interest—
(1) If the service covered by the deductions totals 1 year or less; or
(2) For a fractional part of a month in the total service.
Year of the computation
means the calendar year when the unexpended balance is being computed.
§ 841.603
Rate of interest.
For calendar year 1985 and for each subsequent calendar year, OPM will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
to notify the public of the interest rate that will be in effect during that calendar year.
§ 841.604
Interest on service credit deposits.
(a) Interest on civilian service credit deposits is computed under § 842.305 of this chapter.
(b) Interest on military service credit deposits is computed under § 842.307 of this chapter.
(c) In the case of a retirement coverage error that was corrected under part 839 (pertaining to errors that lasted for at least 3 years of service after December 31, 1986) in which:
(1) A CSRS service credit deposit was made; and
(2) There is a subsequent retroactive change to FERS, the excess of the amount of the CSRS civilian or military service credit deposit over the FERS civilian or military deposit, together with interest computed under § 842.305 of this chapter, shall be paid to the employee or annuitant. In the case of a deceased employee or annuitant, payment is made to the individual entitled to lump-sum benefits under subpart B of part 843 of this chapter.
[52 FR 12132, Apr. 15, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32155, July 21, 1992; 66 FR 15618, Mar. 19, 2001]
§ 841.605
Interest included in the unexpended balance.
(a) Interest on each Individual Retirement Record is computed separately.
(b) For determining the amount of interest in the unexpended balance when none of the employee deductions have been returned (e.g., employee refunds or at the time of retirement), the amount of interest in the unexpended balance equals the sum of the amounts of interest applicable to each calendar year's deductions. The amount of interest on each calendar year's deductions equals the sum of—
(1) For the calendar year in which the deductions were taken—
(i) Except during the last year of service, the amount of the employee's deductions for that calendar year times the rate of interest set under § 841.603 for that calendar year times the fraction whose numerator is the number of full months when deductions were withheld and whose denominator is 24;
(ii) During the last year of service, the amount of the employee's deductions for that year times the rate of interest set under § 841.603 for that year times the fraction—
(A) Whose numerator equals the sum of—
(
1
) One half times the number of months (fractional months rounded up) of that year during which the employee was employed;
(
2
) One for each full month of that year after the employee's service terminated; and
(B) Whose denominator is 12.
(2) For each calendar year after the year when the deductions were withheld but before the calendar year of the computation, the amount of the employee's deductions plus interest for prior years, times the rate of interest set under § 841.603 for that year; and
(3) For the year of the computation—
(i) If it is not the same calendar year that the deductions were withheld, the amount of the employee's deductions plus interest for prior years, times the rate of interest set under § 841.603 for that year times the fraction whose numerator is the number of full months that have been completed in the year of the computation and whose denominator is 12; or
(ii) If it is the same calendar year that the deductions were withheld, the amount of the employee's deductions for that year times the rate of interest set under § 841.603 for that year times the fraction—
(A) Whose numerator equals the sum of—
(
1
) One half times the number of months (fractional months rounded up) of that year during which the employee was employed;
(
2
) One for each full month of that year after the employee's service terminated; and
(B) Whose denominator is 12.
(c)(1) For adding interest to the unexpended balance after retirement, the unexpended balance including interest computed under paragraph (b) of this section is computed as of the time of retirement.
(2) Each month after retirement, the unexpended balance is reduced by the amount of annuity paid and interest is added to the remaining portion at the rate computed as follows:
(i) Add one to the interest rate under § 841.603 for the current year.
(ii) Raise the sum produced under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section to the
1/12
power.
(iii) Subtract one from the result of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to produce the interest rate for the month.
(d)(1) Interest on payments of the unexpended balance will be paid for the month unless the payment has been authorized before the 5th workday before the end of the month (excluding the 31st day of 31-day months).
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, payment is authorized when the person with authority to approve the claim approves payment.
§ 841.606
Interest on survivor reduction deposits.
Interest on deposits under subpart F of part 842 of this chapter is compounded annually and accrued monthly.
(a) The initial interest on each monthly difference between the reduced annuity rate and the annuity rate actually paid equals the amount of the monthly difference times the difference between—
(1) One and six tenths raised to the power whose numerator is the number of months between the date when the monthly difference in annuity rates occurred and the date when the initial interest is computed and whose denominator is 12; and
(2) One.
(b) The total initial interest due is the sum of all of the initial interest on each monthly difference computed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Additional interest on any uncollected balance will be compounded annually and accrued monthly. The additional interest due each month equals the remaining balance due times the difference between—
(1) One and six tenths raised to the
1/12
power; and
(2) One.
§ 841.607
Interest on overpayment debts.
Interest on overpayment debts is computed under § 845.205(b).

# Subpart G—Cost-of-Living Adjustments

# Source:
55 FR 14229, Apr. 17, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.701
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to regulate computation of cost-of-living adjustments (COLA's) for basic benefits under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS).
(b) This subpart provides the methodology for—
(1) Computing COLA's on each type of FERS basic benefit subject to COLA's; and
(2) Computing COLA's on annuities partially computed under FERS and partially computed under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS).
(c) COLA's on children's annuities are not covered by this subpart because COLA's on children's annuities are computed under CSRS rules.
§ 841.702
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Annuity supplement
means the benefit under subpart E of part 842 of this chapter. An
annuity supplement
is only payable to retirees.
Basic annuity
means the benefits computed under subpart D of part 842 of this chapter and payable to retirees.
Basic employee death benefit
means the basic employee death benefit as defined in § 843.102 of this chapter.
Beneficiary of insurable interest annuity
means a person receiving a recurring benefit under FERS that is payable (after the employee's, Members, or retiree's death) to a person designated to receive such an annuity under § 842.605 of this chapter.
COLA
means a cost-of-living adjustment.
Combined CSRS/FERS annuity
means the recurring benefit with a CSRS component and a FERS component. A “combined CSRS/FERS annuity” is only payable to a retiree who as an employee elected to transfer to FERS under part 846 of this chapter, who at the time of transfer had at least 5 years of service creditable under CSRS (excluding service that was subject to both social security and partial CSRS deductions), and who was covered by FERS for at least 1 month.
CSRS
means the Civil Service Retirement System as described in subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
CSRS component
means the portion of a combined CSRS/FERS annuity that is computed under CSRS rules.
Current spouse annuity
means a current spouse annuity as defined in § 842.602 of this chapter.
Disability retiree
means a retiree who retired under part 844 of this chapter.
Effective date
means the date annuities increased by a COLA begin to accrue at the higher rate.
FERS
means the Federal Employees Retirement System as defined in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
FERS component
means the portion of a combined CSRS/FERS annuity computed under FERS rules.
Former spouse annuity
means a former spouse annuity as defined in § 842.602 of this chapter.
Initial monthly rate
means the monthly annuity rate that a retiree (other than a disability retiree) is entitled to receive at the time of retirement (as defined in § 842.602 of this chapter).
Percentage change
means the percent change in the price index as defined in section 8462(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code.
Retiree
means a retiree as defined in § 842.602 of this chapter.
Survivor
means a person receiving a current spouse annuity or a former spouse annuity, or the beneficiary of an insurable interest annuity. As used in this subpart, “survivor” does not include a child annuitant.
Survivor supplement
means the recurring benefit payable to a survivor under § 843.308 of this chapter.
§ 841.703
Increases on basic annuities and survivor annuities.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 841.704, 841.706, and 841.707, and paragraph (e) of this section, COLA's on basic annuities and survivor annuities are the greater of—
(1) One dollar per month; or
(2)(i) If the percentage change is less than 2 percent, the percentage change;
(ii) If the percentage change is at least 2 percent and not greater than 3 percent, 2 percent; and
(iii) If the percentage change exceeds 3 percent, 1 percentage point less than the percentage change.
(b) After survivor annuities commence, they are subject to COLA's computed under paragraph (a) of this section, even if they are based on a basic employee annuity that includes a CSRS component.
(c) COLA's apply to basic annuities (not to annuity supplements), survivor annuities, and survivor supplements.
(d) COLA's do not apply for annuitants who are under age 62 as of the effective date, except—
(1) Survivors;
(2) Disability retirees (other than disability retirees whose benefits is based on 60% of high-3 average salary);
(3) Retirees who retired under § 842.208 of this chapter (the special provisions for law enforcement officers and firefighters);
(4) Retirees who retired under § 842.207 of this chapter (the special provision for air traffic controllers);
(5) Retirees who retired under § 842.210 of this chapter (the special provision for military reserve technicians who ceased satisfying the requirements of their position) due to a disability.
(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, COLA's are not payable to disability retirees during the first year.
(2) COLA's are payable to disability retirees during the first year if the annuity rate payable is the retiree's earned benefit or the annuity is redetermined because the retiree has reached age 62.
(3) After the first year, both the disability benefit and the social security offset (it any) are increased by COLA's. Disability retirees' earned benefits also increase with COLA's, even when earned benefits are not paid. After application of the COLA, the greater of the increased 40 percent benefit offset by social security or the increased earned benefit is paid until the annuity is redetermined at age 62. After age 62, the redetermined annuity is paid.
(f) COLA's are payable to retirees and survivors whose annuities commence before the effective date.
§ 841.704
Proration of COLA's.
(a) The full amounts of COLA's are payable on annuities having a commencing date more than 11 months before the effective date.
(b)(1) Prorated portions of COLA's are payable of annuities having a commencing date within 11 months before the effective date.
(2) Proration is based on the number of months (with any portion of a month counting as a month) between the annuity commencing date and the effective date.
(3) For survivors of deceased retirees, proration is determined by the date the annuity was first payable to the deceased retiree.
(4) Proration applied to the assume social security disability insurance benefit is based on the commencing date of the disability annuity, not the beginning of the social security disability benefit.
§ 841.705
Increases on basic employee death benefits.
(a) COLA's on the basic employee death benefit increase the $15,000 component by the percentage change.
(b) Recipients of the basic employee death benefit are entitled to COLA's if the employee or Member died on or after the effective date.
§ 841.706
Increases on combined CSRS/FERS annuities.
(a) COLA's on combined CSRS/FERS annuities are computed by increasing the CSRS component by the percentage change and the FERS component by the amount of COLA's under § 841.703(a).
(b) The initial monthly rate is computed by—
(1) Applying CSRS rules to CSRS service to obtain the annual rate of the self-only annuity (as defined in § 831.603 of this chapter) based on the CSRS service; then
(2) Applying FERS rules to FERS service to obtain the annual rate of annuity determined under § 842.403, § 842.405, § 842.406, or § 842.407 of this
chapter based on the FERS service; then
(3) Making any applicable FERS reductions for age and/or survivor benefits to the amounts computed under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section; then
(4) Dividing the sum of the reduced amounts computed under paragraph (b)(3) of this section by 12; then
(5) Dropping any cents.
(c) The initial monthly CSRS component is computed by—
(1) Applying CSRS rules to CSRS service to obtain the annual rate of the self-only annuity (as defined in § 831.603 of this chapter) based on the CSRS service; then
(2) Making any applicable FERS reductions for age and/or survivor benefits; then
(3) Dividing the annual amount by 12; then
(4) Dropping any cents.
(d) The initial monthly FERS component is computed by subtracting the initial monthly CSRS component from the initial monthly rate.
(e) A retiree who was covered under FERS for at least one month has a FERS component. If the amount of the FERS component as computed under paragraph (d) of this section is zero (because the CSRS component is equal to the monthly rate, leaving no balance for the FERS component), the FERS component is $1 per month. The retiree is due a full dollar increase on the FERS component with the next COLA. An employee with less than a month of FERS service has no FERS component and is not due any FERS COLA's.
(f) COLA's are determined by applying the appropriate increase to each component and rounding to the next lower dollar (each component must increase by at least one dollar if a COLA applies to each component) before adding them together for the new monthly amount payable.
§ 841.707
COLA's affecting computation of survivor supplements.
For purposes of computing the assumed CSRS annuity under § 843.308 of this chapter, the assumed CSRS annuity includes COLA's computed under CSRS rules.
§ 841.708
Special provisions affecting retired military reserve technicians.
(a) Military reserve technicians who retire as a result of a medical disability are excepted from the bar against COLA increases for retirees under age 62.
(b) Military reserve technicians have retired as a result of a medical disability if they retire under—
(1) Section 8451(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code (allowing retirement by military reserve technicians who are medically disabled for their positions); or
(2) Section 8456 of title 5, United States Code (allowing retirement by military reserve technicians who are not disabled for their positions and who are not eligible under the special military technician discontinued service provisions (section 8414(c)) but who are medically disqualified for military service or the rank required to hold their positions).
(c)(1) Military reserve technicians have not retired as a result of a medical disability if they retire under section 8414(c) of title 5, United States Code (allowing retirement by military reserve technicians who may not be disabled for their positions, but are medically or nonmedically disqualified for military service or the rank required to hold the position, and who are at least age 50 with 25 years of service), unless they provide OPM official documentation showing that their disqualification was for medical reasons.
(2) When OPM receives no information about the reason for the disqualification of a military reserve technician retiring under section 8414(c) of title 5, United States Code, OPM will process the case assuming that the disqualification was for nonmedical reasons. OPM will inform these retirees that they will not receive COLA's until they reach age 62 unless they provide an official certification from the military showing that their disqualification was for medical reasons.

# Subpart H—Waiver of Benefits

# Source:
52 FR 2058, Jan. 16, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.801
Purpose.
This subpart regulates the statutory provision on waiver of annuity benefits under the Federal Employees' Retirement System.
§ 841.802
Definitions.
As used in this subpart—
Annuitant
means a person receiving or who is entitled and has made application to receive retirement or survivor benefits under subchapter II, IV, or V of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Annuity
means the gross monthly annuity rate payable before any authorized deductions (such as those for health benefits and life insurance premiums).
Qualifying court order
means a court order acceptable for processing as defined in § 838.103 of this chapter or a qualifying court order as defined in § 838.1003 of this chapter.
Waiver
means an annuitant's written request to forfeit a specified amount of annuity as described in this subpart.
[52 FR 2058, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 33598, July 29, 1992]
§ 841.803
Waiver of annuity.
(a) An annuitant may decline to accept all or any part of the amount of his or her annuity by a waiver signed and filed with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
(b) A waiver is effective the first day of the month following the month in which it is received in OPM, unless a later effective date is specified by the annuitant.
(c) A waiver remains in effect until revoked or changed by the annuitant in writing, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. The effective date of a revocation or change will be the first day of the month following the month in which the request to revoke or change is received in OPM, unless a later date is specified by the annuitant.
(d) The amount of annuity that is waived is forfeited during the period the waiver is in effect and cannot be recovered.
(e) An annuity which has a waiver in effect will not be increased by cost-of-living adjustments (COLA) authorized under 5 U.S.C. 8462. Upon cancellation of a waiver, the rate of annuity will be increased by any COLA authorized during the period a waiver was in effect.
(f) Upon the death of an annuitant with a waiver in effect, any survivor annuity payable will be authorized at the full rate of annuity as though the waiver had not been in effect, unless the survivor annuitant executes a waiver.
§ 841.804
Waivers and court orders.
The effect of a qualifying court order on a waiver is controlled by § 838.111(c) of this chapter.
[52 FR 2058, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 33598, July 29, 1992]
Subpart I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—State Income Tax Withholding

# Source:
52 FR 5432, Feb. 23, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 841.1001
Purpose.
This subpart regulates state income tax withholding from payments of basic benefits under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS).
§ 841.1002
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subchapter:
Agreement
means the Federal-State agreement contained in this subpart.
Annuitant
means an employee or Member retired, or a spouse, widow, or widower receiving survivor benefits, under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Effective date
means, with respect to a request or revocation, that the request or revocation will be reflected in payments authorized after that date, and before the next request or revocation is implemented.
Fund
means the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund as established and described in section 8348 of title 5, United States Code.
Income tax
and
State income tax
mean any form of tax for which, under a State statute, (a) collection is provided, either in imposing on employers generally the duty of withholding sums from the compensation of employees
and making returns of such sums to the State or by granting to employers generally the authority to withhold sums from the compensation of employees, if any employee voluntarily elects to have such sums withheld; and (b) the duty to withhold generally is imposed, or the authority to withhold generally is granted, with respect to the compensation of employees who are residents of the State.
Net recurring payment
means the amount of annuity or survivors benefits (not recurring interim payments made while a claim is pending adjudication) payable to the annuitant on a monthly basis less the amounts currently being deducted for health benefits, Medicare, life insurance, Federal income tax, overpayment of annuity, indebtedness to the Government, voluntary allotments, waivers, or being paid to a third party or a court officer in compliance with a court order or decree.
Net withholding
means the amount of State income tax deductions withheld during the previous calendar quarter as a result of requests which designated the State as payee, less similar deductions taken from prior payments which are cancelled in the previous calendar quarter.
Proper State Official
means a State officer authorized to bind the State contractually in matters relating to tax administration.
Received
means, in respect to the magnetic tape containing requests and revocations, received at the special mailing address established by OPM for income tax requests, or, for those items not so received, received at the OPM data processing center charged with processing requests.
Requests
means, in regard to a request for tax withholdings, a change in the amount withheld, or revocation of a prior request, a written submission from an annuitant in a format acceptable to the State which provides the annuitant's name, FERS claim number, Social Security identification number, address, the amount to be withheld and the State to which payment is to be made, which is signed by the annuitant or, in the case of incompetence, his or her representative payee.
State
means a State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 841.1003
Federal-State agreements.
OPM will enter into an agreement with any State within 120 days of an application for agreement from the proper State official. The terms of the standard agreement will be §§ 841.1004 through 841.1007 of this subpart. OPM and the State may agree to additional terms and provisions, insofar as those additional terms and provisions do not contradict or otherwise limit the terms of the standard agreement.
§ 841.1004
OPM responsibilities.
OPM will, in performance of this agreement:
(a) Process the magnetic tape containing State tax transactions against the annuity roll once a month at the time monthly recurring payments are prepared for the United States Treasury Department. Errors that are identified will not be processed into the file, and will be identified and returned to the State for resolution via the monthly error report. Collections of State income tax will continue in effect until the State requesting the initial action supplies either a valid revocation or change. The magnetic tape must be received 35 days prior to the date of the check in which the transactions are to be effective. For example, withholding transactions for the July 1 check must be received 5 days prior to June 1. If the magnetic tape submitted by the State cannot be read, OPM will notify the State of this fact, and if a satisfactory replacement can be supplied in time for monthly processing, it will be processed.
(b) Deduct from the regular, recurring annuity payments of an annuitant the amount he or she has so requested to be withheld, provided that:
(1) The amount of the request is an even dollar amount, not less than Five Dollars nor more than the net recurring amount. The State may set any even dollar amount above Five Dollars as a minimum withholding amount.
(2) The annuitant has not designated more than one other State for withholding purposes within the calendar year. The State can set any limit on
the number of changes an annuitant may make in the amount to be withheld.
(c) Retain the amounts withheld in the Fund until payment is due.
(d) Pay the net withholding to the State on the last day of the first month following each calendar quarter.
(e) Make the following reports:
(1) A monthly report which will include all the State tax withholdings, cancellations and adjustments for the month, and also each request OPM was not able to process, with an explanation, in coded format, of the reason for rejection.
(2) A quarterly report which will include State, State address, quarterly withholdings, quarterly cancellations and adjustments, quarterly net withholdings and year-to-date amounts. Where cancelled or adjusted payments were made in a previous year, OPM shall append a listing of the cancelled or adjusted payments which shows the date and amount of each cancelled or adjusted tax withholding, and the name and Social Security identification number of the annuitant from whom it was withheld. If either party terminates the agreement and the amount of cancelled or adjusted deductions exceeds the amount withheld for the final quarter, then the quarterly report shall show the amount to be refunded to OPM and the address to which payment should be made.
(3) An annual summary report which contains the name, Social Security identification number, and total amount withheld from non-cancelled payments during the previous calendar year, for each annuitant who requested tax withholding payable to the State. In the event the annuitant had State income tax withholding in effect for more than one State in that calendar year, the report will show only the amount withheld for the State receiving the report.
(4) An annual report to each annuitant for whom State income taxes were withheld giving the amount of withholding paid to the State during the calendar year.
§ 841.1005
State responsibilities.
The State will, in performance of this agreement:
(a) Accept requests and revocations from annuitants who have designated that State income tax deductions will go to the State.
(b) Convert these requests on a monthly basis to a machine-readable magnetic tape using specifications received from OPM, and forward that tape to OPM for processing.
(c) Inform annuitants whose tax requests are rejected by OPM that the request was so rejected and of the reason why it was so rejected.
(d) Recognize that, to the extent not prohibited by State laws, records maintained by the State relating to this program are considered jointly maintained by OPM and are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). Accordingly, the States will maintain such records in accordance with that statute and OPM's implementing regulations at 5 CFR part 297.
(e) Respond to requests of annuitants for information and advice in regard to State income tax withholding.
(f) Credit the amounts withheld from FERS annuities to the State tax liability of the respective annuitants, and, subject to applicable provisions of State law to the contrary, refund any balance over and above that liability to the annuitant, unless he or she should request otherwise.
(g) Surrender all tax withholding requests to OPM when this agreement is terminated or when the documents are not otherwise needed for this State tax withholding program.
(h) Allow OPM, the Comptroller General or any of their duly authorized representatives access to, and the right to examine, all records, books, papers or documents related to the processing of requests for State income tax withholding from FERS annuities.
§ 841.1006
Additional provisions.
These additional provisions are also binding on the State and OPM:
(a) A request or revocation is effective when processed by OPM. OPM will process each request by the first day of the second month following the month in which it is received, but incurs no liability or indebtedness by its failure to do so.
(b) Any amount deducted from an annuity payment and paid to the State as
a result of a request is deemed properly paid, unless the annuity payment itself is cancelled.
(c) OPM will provide the State with the information necessary to properly process a request for State income tax withholding.
(d) If the State is paid withholding which is contrary to the terms of the annuitant's request, the State is liable to the annuitant for the amount improperly withheld, and subject to account verification from OPM, agrees to pay that amount to the annuitant on demand.
(e) In the case of a dispute amount in any of the reports described and authorized by this agreement, the Associate Director will issue an accounting. If the State finds this accounting unacceptable, it may then and only then pursue such remedies as are otherwise available.
(f) If a State received an overpayment of monies properly belonging to the Fund, OPM will offset the overpayment from a future payment due the State. If there are no further payments due the State, OPM will inform the State in writing of the amount due. Within 60 days of the date of receipt of that communication that State will make payment of the amount due.
§ 841.1007
Agreement modification and termination.
This agreement may be modified or terminated in the following manner:
(a) Either party may suggest a modification of non-regulatory provisions of the agreement in writing to the other party. The other party must accept or reject the modification within 60 calendar days of the date of the suggestion.
(b) The agreement may be terminated by either party on 60 calendar days written notice.
(c) OPM may modify this agreement unilaterally through the rule making process described in sections 553, 1103, and 1105 of title 5, United States Code.
Pt. 842

# PART 842—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM—BASIC ANNUITY

# Subpart A—Coverage
Sec.
842.101
Purpose and scope.
842.102
Definitions.
842.103
General.
842.104
Statutory exclusions.
842.105
Regulatory exclusions.
842.106
Elections of retirement coverage under the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995.
842.107
Employees covered under the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997.
842.108
Employees covered under the District of Columbia Courts and Justice Technical Corrections Act of 1998.
842.109
Continuation of coverage for former Federal employees of the Civilian Marksmanship Program.
842.110
Continuation of coverage for food service employees of the House of Representatives or the Senate Restaurants.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
842.201
Purpose.
842.202
Definitions.
842.203
General eligibility requirement.
842.204
Immediate voluntary retirement—basic age and service requirements.
842.206
Involuntary retirement.
842.207
Air traffic controllers.
842.208
Firefighters, customs and border protection officers, law enforcement officers, members of the Capitol or Supreme Court Police, and nuclear materials couriers.
842.209
Members of Congress.
842.210
Military reserve technicians.
842.211
Senior Executive Service, Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service, and Senior Cryptologic Executive Service.
842.212
Deferred retirement.
842.213
Voluntary early retirement-substantial delayering, reorganization, reduction in force, transfer of function, or other workforce restructuring.

# Subpart C—Credit for Service
842.301
Purpose.
842.302
Definitions.
842.303
General.
842.304
Civilian service.
842.305
Deposits for civilian service.
842.306
Military service.
842.307
Deposits for military service.
842.308
Refunds of deductions and service credit deposits made before becoming subject to FERS.
842.309
Contract service.
842.310
Service not creditable because of an election under part 847 of this chapter.

# Subpart D—Computations
842.401
Purpose.
842.402
Definitions.
842.403
Computation of basic annuity.
842.404
Reductions in basic annuity.
842.405
Air traffic controllers, firefighters, and law enforcement officers.
842.406
Members of Congress and Congressional employees.
842.407
Proration of annuity for part-time service.

# Subpart E—Annuity Supplement
842.501
Purpose.
842.502
Definitions.
842.503
Eligibility for annuity supplement.
842.504
Amount of annuity supplement.
842.505
Reduction in annuity supplement because of excess earnings.

# Subpart F—Survivor Elections
842.601
Purpose.
842.602
Definitions.
842.603
Election at time of retirement of a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity.
842.604
Election at time of retirement of a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity.
842.605
Election of insurable interest rate.
842.606
Election of a self-only annuity or a one-half reduced annuity by married employees and Members.
842.607
Waiver of spousal consent requirement.
842.608
Changes of election before final adjudication.
842.609
[Reserved]
842.610
Changes of election after final adjudication.
842.611
Post-retirement election of a fully reduced annuity or one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity.
842.612
Post-retirement election of a fully reduced annuity or one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity.
842.613
Division of a survivor annuity.
842.614
Computation of partial annuity reduction.
842.615
Deposits required.
842.616
Publication of present value factors.

# Subpart G—Alternative Forms of Annuities
842.701
Purpose.
842.702
Definitions.
842.703
Eligibility.
842.704
Election requirements.
842.705
Alternative forms of annuities available.
842.706
Computation of alternative form of annuity.
842.707
Partial deferred payment of the lump-sum credit if annuity commences after January 3, 1988, and before October 1, 1989.
842.708
Partial deferred payment of the lump-sum credit if annuity commences after December 2, 1989, and before October 1, 1995.

# Subpart H—Law Enforcement Officers, Firefighters, and Air Traffic Controllers
842.801
Applicability and purpose.
842.802
Definitions.
842.803
Conditions for coverage.
842.804
Evidence.
842.805
Withholdings and contributions.
842.806
Mandatory separation.
842.807
Review of decisions.
842.808
Oversight of coverage determinations.
842.809
Transitional provisions.

# Regulations Pertaining to Noncodified Statutes
842.810
Elections to be deemed a law enforcement officer for retirement purposes by certain police officers employed by the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (MWAA).
842.811
Deposits for second-level supervisory air traffic controller service performed before February 10, 2004.

# Subpart I—Nuclear Materials Couriers
842.901
Applicability and purpose.
842.902
Definitions.
842.903
Conditions for coverage in primary positions.
842.904
Conditions for coverage in secondary positions.
842.905
Evidence.
842.906
Requests from individuals.
842.907
Withholding and contributions.
842.908
Mandatory separation.
842.909
Review of decisions.
842.910
Oversight of coverage determinations.

# Subpart J—Customs and Border Protection Officers
842.1001
Applicability and purpose.
842.1002
Definitions.
842.1003
Conditions for coverage.
842.1004
Evidence.
842.1005
Withholding and contributions.
842.1006
Mandatory separation.
842.1007
Review of decisions.
842.1008
Oversight of coverage determinations.
842.1009
Elections of Retirement Coverage, exclusions from retirement coverage, and proportional annuity computations.

# Subpart K—Peace Corps
842.1101
Purpose.
842.1102
Allowable service.
842.1103
Deposits for service.
842.1104
Additional interest due to administrative error.

# Subpart L—Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA)
842.1201
Purpose.
842.1202
Allowable service.
842.1203
Deposits for service.
842.1204
Additional interest due to administrative error.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8461(g); Secs. 842.104 and 842.106 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8461(n); Sec. 842.104 also issued under Secs. 3 and 7(c) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419; Sec. 842.105 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8402(c)(1) and 7701(b)(2); Sec. 842.106 also issued under Sec. 102(e) of Pub. L. 104-8, 109 Stat. 102, as amended by Sec. 153 of Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321-102; Sec. 842.107 also issued under Secs. 11202(f), 11232(e), and 11246(b) of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, and Sec. 7(b) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419; Sec. 842.108 also issued under Sec. 7(e) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419; Sec. 842.109 also issued under Sec. 1622(b) of Pub. L. 104-106, 110 Stat. 515; Sec. 842.110 also issued under Sec. 111 of Pub. L. 99-500, 100 Stat. 1783, and Sec. 111 of Pub. L. 99-591, 100 Stat. 3341-348, and also Sec. 1 of Pub. L. 110-279, 122 Stat. 2602, as amended by Sec. 1(a) of Pub. L. 116-21, 133 Stat. 903; Sec. 842.208 also issued under Sec. 535(d) of Title V of Division E of Pub. L. 110-161, 121 Stat. 2042; Sec. 842.213 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8414(b)(1)(B) and Sec. 1313(b)(5) of Pub. L. 107-296, 116 Stat. 2135; Secs. 842.304 and 842.305 also issued under Sec. 321(f) of Pub. L. 107-228, 116 Stat. 1383; Secs. 842.604 and 842.611 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8417; Sec. 842.607 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8416 and 8417; Sec. 842.614 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8419; Sec. 842.615 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8418; Sec. 842.703 also issued under Sec. 7001(a)(4) of Pub. L. 101-508, 104 Stat. 1388; Sec. 842.707 also issued under Sec. 6001 of Pub. L. 100-203, 101 Stat. 1300; Sec. 842.708 also issued under Sec. 4005 of Pub. L. 101-239, 103 Stat. 2106, and Sec. 7001 of Pub. L. 101-508, 104 Stat. 1388; Subpart H also issued under 5 U.S.C. 1104; Sec. 842.810 also issued under Sec. 636 of Appendix C to Pub. L. 106-554 at 114 Stat. 2763A-164; Sec. 842.811 also issued under Sec. 226(c)(2) of Pub. Law 108-176, 117 Stat. 2529; Subpart J also issued under Sec. 535(d) of Title V of Division E of Pub. L. 110-161, 121 Stat. 2042; Pub. L. 115-352, 132 Stat. 5067 (5 U.S.C. 101); Sec. 5001 of Pub. L. 112-96 at 126 Stat. 199; 5 U.S.C. 8401; 5 U.S.C. 8415.

# Subpart A—Coverage

# Source:
51 FR 47197, Dec. 31, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.101
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart contains regulations concerning automatic coverage under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). References to FERS coverage in this subpart are to automatic, as opposed to elective, FERS coverage.
(b) Part 846 of this chapter contains regulations concerning elective FERS coverage. FERS elections are available under limited circumstances to employees not subject to automatic FERS coverage.
[59 FR 64282, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 842.102
Definitions.
In this subpart—
CSRS
means the Civil Service Retirement System as described in subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code;
Employee
means the following individuals listed in 5 U.S.C. 8401(11) whose service is employment for the purposes of title II of the Social Security Act and chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954:
(a) An employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105;
(b) A U.S. Commissioner whose total pay for services performed as Commissioner is not less than $3,000 in each of the last three consecutive calendar years ending after December 31, 1954;
(c) An individual employed by a county committee established under 16 U.S.C. 590h(b);
(d) An individual employed by Gallaudet College;
(e) An individual appointed to a position on the office staff of a former President under section 1(b) of the “Act of August 25, 1958” (72 Stat 838);
(f) An alien (1) who was previously employed by the Government; (2) who is employed full time by a foreign government to protect or further the interests of the United States during an interruption of diplomatic or consular relations; and (3) for whose services reimbursement is made to the foreign government by the United States;
(g) A Congressional employee as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2107, including a temporary Congressional employee and an employee of the Congressional Budget Office; and
(h) The following individuals are excluded from the definition of “employee” in 5 U.S.C. 8401 (11):
(1) A justice or judge of the United States as defined by 28 U.S.C. 451;
(2) A temporary employee of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts or of a court named by 28 U.S.C. 610;
(3) A construction employee or other temporary, part-time, or intermittent employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority;
(4) A student employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 5351;
(5) Teachers in dependents' schools of the Department of Defense in overseas areas with respect to Federal employment, other than teaching, performed during a recess period between two school years;
(6) An individual subject to another retirement system for Government employees (other than an employee of the United States Park Police, or the United States Secret Service) any of whose civilian employment after December 31, 1983, is employment subject to social security; and
(7) An individual excluded by OPM regulation in § 842.105.
FERS
means the Federal Employees Retirement System as described in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Member
has the same meaning provided in 5 U.S.C. 2106, except that the term does not include an individual who irrevocably elects, by written notice to the official by whom such individual is paid, not to participate in FERS.
NAF employee
means an employee of an instrumentality described in section 2105(c) of title 5, United States Code.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Social security
means coverage under the Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) programs of the Social Security Act.
[51 FR 47197, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 25197, July 6, 1987; 56 FR 4931, Feb. 7, 1991]
§ 842.103
General.
To be covered under FERS, an individual must:
(a) Be an employee, Member, or specifically covered by another provision of law;
(b) Be covered by social security;
(c) Have retirement deductions withheld from pay and have agency contributions made; and
(d) Be paid based on units of time.
Except as provided in § 842.104 and as excluded by § 842.105, an employee or Member is covered by FERS.
§ 842.104
Statutory exclusions.
(a)
Lack of social security coverage.
An individual not covered by social security (title II of the Social Security Act and chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954), including an individual covered by full CSRS (and thereby excluded from social security coverage), is excluded from FERS coverage.
(b)
Senior officials subject to social security coverage despite continuous service.
An individual who has served without a break in service of more than 365 days since December 31, 1983, in one or more of the following positions is excluded from FERS coverage.
(1) The Vice President;
(2) A Member of Congress;
(3) A non-SES appointee to a position listed in 5 U.S.C. 5312 through 5317;
(4) A Senior Executive Service or Senior Foreign Service noncareer appointee; or
(5) An individual appointed by the President (or his designee) or the Vice President under section 105(a)(1), 107(a)(1), or (b)(1) of title 3, United States Code, to a position for which the maximum rate of basic pay payable is at or above the rate for Level V of the Executive Schedule.
(c)
Employees rehired after December 31, 1986, following a break in service.
An employee who is rehired after December 31, 1986, who has had a break in service and who, at the time of the last separation from the service, had at least 5 years of civilian service creditable under CSRS rules, any part of which was covered by CSRS or the Foreign Service Retirement System, is excluded from FERS coverage.
(d)
Employees who have not had a break in service ending after December 31,
1986.
An employee who has not had a break in service of more than 3 days ending after December 31, 1986, and who, as of December 31, 1986, had at least 5 years of credible civilian service under CSRS rules (even if none of this service was covered by CSRS), is excluded from FERS coverage.
(e)
Break in service.
For the purposes of paragraph (c) and (d) of this section, “break in service” means a separation from CSRS-covered service lasting at least 4 days, or a transfer or separation of less than 4 days when the employee becomes subject to automatic coverage under social security (title II of the Social Security Act and chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954).
(f)
Coverage under a retirement system for NAF employees.
An employee who has elected coverage under a retirement system for NAF employees in accordance with part 847 of this chapter is excluded from FERS coverage during that and all subsequent periods of service, including service as a reemployed annuitant.
(g)
Certain Federal employees who elect to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia.
(1) A former employee of the District of Columbia who is appointed in a Federal position by the Department of Justice, or by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency established by section 11233(a) of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, as amended by section 7(c) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, is excluded from FERS coverage beginning on the date of the Federal appointment, if the employee elects to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia under section 3 of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, and if the following conditions are met:
(i) The employee is hired by the Department of Justice or by the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency during the period beginning August 5, 1997, and ending 1 year after the date on which the Lorton Correctional Complex is closed, or 1 year after the date on which the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency assumes its duties, whichever is later; and
(ii) The employee elects to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia no later than June 1, 1999 or 60 days after the date of the Federal appointment, whichever is later.
(2) An individual's election to continue coverage under a retirement system for employees of the District of Columbia remains in effect until the individual separates from service with the Department of Justice or the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency.
[59 FR 64283, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 41720, Aug. 9, 1996; 64 FR 15289, Mar. 31, 1999]
§ 842.105
Regulatory exclusions.
(a) OPM is authorized in 5 U.S.C. 8402(c)(1) to “exclude from the operation of this chapter an employee or group of employees in or under an Executive agency, the United States Postal Service, or the Postal Rate Commission, whose employment is temporary or intermittent, except an employee whose employment is part-time career employment (as defined in section 3401(2)).” Therefore, under this authority, OPM is excluding the following:
(1) Employees serving under appointments limited to 1 year or less, unless such appointments meet the definition of provisional appointments contained in §§ 316.401 and 316.403 of this chapter; and
(2) Intermittent employees serving under other than career or career conditional appointments.
(b) When an employee who is covered by FERS moves to a position listed in paragraph (a) of this section without a break in service or after a separation of 3 days or less, his or her FERS coverage will continue, except in the case of an employee hired by the Census Bureau under a temporary, intermittent appointment to perform decennial census duties.
(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not deny FERS coverage to an employee who receives an interim appointment under § 772.102 of this chapter and was covered by FERS at the time of the separation for which interim relief is required.
[51 FR 47197, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 10143, Mar. 11, 1991; 57 FR 3714, Jan. 31, 1992; 63 FR 9402, Feb. 25, 1998]
§ 842.106
Elections of retirement coverage under the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995.
(a)
Who may elect
—(1)
General rule.
Any individual appointed by the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (the Authority) in a position not excluded from FERS coverage under § 842.105 may elect to be deemed a Federal employee for FERS purposes unless the employee has elected to participate in a retirement, health or life insurance program offered by the District of Columbia.
(2)
Exception.
A former Federal employee being appointed by the Authority on or after October 26, 1996, no more than 3 days (not counting District of Columbia holidays) after separation from Federal employment cannot elect to be deemed a Federal employee for FERS purposes unless the election was made before separation from Federal employment.
(b)
Procedure for making an election.
The Authority or the agency providing administrative support services to the Authority (Administrative Support Agency) must establish a procedure for notifying employees of their election rights and for accepting elections.
(c)
Time limit for making an election.
(1) An election under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be made within 30 days after the employee received the notice under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) The Authority or its Administrative Support Agency will waive the time limit under paragraph (c)(1) of this section upon a showing that—
(i) The employee was not advised of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it; or
(ii) Circumstances beyond the control of the employee prevented him or her from making a timely election and the employee thereafter acted with due diligence in making the election.
(d)
Effect of an election.
(1) An election under paragraph (a) of this section is effective on the commencing date of the employee's service with the Authority.
(2) An individual who makes an election under paragraph (a) of this section is ineligible, during the period of employment covered by that election, to participate in any retirement system for employees of the government of the District of Columbia.
(e)
Irrevocability.
An election under paragraph (a) of this section becomes irrevocable when received by the Authority or its Administrative Support Agency.
(f)
Employee deductions.
The Authority or its Administrative Support Agency must withhold, from the pay of an employee of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Assistance Authority who has elected to be deemed a Federal employee for FERS purposes, an amount equal to the percentage withheld from Federal employees' pay for periods of service covered by FERS and, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the amounts deducted from an employee's pay.
(g)
Employer contributions.
The District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Assistance Authority must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions required under FERS.
[61 FR 58459, Nov. 15, 1996]
§ 842.107
Employees covered under the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997.
The following categories of employees of the District of Columbia Government are deemed to be Federal employees for FERS purposes on and after October 1, 1997:
(a) Nonjudicial employees of the District of Columbia Courts;
(b) The District of Columbia Department of Corrections Trustee, authorized by section 11202 of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, and an employee of the Trustee if the Trustee or employee is a former Federal employee appointed with a break in service of 3 days or less;
(c) The District of Columbia Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee, authorized by section 11232 of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, as amended by section 7(b) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419,
and an employee of the Trustee, if the Trustee or employee is a former Federal employee appointed with a break in service of 3 days or less.
[62 FR 50997, Sept. 30, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15289, Mar. 31, 1999]
§ 842.108
Employees covered under the District of Columbia Courts and Justice Technical Corrections Act of 1998.
Employees of the Public Defender Service of the District of Columbia are deemed to be Federal employees for FERS purposes on and after April 1, 1999.
[64 FR 15289, Mar. 31, 1999]
§ 842.109
Continuation of coverage for former Federal employees of the Civilian Marksmanship Program.
(a) A Federal employee who was covered under FERS;
(1) Was employed by the Department of Defense to support the Civilian Marksmanship Program as of the day before the date of the transfer of the Program to the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety; and
(2) Was offered and accepted employment by the Corporation as part of the transition described in section 1612(d) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 517—remains covered by FERS during continuous employment with the Corporation unless the individual files an election under paragraph (c) of this section. Such a covered individual is treated as if he or she were a Federal employee for purposes of this part, and of any other part within this title relating to FERS. The individual is entitled to the benefits of, and is subject to all conditions under, FERS on the same basis as if the individual were an employee of the Federal Government.
(b) Cessation of employment with the Corporation for any period terminates eligibility for coverage under FERS during any subsequent employment by the Corporation.
(c) An individual described by paragraph (a) of this section may at any time file an election to terminate continued coverage under the Federal benefits described in § 1622(a) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 521. Such an election must be in writing and filed with the Corporation. It takes effect immediately when received by the Corporation. The election applies to any and all Federal benefits described by section 1622(a) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 521, and is irrevocable. The Corporation must transmit the election to OPM with the individual's retirement records.
(d) The Corporation must withhold from the pay of an individual described by paragraph (a) of this section an amount equal to the percentage withheld from the pay of a Federal employee for periods of service covered by FERS and, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the amounts deducted from the individual's pay.
(e) The Corporation must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions required under FERS.
[74 FR 66566, Dec. 16, 2009]
§ 842.110
Continuation of coverage for food service employees of the House of Representatives or the Senate Restaurants.
(a)
Election.
Congressional employees who were covered by FERS and provide food service operations for the House of Representatives or the Senate Restaurants can elect to continue their FERS retirement coverage when such food service operations are transferred to a private contractor. These regulations also apply to any successor contractors.
(b)
Eligibility requirements.
To be eligible for continuation of retirement coverage, an employee must:
(1)(i) Be a Congressional employee (as defined in sec. 2107 of title 5, United States Code), other than an employee of the Architect of the Capitol, engaged in providing food service operations for the House of Representatives under the administrative control of the Architect of the Capitol; or
(ii) Be a Senate Restaurants employee who is an employee of the Architect of the Capitol on July 17, 2008;
(2) Be subject to FERS;
(3) Elect to remain covered under FERS retirement provisions no later
than the day before the date on which the food service operations transfer from the House of Representatives or the Senate Restaurants to a private contractor; and
(4) Become employed to provide food services under contract without a break in service. A “break in service” means a separation from employment of at least three calendar days.
(c)
Employee deductions.
An employee who elects to continue coverage under FERS is deemed to consent to deductions from his or her basic pay for the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in the amount determined in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8422. The employer providing the food services under contract must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the amounts deducted from an employee's pay.
(d)
Employer contributions.
The employer providing food services under contract must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions under 5 U.S.C. 8423 that would be required if the individual were a Congressional employee covered by the Federal Employees Retirement System.
(e)
Basic pay of covered former Senate Restaurants Employees.
Beginning with annuity payments commencing on or after April 14, 2020, the rate of basic pay paid by a Contractor (defined by 2 U.S.C. 2051(a)(2)) to a covered former Senate Restaurants Employee (defined by 2 U.S.C. 2051(a)(1)) for any period of continuous service performed as an employee of the contract shall be deemed to be basic pay for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 8401(3)-(4).
(f)
Retroactive
a
gency contributions and employee deductions related to covered former Senate Restaurants Employees.
The agency contributions and employee deductions that must be paid in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8423 and 2 U.S.C. 2051(c)(6)(A)(ii) for the period on or after June 12, 2019, until April 14, 2020 must be treated in accordance with § 841.505 of this part.
[85 FR 20577, Apr. 14, 2020]

# Subpart B—Eligibility

# Source:
52 FR 4473, Feb. 11, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.201
Purpose.
This subpart regulates the statutory provisions on eligibility for nondisability retirement under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS).
§ 842.202
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Commuting area
has the same meaning given that term in § 351.203 of this chapter.
Minimum retirement age
means an age based on an individual's year of birth, as follows:
Year of Birth
Minimum Retirement Age
Before 1948
55 years.
1948
55 years and 2 months.
1949
55 years and 4 months.
1950
55 years and 6 months.
1951
55 years and 8 months.
1952
55 years and 10 months.
1953-1964
56 years.
1965
56 years and 2 months.
1966
56 years and 4 months.
1967
56 years and 6 months.
1968
56 years and 8 months.
1969
56 years and 10 months.
1970 and after
57 years.
§ 842.203
General eligibility requirement.
An employee must have at least 5 years of civilian service creditable under FERS to be eligible for an annuity under this subpart, except as provided under part 846 of this chapter.
§ 842.204
Immediate voluntary retirement—basic age and service requirements.
(a) An employee or Member who separates from service is entitled to an annuity—
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, after attaining the minimum retirement age and completing 10 years of service; or
(2) After becoming age 60 and completing 20 years of service; or
(3) After becoming age 62 and completing 5 years of service.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) or (c) of this section, an annuity payable under paragraph (a) of
this section commences on the first day of the month following separation.
(2) An annuity payable under paragraph (a) of this section commences on the day after separation, if that separation occurs upon the expiration of a term (or other period) for which the individual was appointed or elected.
(c)(1) An employee or Member entitled to an annuity under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may elect to postpone the commencing date of that annuity, provided the individual—
(i) Has completed less than 30 years of service; and
(ii) Is not entitled to an immediate annuity under any other provision of this subpart. An immediate annuity means an annuity that will begin within 31 days of separation.
(2) A postponed commencing date may not precede the later of—
(i) The first day of the month after the date of separation of the employee or Member; or
(ii) The 31st day after the date of filing the election of a commencing date.
(3) A postponed commencing date must be no later than the second day before the employee's 62nd birthday.
(4) The election of a commencing date may be filed not more than 90 days before the commencing date elected by the employee or Member, and must be filed in a form prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
(5) A written election that is not in the prescribed form, but which designates a specific commencing date, and otherwise conforms to the time limits in paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section, will be accepted as an informal election subject to ratification in the prescribed form.
(6) The election of a commencing date becomes irrevocable on the date OPM authorizes the first annuity payment.
(d)(1) If an employee or Member separates from service after attaining the minimum retirement age and completing 10 years of service, but is reemployed before filing an application for retirement based on that separation, the individual may not elect an annuity commencing date that precedes separation from the reemployment service.
(2) In the case of an employee or Member who separates from service after attaining the minimum retirement age and completing 10 years of service, and is reemployed after filing an application for retirement based on that separation, that individual may not elect an annuity commencing date that precedes separation from the reemployment service if he or she is reemployed prior to a postponed commencing date elected under paragraph (c) of this section.
[51 FR 47197, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 65418, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 842.206
Involuntary retirement.
(a) An employee, other than an employee entitled to an annuity under § 842.207 or § 842.208, who separates from the service involuntarily after completing 25 years of service, or after becoming age 50 and completing 20 years of service is entitled to an annuity, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) An employee who is separated for cause on charges of misconduct or delinquency is not entitled to an annuity under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) An employee who would otherwise be entitled to an annuity under paragraph (a) of this section is not so entitled if the employee has declined a reasonable offer of another position that meets all of the following conditions:
(1) The offer must be made in writing;
(2) The employee must meet established qualification requirements; and
(3) The offered position must be—
(i) In the employee's agency, including an agency to which the employee would be transferred in a transfer of function(s) between agencies;
(ii) Within the employee's commuting area unless geographic mobility is a condition of the employee's employment;
(iii) Of the same tenure and work schedule; and
(iv) Not lower than the equivalent of two grades or pay levels below the employee's current grade or pay level, without consideration of the employee's eligibility to retain his or her current grade or pay under part 536 of this chapter or other authority. In movements between pay schedules or pay
systems, the comparison rate of the grade or pay level that is two grades below that of the current position will be compared with the comparison rate of the grade or pay level of the offered position. For this purpose, “comparison rate” has the meaning given that term in § 536.103 of this chapter, except paragraph (2) of that definition should be used for the purpose of comparing grades or levels of work in making reasonable offer determinations in all situations not covered by paragraph (1) of that definition.
(d) An annuity payable under paragraph (a) of this section commences on the day after separation from the service.
[52 FR 4473, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 70 FR 31315, May 31, 2005; 73 FR 66157, Nov. 7, 2008]
§ 842.207
Air traffic controllers.
(a) An employee who separates from service, except by removal for cause or charges of delinquency or misconduct, is entitled to an annuity—
(1) After completing 25 years of service as an air traffic controller; or
(2) After becoming age 50 and completing 20 years of service as an air traffic controller.
(b) An annuity payable under paragraph (a) of this section commences on the first day of the month following separation.
§ 842.208
Firefighters, customs and border protection officers, law enforcement officers, members of the Capitol or Supreme Court Police, and nuclear materials couriers.
(a) An employee who separates from service, except by removal for cause on charges of delinquency or misconduct, is entitled to an annuity—
(1) After completing any combination of service as a firefighter, customs and border protection officer, law enforcement officer, member of the Capitol or Supreme Court Police, or nuclear materials courier totaling 25 years; or
(2) After becoming age 50 and completing any combination of service as a firefighter, customs and border protection officer, law enforcement officer, member of the Capitol or Supreme Court Police, or nuclear materials courier totaling 20 years.
(b) An annuity payable under paragraph (a) of this section commences on the first day of the month following separation.
[52 FR 4473, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 65 FR 2524, Jan. 18, 2000; 76 FR 42000, July 18, 2011]
§ 842.209
Members of Congress.
(a) A Member, except one separated by resignation or expulsion, is entitled to an annuity—
(1) After completing 25 years of service; or
(2) After becoming age 50 and completing 20 years of service.
(b) An annuity payable under paragraph (a) of this section commences on the day after separation from the service.
§ 842.210
Military reserve technicians.
(a) A military reserve technician as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8401(30) who is separated from civilian service because of ceasing to qualify as a member of a military reserve component after reaching age 50 and completing 25 years of service is entitled to an annuity.
(b) An annuity payable under paragraph (a) of this section commences on the day after separation.
§ 842.211
Senior Executive Service, Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service, and Senior Cryptologic Executive Service.
(a) A member of the Senior Executive Service, the Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service, or the Senior Cryptologic Senior Executive Service who is removed or who resigns after receipt of written notice of proposed removal for less than fully successful executive performance, or for failure to be recertified as a senior executive, is entitled to an annuity—
(1) After completing 25 years of service; or
(2) After becoming age 50 and completing 20 years of service.
(b)
Removed for less than fully successful executive performance
means (1) with respect to a member of the Senior Executive Service, removal in accordance with procedures in subpart E of part 359 of this chapter; and (2) with respect to a member of the Defense Intelligence
Senior Executive Service or the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service, a certification by the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency or National Security Agency (or their designees) that the employee has been removed for less than fully successful executive performance.
(c)
Removed for failure to be recertified as a senior executive
means (1) With respect to a member of the Senior Executive Service, removal in accordance with the procedures in subpart C of part 359 of this chapter, and (2) with respect to a member of the Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service or the Senior Cryptologic Executive Service, a certification by the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency or National Security Agency (or their designees) that the employee has been removed for failure to be recertified under 10 U.S.C. 1601(a) or section 12(a)(1) of the National Security Agency Act, respectively.
(d) An annuity payable under paragraph (a) of this section commences on the day after separation from service.
[52 FR 4473, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 173, Jan. 3, 1991]
§ 842.212
Deferred retirement.
(a) An employee or Member who, after completing 5 years of service, separates from service or transfers to a position not covered by FERS is entitled to a deferred annuity beginning on the first day of the month after the individual attains age 62.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (c) of this section, an employee or Member who has not attained the minimum retirement age, and who, after completing 10 years of service, is separated or transferred to a position in which the individual is no longer covered by FERS, is entitled to a deferred annuity commencing—
(i) The first day of the month following the date on which the individual attains the minimum retirement age or, if later,
(ii) A date the individual designates that follows the date on which the designation is filed.
(2) The election of a commencing date may be filed no more than 90 days before that commencing date, and must be elected in a form prescribed by OPM. A written election that is not in the prescribed form, but which designates a specific commencing date, will be accepted for as an informal election, subject to ratification in the prescribed form.
(3) An employee or Member is not entitled to a deferred annuity under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the individual is eligible for an annuity under §§ 842.205 through 842.211 or will, within 31 days after filing the election of a commencing date, attain age 62.
(4) The election of a commencing date becomes irrevocable on the date OPM authorizes the first annuity payment.
(c)(1) If an employee or Member separates from service after completing 10 years of service but before attaining the minimum retirement age, and is reemployed before filing an application for retirement based on that separation, that individual may not elect an annuity commencing date that precedes separation from the reemployment service.
(2) In the case of an employee or Member who separates from service after completing 10 years of service but before attaining the minimum retirement age, and is reemployed after filing an application for retirement based on that separation, that individual may not elect an annuity commencing date that precedes separation from the reemployment service if he or she is reemployed prior to a postponed commencing date elected under paragraph (b).
[51 FR 47197, Dec. 31, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 65418, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 842.213
Voluntary early retirement-substantial delayering, reorganization, reduction in force, transfer of function, or other workforce restructuring.
(a) A
specific designee
is defined as a senior official within an agency who has been specifically designated to sign requests for voluntary early retirement authority under a designation from the head of the agency. Examples include a Chief Human Capital Officer, an Assistant Secretary for Administration, a Director of Human Resources Management, or other official.
(b) An agency's request for voluntary early retirement authority must be signed by the head of the agency or by a specific designee.
(c) The request must contain the following information:
(1) Identification of the agency or specified component(s) for which the authority is being requested;
(2) Reasons why the agency needs voluntary early retirement authority. This must include a detailed summary of the agency's personnel and/or budgetary situation that will result in an excess of personnel because of a substantial delayering, reorganization, reduction in force, transfer of function, or other workforce restructuring or reshaping, consistent with agency human capital goals;
(3) The date on which the agency expects to effect the substantial delayering, reorganization, reduction in force, transfer of function, or other workforce restructuring or reshaping;
(4) The time period during which the agency plans to offer voluntary early retirement;
(5) The total number of non-temporary employees in the agency (or specified component(s));
(6) The total number of non-temporary employees in the agency (or specified component(s)) who may be involuntarily separated, downgraded, transferred, or reassigned as a result of the substantial delayering, reorganization, reduction in force, transfer of function, or other workforce restructuring or reshaping;
(7) The total number of employees in the agency (or specified component(s)) who are eligible for voluntary early retirement;
(8) An estimate of the total number of employees in the agency (or specified component(s)) who are expected to retire early during the period covered by the request for voluntary early retirement authority; and
(9) A description of the types of personnel actions anticipated as a result of the agency's need for voluntary early retirement authority. Examples include separations, transfers, reassignments, and downgradings.
(d) OPM will evaluate a request for voluntary early retirement based on:
(1) A specific request to OPM from the agency for voluntary early retirement authority;
(2) A voluntary separation incentive payment implementation plan, as discussed in part 576, subpart A, of this chapter, which must outline the intended use of the incentive payments and voluntary early retirement; or
(3) The agency's human capital plan, which must outline its intended use of voluntary separation incentive payments and voluntary early retirement authority, and the changes in organizational structure it expects to make as the result of projected separations and early retirements.
(e) Regardless of the method used, the request must include all of the information required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(f) OPM may approve an agency's request for voluntary early retirement authority to cover the entire period of the substantial delayering, reorganization, reduction in force, transfer of function, or other workforce restructuring or reshaping described by the agency, or the initial portion of that period with a requirement for subsequent information and justification if the period covers multiple years.
(g) After OPM approves an agency's request, the agency must immediately notify OPM of any subsequent changes in the conditions that served as the basis for the approval of the voluntary early retirement authority. Depending upon the circumstances involved, OPM will modify the authority as necessary to better suit the agency's needs.
(h) The agency may further limit voluntary early retirement offers based on:
(1) An established opening and closing date for the acceptance of applications that is announced to employees at the time of the offer; or
(2) The acceptance of a specified number of applications for voluntary early retirement, provided that, at the time of the offer, the agency notified employees that it retained the right to limit the number of voluntary early retirements.
(i) Within the timeframe specified for its approved voluntary early retirement authority, the agency may subsequently establish a new or revised closing date, or reduce or increase the number of early retirement applications it will accept, if management's downsizing and/or reshaping needs change. If the agency issues a revised closing date, or a revised number of applications to be accepted, the new date or number of applications must be announced to the same group of employees included in the original announcement. If the agency issues a new window period with a new closing date, or a new instance of a specific number of applications to be accepted, the new window period or number of applications to be accepted may be announced to a different group of employees as long as they are covered by the approved voluntary early retirement authority.
(j) Chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, requires that agencies treat employees on military duty, for all practical purposes, as though they were still on the job. Further, employees are not to be disadvantaged because of their military service. In accordance with these provisions, employees on military duty who would otherwise be eligible for an offer of voluntary early retirement will have 30 days following their return to duty to either accept or reject an offer of voluntary early retirement. This will be true even if the voluntary early retirement authority provided by OPM has expired.
(k) An employee who separates from the service voluntarily after completing 25 years of service, or becoming age 50 and completing 20 years of service, is entitled to an annuity if, on the date of separation, the employee:
(1) Is serving in a position covered by a voluntary early retirement offer; and
(2) Meets the following conditions which are covered in 5 U.S.C. 8414(b)(1)(B):
(i) Has been employed continuously, by the agency in which the employee is serving, for at least the 31-day period ending on the date on which such agency requests the determination referred to in section 842.213(b);
(ii) Is serving under an appointment that is not time limited;
(iii) Has not been duly notified that such employee is to be involuntarily separated for misconduct or unacceptable performance;
(iv) Is separated from the service voluntarily during a period in which, as determined by the Office of Personnel Management (upon request of the agency) under regulations prescribed by the Office:
(A) Such agency (or, if applicable, the component in which the employee is serving) is undergoing substantial delayering, substantial reorganization, substantial reductions in force, substantial transfer of function, or other substantial workforce restructuring (or shaping);
(B) A significant percentage of employees serving in such agency (or component) are likely to be separated or subject to an immediate reduction in the rate of basic pay (without regard to subchapter VI of chapter 53, or comparable provisions); or
(C) Identified as being in positions which are becoming surplus or excess to the agency's future ability to carry out its mission effectively; and
(v) As determined by the agency under regulations prescribed by the Office, is within the scope of the offer of voluntary early retirement, which may be made based on the following criteria:
(A) 1 or more organizational units;
(B) 1 or more occupational series or levels;
(C) 1 or more geographical locations;
(D) Specific periods;
(E) Skills, knowledge, or other factors related to a position; or
(F) Any appropriate combination of such factors.
(l) Agencies are responsible for ensuring that employees are not coerced into voluntary early retirement. If an agency finds any instances of coercion, it must take appropriate corrective action.
(m) Except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, an agency may not offer or process voluntary early retirements beyond the stated expiration date of a voluntary early retirement authority or offer early retirements to employees who are not within the scope of the voluntary early retirement authority approved by OPM.
(n) OPM may terminate a voluntary early retirement authority if it determines that the condition(s) that formed the basis for the approval of the authority no longer exist.
(o) OPM may amend, limit, or terminate a voluntary early retirement authority to ensure that the requirements of this subpart are properly being followed.
[69 FR 33279, June 15, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 50265, Aug. 16, 2004; 80 FR 75786, Dec. 4, 2015]

# Subpart C—Credit for Service

# Source:
52 FR 18193, May 14, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.301
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the provisions governing credit for service under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS), 5 U.S.C. 8411. Except as provided by section 302 of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-335 (the special provisions for employees who elect to transfer to FERS), service not creditable under this subpart is not creditable either for the purposes of determining eligibility to an annuity or in computing the rate of an annuity benefit under subchapter II (basic annuity), IV (survivor annuity), or V (disability annuity) of chapter 84 of title 5 of the United States Code.
§ 842.302
Definitions.
Cadet Nurse Corps
means any training as a student or graduate nurse under a plan approved under section 2 of the Act of June 15, 1943 (57 Stat. 153).
Employee
means an employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 8401(11).
FERS
means the Federal Employees Retirement System as established under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Government
means the Federal Government and Gallaudet College.
Member
means a Member of Congress as defined by 5 U.S.C. 8401(20).
Military service
means honorable active service in the armed forces of the United States; in the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service after June 30, 1960; or in the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or a predecessor entity in function, after June 30, 1961. “Military service” does not include service in the National Guard except when ordered to active duty in the service of the United States.
Survivor
means a current spouse, a child or a former spouse who is entitled to an annuity in accordance with part 843 of this chapter.
§ 842.303
General.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no service credit is allowed for a period of separation from service.
(2) Service credit is allowed for a period of separation of less than 4 days and for a period of separation during which an individual was receiving benefits under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, provided the individual returns to duty in the Government subject to FERS.
(b) Service credit cannot be granted in excess of actual calendar time from the date of appointment to the date of separation from service.
(c) Any period of time for which service credit under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, is specifically allowed by a provision of law is creditable under this subpart subject to any applicable deposit requirements.
§ 842.304
Civilian service.
(a) Except as otherwise provided under title III of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986, an employee or Member is entitled to credit for all purposes under FERS for a period of civilian service with the Government or the U.S. Postal Service—
(1) Performed after December 31, 1986, which is covered service under subpart A of this part and for which deductions required under 5 U.S.C. 8422(a) have not been refunded;
(2) That, other than service under paragraph (a)(1) of this section—
(i) Was performed before 1989;
(ii) Would have been creditable under 5 U.S.C. 8332 if the employee or Member were subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code,
without regard to any deposit, redeposit, or coverage requirement under that subchapter; and
(iii) Is covered by deductions or a deposit required by § 842.305 and the deductions or deposit have not been refunded after the employee or Member first became subject to FERS;
(3) That was creditable under subchapter II of chapter 8 of title 1 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Foreign Service Pension System), provided—
(i) The employee or Member waives credit for the service under the Foreign Service Pension System; and
(ii) The employee or Member makes the deposit required by § 842.305, and the deposit is not refunded;
(4) While on leave of absence without pay, subject to a limit of 6 months per calendar year, except that the 6-month limit does not apply while—
(i) Performing military service; or
(ii) Receiving benefits under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code;
(5) While on approved leave without pay granted to serve as a full-time officer or employee of an organization composed primarily of employees, as defined by section 8331(1) or 8401(11) of title 5, United States Code, provided—
(i) The employee elects, within 60 days after the commencing date of leave without pay, to pay to the employing agency the retirement deductions and agency contributions that would be applicable if the employee were in a pay status;
(ii) Payments of the deductions and contributions begin on a regular basis within 60 days after the commencing date of leave without pay; and
(iii) Payments of the required deductions and contributions are completed and not refunded; and
(6) While assigned on detail or leave without pay to a State or local government under 5 U.S.C. 3373, provided—
(i) The normal cost percentage (under subpart D of part 841 of this chapter) for the employee (who is deemed to continue in the same normal cost percentage category as applicable on the date of the assignment) is remitted to OPM for each pay period during the assignment; and
(ii) The employee, or, if he or she dies without making an election, his or her survivor, does not elect to receive benefits under any State or local government retirement law or program, which OPM determines to be similar to FERS.
(b)
Cadet Nurse Corps.
(1) Service credit is allowed under Pub. L. 99-638 for a period of service performed with the Cadet Nurse Corps provided—
(i) The service totaled 2 years or more;
(ii) The individual submits an application for service credit to OPM no later than January 10, 1988;
(iii) The individual is employed by the Federal Government in a position subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code (other than 5 U.S.C. 8344) or chapter 84 of that title (other than 5 U.S.C. 8468) at the time he or she applies to OPM for service credit under this provision; and
(iv) The individual makes a deposit for the service in accordance with § 842.305(g) before the date of separation from service on which the individual's entitlement to annuity is based.
(c)
National Guard technician service before January 1, 1969
—(1)
Definition.
In this section,
service as a National Guard technician
is service performed under section 709 of title 32, United States Code (or under a prior corresponding provision of law) before January 1, 1969.
(2)
Employees on or after November 6, 1990.
Employees, subject to FERS retirement deductions, whose only service as a National Guard technician was performed prior to January 1, 1969, are entitled to credit under FERS if they—
(i) Submit to OPM an application for service credit in a form prescribed by OPM;
(ii) Are employed by the Federal Government in a position subject to FERS retirement deductions after November 5, 1990; and
(iii) Complete the deposit for the service through normal service credit channels before final adjudication of their application for retirement or have the deposit deemed made when they elect the alternative form of annuity.
(3)
Former Federal employees.
Former Federal employees who were subject to FERS retirement deductions and separated after December 31, 1968, but before November 6, 1990, with title to a
deferred annuity, may make a deposit for pre-1969 National Guard technician service provided they—
(i) Submit a written application for the pre-1969 National Guard technician service to OPM before November 6, 1991; and
(ii) Complete a deposit for the additional service in a lump sum or in installment payments of $50 or more. Payments must be completed before their retirement claim is finally adjudicated, unless the deposit is deemed made when they elect an alternative form of annuity.
(4)
Annuitants and survivors.
(i) Individuals who were entitled to receive an immediate annuity (or survivor annuity benefits) as of November 6, 1990, may make a deposit for pre-1969 National Guard technician service provided they—
(A) Submit a written application for service credit to OPM before November 6, 1991; and
(B) Complete a deposit for the additional service in a lump sum or in equal monthly annuity installments to be completed within 24 months of the date of the written application.
(ii) To determine the commencing date of the deposit installment payment period for annuitants and survivors, the “date of application” will be considered to be the first day of the second month beginning after OPM receives a complete written application from the individual.
(iii) To be a complete application, the individual's written request for pre-1969 National Guard technician service credit must also include a certification of the dates of employment and the rates of pay received by the individual during the employment period. The individual may obtain certification of service from the Adjutant General of the State in which the service was performed.
(d)
Credit for service performed as an employee of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.
(1) Credit for service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality is allowed in accordance with an election under 5 CFR part 847, subpart D or H.
(2) Service under FERS for which the employee withdrew all deductions is creditable in accordance with an election made under 5 CFR part 847, subpart D.
(3) An annuity that includes credit for service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality under 5 CFR part 847, subpart D, or refunded service under paragraph (d)(2) of this section is computed under 5 CFR part 847, subpart F.
(4) An annuity that includes credit for service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality under 5 CFR part 847, subpart H, is computed under 5 CFR part 847, subpart I.
(e)
Certain Government service performed abroad after December 31, 1988, and before May 24, 1998
—(1)
Definition.
In this section,
certain Government service performed abroad
is service performed at a United States diplomatic mission, consular post (other than a consular agency), or other Foreign Service post abroad under a temporary appointment pursuant to sections 309 and 311 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3949 and 3951).
(2)
Conditions for Creditability.
Service credit is allowed under section 321 of Pub. L. 107-228 for certain Government service performed abroad after December 31, 1988, and before May 24, 1998, provided—
(i) The service in the aggregate totaled 90 days or more;
(ii) The individual performing the service would have satisfied all eligibility requirements under regulations of the Department of State (as in effect on September 30, 2002) for a family member limited noncareer appointment (within the meaning of such regulations, as in effect on September 30, 2002) at the time the service was performed, except that, in applying this paragraph, an individual not employed by the Department of State while performing the service shall be treated as if then so employed;
(iii) The service would have been creditable under FERS had it been performed before 1989 and had the deposit requirements of § 842.305 been met;
(iv) The service is not otherwise creditable under FERS or any other retirement system for employees of the U.S. Government (disregarding title II of the Social Security Act);
(v) The individual applying for the service credit submits a written application to make a deposit with the department or agency where the service was performed, and completes the deposit, in accordance with § 842.305(j); and
(vi) The department or agency where the service was performed remits Government contributions for the service to OPM in accordance with § 842.305(j).
(3)
Departments or agencies no longer in existence.
If the department or agency where the individual performed certain Government service abroad no longer exists, the Department of State must process applications for service credit under this section. Government contributions for the service will not need to be remitted to OPM.
[52 FR 18193, May 14, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 6554, Feb. 19, 1991; 56 FR 55596, Oct. 29, 1991; 61 FR 41720, Aug. 9, 1996; 68 FR 2178, Jan. 16, 2003; 70 FR 50953, Aug. 29, 2005]
§ 842.305
Deposits for civilian service.
(a)
Eligibility—current and former employees or Members.
An employee or Member subject to FERS and a former employee or Member who is entitled to an annuity may make a deposit for civilian service described under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of § 842.304 upon application to OPM in a form prescribed by OPM. A deposit for civilian service cannot be made later than 30 days after the first regular monthly payment as defined in § 842.602.
(b)
Eligibility—survivors.
If an employee or Member was, at the time of death, eligible to make a deposit, the employee's survivor may make the deposit for civilian service. A deposit under this paragraph cannot be made after adjudication of the survivor's application for benefits becomes final, which is 30 days after the date of OPM's notice to the survivor of the annuity rates with and without making the deposit.
(c)
Distinct period of service.
A deposit is not considered to have been made for any distinct period of service unless the total amount due for the period is paid in full. A distinct period of civilian service for this purpose is a period of civilian service that is not interrupted by a break in service of more than 3 days.
(d)
Amount of deposits.
The amount of a deposit for a period of service under § 842.304(a)(2) equals 1.3 percent of the basic pay for the service, plus interest. The amount of a deposit for a period of service under § 842.304(a)(3) equals the amount that would have been deducted from pay under 5 U.S.C. 8422(a) had the employee been subject to FERS during the service, plus interest.
(e)
Interest.
(1) Interest is charged at the rate of 4 percent a year through December 31, 1947; 3 percent a year beginning January 1, 1948, through December 31, 1984; and thereafter at a rate as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury for each calendar year that equals the overall average yield to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (the Fund) during the preceding fiscal year from all obligations purchased by the Secretary during such fiscal year under 5 U.S.C. 8348 (c), (d), and (e).
(2) The computation of interest is on the basis of 30 days to the month. Interest is computed for the actual calendar time involved in each case; but, whenever applicable, the rule of average applies.
(3) Interest is computed from the midpoint of each service period included in the computation. The interest accrues annually on the outstanding portion, and is compounded annually, until the portion is deposited. Interest is not charged after the commencing date of annuity or for a period of separation from the service that began before October 1, 1956.
(f)
Forms of deposit.
Deposits may be made in a single lump sum or in installments not smaller than $50 each.
(g)
Cadet Nurse Corps.
(1) Upon receiving an application for service credit with the Cadet Nurse Corps, OPM will determine whether all the conditions for creditability (§ 842.304(b)) have been met; compute the deposit, including interest; and advise the employing agency and the employee of the total amount of the deposit due. The rate of basic pay for this purpose is deemed to be $15 per month for the first 9 months of study; $20 per month for the 10th through the 21st months of study; and $30 per month for any month in excess of 21 months. Interest is computed in
accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) The employing agency must establish a deposit account showing the total amount due and a payment schedule (unless deposit is made in one lump sum) to record the date and amount of each payment.
(3) If the individual cannot make payment in one lump sum, the employing agency must accept installment payments (by allotments or otherwise). The employing agency, however, is not required to accept individual checks in amounts less than $50.
(4) Payments received by the employing agency must be remitted to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
(5) Once the employee's deposit has been paid in full or closed out, the employing agency must submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.
(h)
Processing applications for pre-1969 National Guard technician service credit for employees subject to FERS retirement deductions after November 5, 1990
—(1)
OPM determines creditable service.
OPM will determine whether all conditions for crediting the additional service have been met, compute the deposit, and notify the employee of the amount of and the procedures for submitting the deposit payments to OPM to obtain credit for the service.
(2)
Computing the deposit.
(i) For individuals who will not have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed based on—
(A) One and three tenths percent of basic pay at the time the service was performed; and
(B) Interest at the rate of 3 percent per year computed as specified by section 8334(e)(2) of title 5, United States Code, until the date the deposit is paid.
(ii) For individuals who will have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed as specified in 5 CFR 831.306(c).
(i)
Processing applications for pre-1969 National Guard technician service credit for annuitants (and survivors) and for former employees who separated after December 31, 1968, and before November 6, 1990
—(1)
OPM determines creditable service.
OPM will determine whether all conditions for crediting the additional service have been met, compute the amount of the deposit, and notify the individual.
(2)
Computing the deposit for annuitants and survivors.
(i) For individuals who do not have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed based on—
(A) One and three tenths percent of basic pay at the time the service was performed; and
(B) Interest at the rate of 3 percent per year as specified by section 8334(e)(2) of title 5, United States Code, to the midpoint of the 24-month installment period, or if paid in a lump sum, the date the deposit is paid.
(ii) For individuals who will have a CSRS component, the deposit will be computed as specified in 5 CFR 831.306(e)(2)(i) and (ii)(A).
(iii)(A) OPM will notify annuitants and survivors of the amount of the deposit and give them a proposed installment schedule for paying the deposit from monthly annuity payments. The proposed installment payments will consist of equal monthly payments that will not exceed a period 24 months from the date a complete written application is received by OPM.
(B) The annuitant or survivor may allow the deposit installments to be deducted from his or her annuity as proposed or make payment in a lump sum within 30 days from the date of the notice.
(C) Increased annuity payments will begin to accrue the first day of the month after OPM receives the complete written application.
(iv) If an annuitant dies before completing the deposit installment payments, the remaining installments will be deducted as established for the annuitant from benefits payable to the survivor annuitant (but not if the only survivor benefit is payable to a child or children of the deceased), if any. If no survivor annuity is payable, OPM may collect the balance of the deposit from any lump sum benefits payable or from the decedent's estate, if any.
(3)
Computing the deposit for former Federal employees separated after December 31, 1968 but before November 6, 1990.
For former employees with title to a
deferred annuity that commences after November 6, 1990, the deposit will be computed as provided in paragraph (i)(2) above, except that interest will be computed through the commencing date of annuity or the date the deposit is paid, whichever comes first.
(j)
Certain Government service performed abroad after December 31, 1988, and before May 24, 1998
—(1)
Eligibility-current and former employees, and retirees.
A current or former employee, or a retiree who performed certain Government service abroad described in § 842.304(e) may make a deposit for such service, in a form prescribed by OPM.
(2)
Eligibility-survivors.
A survivor of a current employee, former employee, or a retiree eligible to make a deposit under paragraph (j)(1) of this section may make a deposit under this section if the current or former employee, or retiree is deceased and the survivor is eligible or would be eligible for a survivor annuity under FERS based on the service of the current or former employee, or retiree.
(3)
Filing of deposit application.
An individual eligible to make a deposit under paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section for service described in § 842.304(e) must submit a written application to make a deposit for such service with the appropriate office in the department or agency where such service was performed. If the department or agency where the service was performed no longer exists, the individual must submit the written application to the appropriate office in the Department of State.
(4)
Time limit for filing application.
An application to make a deposit under this section must be submitted on or before August 29, 2008.
(5)
Amount of deposit.
(i) A deposit under this section must be computed using distinct periods of service. For the purpose of this section, a distinct period of service means a period of service not interrupted by a break in service of more than 3 days. A deposit may be made for any or all distinct periods of service.
(ii) The amount of deposit under this section equals the amount of deductions from basic pay that would have been required under section 8422 of title 5, United States Code, if at the time the service was performed the service had been subject to FERS deductions under that section, plus interest.
(6)
Forms of deposit.
A deposit under this section must be made as a single lump sum within 180 days of being notified of the deposit amount.
(7)
Processing deposit applications and payments.
(i) The department or agency where the service described in § 842.304(e) was performed must process the deposit applications and payments under this section. If the department or agency where the service was performed no longer exists, the Department of State must process the deposit applications and payments under this section.
(ii) Whenever requested, the Department of State must assist the department or agency responsible for processing deposit applications under this section determine whether the application meets the requirements of § 842.304(e).
(iii) Upon receiving a deposit application under this section, the department or agency must determine whether the application meets the requirements of § 842.304(e); compute the deposit, including interest; and advise the applicant of the total amount of deposit due.
(iv) The department or agency must establish a deposit account showing the total amount due.
(v) When it receives an individual's payment for the service, the department or agency must remit the payment to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.
(vi) Once a deposit has been paid in full or otherwise closed out, the department or agency must submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.
(8)
Government contributions.
(i) The department or agency where service described in § 842.304(e) was performed must pay Government contributions for each period of service covered by a deposit under this section.
(ii) The amount of contributions under this section equals the amount of Government contributions which
would have been required for the service under section 8423 of title 5, United States Code, if the service had been covered under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, plus interest.
(iii) The department or agency must remit the amount of Government contributions under this section to OPM at the same time it remits the employee deposit for this service to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.
(9)
Interest.
Interest must be computed as described under paragraphs (2) and (3) of 5 U.S.C. 8334(e). Interest must be computed for each distinct period of service from the midpoint of each distinct period of service. The interest accrues annually on the outstanding deposit and is compounded annually, until the deposit is paid.
(10)
Effect of deposit.
An individual completing a deposit under this section will receive retirement credit for the service covered by the deposit when OPM receives certification that the deposit has been paid in full, and the deposit payment and agency contributions are remitted to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
(11)
Appeal rights.
When the department or agency processing an application for deposit under this section determines that the individual is not eligible to make a deposit for a period of service, it must provide the individual with a written decision explaining the reason for the decision and explaining the individual's right to appeal the decision to the Merit Systems Protection Board.
(k)
Administrative error.
If OPM determines that additional interest was assessed on a deposit for full-time volunteer service as a volunteer or a volunteer leader with the Peace Corps or Volunteers in Serviced to America (VISTA) due to its own administrative error, OPM may pay, on behalf of the employee, Member, or annuitant, any additional interest assessed due to the administrative error.
[52 FR 18193, May 14, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 55597, Oct. 29, 1991; 56 FR 65419, Dec. 17, 1991; 70 FR 50953, Aug. 29, 2005; 86 FR 20438, Apr. 20, 2021]
§ 842.306
Military service.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b), and unless otherwise provided under title III of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986, an employee's or Member's military service is creditable if it was performed—
(1) Before January 1, 1957; or
(2) After December 31, 1956, subject to payment, before separation from service, of the deposit required by § 842.307.
(b) Credit for a period of military service is not allowed if the employee or Member is receiving military retired pay for such period awarded for reasons other than—
(1) Service-connected disability incurred in combat with an enemy of the United States;
(2) Service-connected disability caused by an instrumentality of war and incurred in the line of duty during a period of war (within the meaning of chapter 11 of title 38, United States Code); or
(3) Retirement under chapter 67 of title 10, United States Code.
(c) When adjudicating annuity claims, OPM will accept determinations made by the agency that authorized military retired pay concerning—
(1) The effective date of a waiver of military retired pay;
(2) Whether an individual's military retired pay was awarded for any of the reasons mentioned under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(3) Whether a period of military service forms the basis for military retired pay.
(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, the computation of a survivor's annuity includes credit for any military service allowable under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the separated employee (as defined in § 843.102 of this chapter) was awarded military retired pay, died after the date of separation from civilian service, and did not waive military retired pay effective before the date of death, military service upon which the military retired pay was based is not creditable.
(3) If the survivor of a deceased employee who had been awarded military retired pay files, in a form prescribed
by OPM, an election not to have a period of military service included in the computation of survivor benefits, that period of military service is not included in the computation of survivor benefits.
§ 842.307
Deposits for military service.
(a)
Eligibility to make a deposit.
(1) An employee or Member subject to FERS may make a deposit for any distinct period of military service by filing an application in a form prescribed by OPM.
(2) An application to make a deposit is filed with the appropriate office in the employing agency, or, for Members and Congressional employees, with the Secretary of the Senate, or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, as appropriate.
(3) An employee's or Member's deposit for military service must be completed before separation from service. If a deceased employee or Member was, at the time of death, eligible to make a deposit, the employee's or Member's survivor may make the deposit in one lump sum to the former employing agency, the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, before OPM completes adjudication of the survivor annuity application. A person who was eligible to make a deposit for military service but failed to complete the deposit within the time limits provided in this paragraph, may complete the deposit in a lump sum within the time limit set by OPM when it rules that an administrative error has been made.
(b)
Amount of deposit.
(1) The amount of a deposit for military service equals 3 percent of the basic pay for the service under 37 U.S.C. 207, or an estimate of the basic pay (see paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section), plus interest, unless interest is not required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(2) Interest is charged at a rate as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury for each calendar year that equals the overall average yield to the Fund during the preceding fiscal year from all obligations purchased by the Secretary during such fiscal year under 5 U.S.C. 8348(c), (d), and (e).
(3) The computation of interest is on the basis of 30 days to the month. Interest is computed for the actual calendar time involved in each case; but whenever applicable, the rule of average applies.
(4) Interest is computed from the mid-point of each full period of service included in the computation. The interest accrues annual on the outstanding portion beginning on the second anniversary of the employee's or Member's beginning date of coverage under FERS, and is compounded annually, until the portion is deposited. Interest is charged to the date of deposit. No interest will be charged if the deposit is completed before the end of the year after interest begins. For example, if an employee becomes subject to FERS on March 1, 1988, interest begins to accrue on March 1, 1990; however, no interest would be included in the deposit due if the deposit is completed by February 28, 1991.
(c)
Processing deposit applications and payments.
(1) The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate will have the employee or Member—
(i) Complete an application to make deposit;
(ii) Provided a copy of his or her DD Form 214 or its equivalent to verify the period(s) of service; and
(iii) Provide copies of all official military pay documents, as identified in instructions issued by OPM, which show the exact basic pay he or she received for full period of service; or, if such evidence is not available, obtain a statement of estimated earnings from the appropriate branch of the military service and submit the statement.
(2) Upon receipt of the application, the DD Form 214, and either the evidence of exact basic pay or the statement of estimated earnings, the agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate will establish a deposit account showing—
(i) The total amount due, including interest, if any;
(ii) A payment schedule (unless deposit is made in a lump sum); and
(iii) The date and amount of each payment.
(3) Deposits may be made in a single lump sum or in installments. The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, and Secretary of the Senate are
not required to accept installment payments in amounts less than $50.
(4) Payments received by the employing agency, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate will be remitted to OPM for deposit to the Fund in accordance with payroll office instructions issued by OPM.
(d)
Distinct periods of service.
A deposit is not considered to have been made for any distinct period of service unless the total amount due for the period is paid in full. A “distinct period” for this purpose is the total years, months, and days from the date of entry on active duty (or from January 1, 1957, if later) to the date of final discharge for enlisted military personnel, or to the date of final release from active duty for officers and reservists. A “distinct period” also includes consecutive periods of service where there is no break in service, but does not include any lost time.
(e)
Administrative error.
(1) When an administrative error occurs by the employing Agency in calculating or processing a military service deposit, interest assessed as a result of the administrative error may be paid by the agency, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate on behalf of the employee. The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the Secretary of the Senate will determine if administrative error occurred.
(2) When an administrative error occurs by OPM in calculating or processing a military service deposit, interest assessed as a result of the administrative error may be paid by OPM on behalf of the employee. OPM will determine if administrative error occurred. Any payment of additional interest of behalf of the employee is paid from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
[48 FR 193, Jan. 4, 1983, as amended at 86 FR 20438, Apr. 20, 2021]
§ 842.308
Refunds of deductions and service credit deposits made before becoming subject to FERS.
(a) An employee or Member who, while currently employed, is eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8342(a) for a refund of deductions or deposits (relating to civilian service performed before becoming subject to FERS and totaling less than 5 years, not counting service after 1983 that was covered simultaneously by both CSRS and social security) that were previously made for a period of service performed before becoming subject to FERS is eligible for a refund, upon proper application in a form prescribed by OPM. The amount of this refund is the difference between—
(1) The amount of deductions and deposits to his or her credit for such service, plus any interest computed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8331(8): and
(2) The amount of the deposit required for such service under § 842.305.
(b) A former employee or Member who is eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8342(a) for a refund of deductions or deposits covering civilian service of the types described in paragraph (a) of this section is eligible for a refund, upon proper application in a form prescribed by OPM. The individual may irrevocably elect a refund, with resepct to this service, of either—
(1) The amount provided under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) The full amount of deductions and deposits to his or her credit for such service, plus any interest computed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8331(8). If the full amount of deductions and deposits is elected by the former employee or Member, no future deposit for the service may be made.
(c) An employee or Member, who, before becoming subject to FERS, made a deposit for military service is eligible upon proper application in a form prescribed by OPM, while currently employed, for a refund of the amount deposited, excluding interest, to the extent that this amount exceeds the amount of the deposit required for such service under § 842.307.
(d) A former employee or Member who, before becoming subject to FERS, made a deposit for military service is eligible for a refund, upon proper application in a form prescribed by OPM. The former employee or Member may irrevocably elect to receive either—
(1) The amount provided under paragraph (c) of this section; or
(2) The full amount deposited and remaining to the individual's credit. If
the full amount of the deposit is elected, no future deposit for the service may be made.
(e) If the current employing agency holds all necessary records pertaining to the amounts in question under paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, the current employing agency will pay the refund in accordance with OPM instructions. Otherwise, OPM will pay the refund.
§ 842.309
Contract service.
Contract service with the United States will only be included in the computation of, or used to establish title to, an annuity under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, if—
(a) The employing agency exercised an explicit statutory authority to appoint an individual into the civil service by contract; or
(b) The head of the agency which was party to the contract, based on a timely-filed application, in accordance with section 110 of Public Law 100-238, and the regulations promulgated by OPM pursuant to that statute, certifies that the agency intended that an individual be considered as having been appointed to a position in which (s)he would have been subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, and deposit has been paid in accordance with OPM's regulations.
[55 FR 53136, Dec. 27, 1990]
§ 842.310
Service not creditable because of an election under part 847 of this chapter.
Any FERS service which becomes creditable under a retirement system established for nonappropriated fund employees due to an election made under part 847 of this chapter is not creditable for any purpose under FERS.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996]

# Subpart D—Computations

# Source:
52 FR 4475, Feb. 11, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.401
Purpose.
This subpart regulates the basic annuity computation under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS).
§ 842.402
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Full-time service
means service performed by an employee who has—
(1) An officially established recurring basic workweek consisting of 40 hours within the employee's administrative workweek (as established under § 610.111 of this chapter or similar authority);
(2) An officially established recurring basic work requirement of 80 hours per biweekly pay period (as established for employees with a flexible or compressed work schedule under 5 U.S.C. chapter 61, subchapter II, or similar authority);
(3) For a firefighter covered by 5 U.S.C. 5545b(b) who does not have a 40-hour basic workweek, a regular tour of duty averaging at least 106 hours per biweekly pay period; or
(4) A work schedule that is considered to be full-time by express provision of law, including a work schedule established for certain nurses under 38 U.S.C. 7456 or 7456A that is considered by law to be a full-time schedule for all purposes.
Part-time service
means any actual service performed on a less than full-time basis, by an individual whose appointment describes a regularly scheduled tour of duty, and any period of time credited as nonpay status time under 5 U.S.C 8411(d), that follows a period of part-time service without any intervening period of actual service other than part-time service.
Proration factor
means a fraction expressed as a percentage rounded to the nearest percent. The numerator is the sum of the number of hours the employee actually worked during part-time service; and the denominator is the sum of the number of hours that a full-time employee would be scheduled to work during the same period of service included in the numerator. If an employee has creditable service in addition to part-time service, such service must be included in the numerator and denominator of the fraction.
Total service
means the full years and twelfth parts thereof of an employee's or Member's service creditable under
subpart C of this part, excluding any fractional part of a month.
[52 FR 4475, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 22436, June 12, 1987; 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993; 79 FR 46632, Aug. 8, 2014]
§ 842.403
Computation of basic annuity.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and §§ 842.405 and 842.406, the annuity of an employee or Member is 1 percent of average pay multiplied by total service.
(b) The annuity of an employee is 1.1 percent of average pay multiplied by total service, provided the individual—
(1) Has completed 20 years of service; and
(2) At the time of separation on which entitlement to an annuity is based—
(i) Is at least age 62; and
(ii) Is not a customs and border protection officer, a Member, Congressional employee, military reserve technician, law enforcement officer, firefighter, nuclear materials courier, or air traffic controller.
[52 FR 4475, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 42000, July 18, 2011]
§ 842.404
Reductions in basic annuity.
The annuity of an employee or Member retiring under § 842.204(a)(1) or § 842.212(b) is reduced by five-twelfths of 1 percent for each full month by which the commencing date of annuity precedes the 62nd birthday of the employee or Member, unless the individual—
(a) Has completed 30 years of service; or
(b)(1) Has completed 20 years of service; and
(2) Is at least age 60 on the commencing date of annuity; or
(c) Has completed 20 years of service as—
(1) An air traffic controller, except one separated by removal for cause on charges of misconduct or delinquency;
(2) A firefighter and/or law enforcement officer, except one separated by removal for cause on charges of misconduct of delinquency; or
(3) A Member, except one separated by resignation or expulsion.
§ 842.405
Air traffic controllers, firefighters, law enforcement officers, and nuclear materials couriers.
The annuity of an air traffic controller retiring under § 842.207 or a law enforcement officer, firefighter or nuclear materials courier retiring under § 842.208 is—
(a) One and seven-tenths percent of average pay multiplied by 20 years; plus
(b) One percent of average pay multiplied by the years of service exceeding 20 years.
[52 FR 4475, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 65 FR 2524, Jan. 18, 2000]
§ 842.406
Members of Congress and Congressional employees.
(a) The annuity of a congressional employee or Member who is first covered by FERS on or before December 31, 2012, and who has had at least 5 years of service as a congressional employee, Member, or any combination thereof totaling 5 years is—
(1) One and seven-tenths percent of average pay multiplied by the total number of years of service as a Member and/or congressional employee not exceeding 20 years; plus
(2) One percent of average pay multiplied by the years of service other than that of a Member and/or congressional employee.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the annuity of a congressional employee or Member who is first covered by FERS after December 31, 2012, or Member re-elected with less than 5 years of FERS service after December 31, 2012, and who has had at least 5 years of service as a congressional employee, Member, or any combination thereof totaling 5 years is 1 percent of average pay multiplied by total service.
(c) The annuity of a congressional employee or Member is 1.1 percent of average pay multiplied by total service, provided the congressional employee or Member—
(1) Has completed 20 years of service; and
(2) Is at least age 62 at the time of separation on which entitlement to an annuity is based.
[88 FR 31469, May 17, 2023]
§ 842.407
Proration of annuity for part-time service.
The annuity of an employee whose service includes part-time service is computed in accordance with § 842.403, using the average pay based on the annual rate of basic pay for full-time service. This amount is then multiplied by the proration factor. The result is the annual rate of annuity before reductions for retirement before age 62, survivor benefits, or the reduction for an alternative form of annuity required by § 842.706.
[52 FR 22436, June 12, 1987]

# Subpart E—Annuity Supplement

# Source:
52 FR 4479, Feb. 11, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.501
Purpose.
This subpart regulates the annuity supplement payable to eligible employees under sections 8421 and 8421(a) of title 5, United State Code.
§ 842.502
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Age 62
means the day before an individual's sixty-second birthday.
Annuity Supplement
means the monthly benefit described in § 842.504.
Applicable exempt amount
and
earnings
have the same meanings as in section 203 of the Social Security Act.
Excess earnings
means 50 percent of an individual's earnings which exceed the applicable exempt amount during a calendar year or, if less, an amount equal to the total annuity supplement paid to the individual in that year, but does not include earnings prior to an individual's attainment of the minimum retirement age.
FERS
means chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Minimum retirement age
has the same meaning as in § 842.202.
Test year
means the calendar year immediately before the one in which any reductions required by 5 U.S.C. 8421a and § 842.505 are applied.
§ 842.503
Eligibility for annuity supplement.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an employee or Member receiving an annuity under any of the following sections is entitled to receive an annuity supplement:
(1) Section 842.204(a)(1) if the employee or Member has completed at least 30 years of service;
(2) Section 842.204(a)(2) governing retirement at age 60 with 20 years of service;
(3) Section 842.205 governing retirement at age 50 with 20 years of service or at any age during a major reorganization or reduction in force;
(4) Section 842.206 governing discontinued service retirement;
(5) Section 842.07 governing early retirement for air traffic controllers;
(6) Section 842.208 governing early retirement for law enforcement officers;
(7) Section 842.209 governing early retirement for Members of Congress;
(8) Section 842.210 governing early retirement for military reserve technicians; or
(9) Section 842.211 governing early retirement for members of the Senior Executive Service.
(b) An employee or Member who retires under any of the following sections before attaining the minimum retirement age is not entitled to receive an annuity supplement until he or she attains that age:
(1) Section 842.205;
(2) Section 842.206;
(3) Section 842.209; or
(4) Section 842.211, except that an individual entitled to an annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8414(a) for failure to be recertified as a senior executive shall be entitled to an annuity supplement without regard to the minimum retirement age.
(c) An employee or Member ceases to be entitled to an annuity supplement on the earlier of—
(1) The last day of the month in which the individual becomes age 62; or
(2) The last day of the month before the first month for which the individual would, upon proper application, be entitled to social security benefits.
[52 FR 4479, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 173, Jan. 3, 1991]
§ 842.504
Amount of annuity supplement.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, an annuity supplement is an
amount equal to the old-age insurance benefit payable under title II of the Social Security Act, multiplied by a fraction—
(1) The numerator of which is the annuitant's total service creditable under FERS, excluding military service not performed during an absence of leave without pay from civilian service, rounded to the nearest whole number of years not exceeding 40 years; and
(2) The denominator of which is 40.
(b)(1) The benefit referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is computed—
(i) As if the annuitant were age 62 and fully insured on January 1 of the year the annuity supplement commences;
(ii) Without regard to the Social Security earnings test (section 203 of the Social Security Act);
(iii) Without regard to the Social Security windfall elimination provisions (sections 215(a)(7) and 215(d)(5) of the Social Security Act); and
(iv) Using the actuarial reduction (section 202(q) of the Social Security Act) prescribed in the following table:
Year of Birth
Reduction (percent)
1937 and before
20
1938
20
5/6
1939
21
2/3
1940
22
1/2
1941
23
1/3
1942
24
1/6
1943-54
25
1955
25
5/6
1956
26
2/3
1957
27
1/2
1958
28
1/3
1959
29
1/6
1960 and later
30
(2) In computing the primary insurance amount—
(i) The number of elapsed years used to compute the number of benefit computation years does not include the years beginning with the year in which the annuity supplement commences;
(ii) For an employee or Member who retires under §§ 842.205, 842.206, 842.209, or 842.211 before reaching the minimum retirement age, wages in calendar years beginning after the date of separation on which the retirement is based, are deemed to be zero.
(iii) Only basic pay for full calendar years of service creditable under FERS is taken into account in computing the retiree's wages for a benefit computation year;
(iv) For a benefit computation year after age 21 during which the retiree did not perform a full calendar year of service creditable under FERS the retiree's wages are deemed to equal the product of—
(A) The National Average Wage Index (as determined by the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration) corresponding to that year, multiplied by
(B) A fraction—
(
1
) The numerator of which is the retiree's basic pay for his or her first full year of service creditable under FERS; and
(
2
) The denominator of which is the National Average Wage Index (as determined by the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration) corresponding to the retiree's first full year of service creditable under FERS.
[52 FR 4479, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 69 FR 69806, Dec. 1, 2004]
§ 842.505
Reduction in annuity supplement because of excess earnings.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section, the annuity supplement payable under § 842.504 is reduced by excess earnings in the test year, divided by twelve.
(2) Any annuity supplement payable during the year in which an individual loses entitlement to the annuity supplement by reason of § 842.503(c) is reduced by excess earnings in the test year divided by the number of months for which the annuity supplement is payable.
(b) Any reduction in the annuity supplement during a month because of excess earnings may not exceed the amount of annuity supplement payable during that month.
(c) Earnings and estimated earnings for each test year will be furnished by retirees in a form prescribed by OPM.
(d) Failure to furnish earnings and estimated earnings in the form or at the times prescribed by OPM is cause to suspend payment of the supplement until the annuitant establishes to the satisfaction of OPM that he/she continues to be eligible for the supplement.
(e) The reductions described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are not subject to the due process procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 8461(e).

# Subpart F—Survivor Elections

# Source:
52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.601
Purpose.
This subpart explains the survivor annuity elections available under FERS for retirees, and retiring employees and Members, and the actions that they must take to provide these survivor annuities.
§ 842.602
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Current spouse
means a living person who is married to the employee, Member, or retiree at the time of the employee's, Member's, or retiree's death.
Current spouse annuity
means a recurring benefit under FERS that is payable (after the employee's, Member's or retiree's death) to a current spouse who meets the requirements of § 843.303 of this chapter.
Deposit
means a deposit required to provide a survivor benefit.
Deposit,
as used in this subpart, does not include a service credit deposit or redeposit.
FERS
means chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
First regular monthly payment
means the first annuity check payable on a recurring basis (other than an estimated payment or an adjustment check) after OPM has initially adjudicated the regular rate of annuity payable under FERS and has paid the annuity accrued since the time of retirement. The
first regular monthly payment
is generally preceded by estimated payments before the claim can be adjudicated and by an adjustment check (including the difference between the estimated rate and the initially adjudicated rate).
Former spouse
means a living person who was married for at least 9 months to an employee, Member, or retiree who performed at least 18 months of creditable service under FERS. The “former spouse's” marriage to the employee must have been terminated prior to the death of the employee, Member, or retiree.
Former spouse annuity
means a recurring benefit under FERS that is payable to a former spouse after the employee's, Member's, or retiree's death.
Fully reduced annuity
means the recurring payments under FERS received by a retiree who has elected the maximum reduction in his or her annuity to provide a current spouse annuity and/or a former spouse annuity or annuities.
Insurable interest rate
means the recurring payments under FERS to a retiree who has elected a reduction in annuity to provide a survivor annuity to a person with an insurable interest in the retiree.
Marriage
has the same meaning as in § 843.102 of this chapter.
Member
means a Member of Congress.
Net annuity
means the net annuity as defined in § 838.103 of this chapter.
One-half reduced annuity
means the recurring payments under FERS received by a retiree who has elected one-half of the full reduction in his or her annuity to provide a partial current spouse annuity or a partial former spouse annuity or annuities.
Present value factor
means the amount of money (earning interest at an assumed rate) required at the time of annuity commencement to fund an annuity that starts at the rate of $1 a month and is payable in monthly installments for the annuitant's lifetime based on mortality rates for annuitants paid from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund; and increases each year at an assumed rate of cost-of-living adjustment. Assumed rates of interest, mortality, and cost-of-living adjustments used in computing the present value are those used by the Board of Actuaries of the Civil Service Retirement System for valuation of the Federal Employees' Retirement System based on dynamic assumptions. The present value factors are unisex factors obtained as a composite of sex-distinct present value factors. Separate present value factors apply for FERS annuities that receive cost-of-living adjustments before the
retiree attains age 62, versus FERS annuities that do not receive cost-of-living adjustments before the retiree attains age 62.
Qualifying court order
means a court order that awards a former spouse annuity and that satisfies the requirements of section 8445 of title 5, United States Code, for awarding a former spouse annuity.
Retiree
means a former employee or Member who is receiving recurring payments under FERS based on service by the employee or Member. “Retiree,” as used in this subpart, does not include a current spouse, former spouse, child, or person with an insurable interest receiving a survivor annuity.
Self-only annuity
means the recurring unreduced payments under FERS to a retiree with no survivor annuity payable to anyone.
Time of retirement
means the effective commencing date for retired employee's or Member's annuity. An employee or Member is unmarried at the time of retirement for all purposes under this subpart only if the employee or Member was unmarried on the date that the annuity begins to accrue.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 65419, Dec. 17, 1991; 57 FR 33598, July 29, 1992; 57 FR 54678, Nov. 20, 1992; 58 FR 52883, Oct. 13, 1993; 82 FR 49281, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 842.603
Election at time of retirement of a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity.
(a) A married employee or Member retiring under FERS will receive a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity unless—
(1) The employee or Member, with the consent of the current spouse, elects a self-only annuity, a one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity, or a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity, in accordance with § 842.604 or § 842.606; or
(2) The employee or Member elects a self-only annuity or a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity, and current spousal consent is waived in accordance with § 842.607.
(b) Qualifying court orders that award former spouse annuities prevent payment of current spouse annuities to the extent necessary to comply with the court order and § 842.613.
(c) The amount of the reduction to provide a current spouse annuity under this section is 10 percent of the retiree's annuity.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 54678, Nov. 20, 1992]
§ 842.604
Election at time of retirement of a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity.
(a) An unmarried employee or Member retiring under FERS may elect a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity or annuities.
(b) A married employee or Member retiring under FERS may elect a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity or annuities instead of a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity, if the current spouse consents to the election in accordance with § 842.606 or spousal consent is waived in accordance with § 842.607.
(c) An election under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is void to the extent that it—
(1) Conflicts with a qualifying court order; or
(2) Would cause the total of current spouse annuities and former spouse annuities payable based on the employee's or Member's service to exceed the maximum amount of survivor annuity that the employee or Member is entitled to provide under § 842.613.
(d) Any reduction in an annuity to provide a former spouse annuity will terminate on the first day of the month after the former spouse remarries before age 55 or dies, or the former spouse's eligibility for a former spouse annuity terminates under the terms of a qualifying court order, unless—
(1) The retiree elects, within 2 years after the former spouse's death or remarriage, to continue the reduction to provide a former spouse annuity for another former spouse, or to provide a current spouse annuity; or
(2) A qualifying court order requires the retiree to provide another former spouse annuity.
(e) Except as provided in § 842.614, the amount of the reduction to provide a former spouse annuity equals—
(1) Ten percent of the employee's or Member's annuity if the employee or Member elects a fully reduced annuity; or
(2) Five percent of the employee's or Member's annuity if the employee or Member elects a one-half reduced annuity.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 54678, Nov. 20, 1992]
§ 842.605
Election of insurable interest rate.
(a) At the time of retirement, an employee or Member in good health and who is applying for a non-disability annuity may elect an insurable interest rate. An election under this section does not exempt a married employee or Member from the provisions of § 842.603(a).
(b) An insurable interest rate may be elected by an employee or Member electing a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity or a former spouse annuity or annuities.
(c)(1) In the case of a married employee or Member, an election under this section may not be made on behalf of a current spouse unless that current spouse has consented to an election not to provide a current spouse annuity in accordance with § 842.603(a)(1).
(2) A consent (to an election not to provide a current spouse annuity in accordance with § 842.603(a)(1)) required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be eligible to be the beneficiary of an insurable interest rate is cancelled if—
(i) The retiree fails to qualify to receive the insurable interest rate; or
(ii) The retiree changes his or her election to receive an insurable interest rate under § 842.608; or
(iii) The retiree elects a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity under § 842.610.
(3) An election of a one-half reduced annuity under § 842.610(b) to provide a current spouse annuity for a current spouse who is the beneficiary of an insurable interest rate is void unless the spouse consents to the election.
(4) If a retiree who had elected an insurable interest rate to benefit a current spouse elects a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity (or with the consent of the spouse, a one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity) under § 842.610(b), the election of the insurable interest rate is cancelled.
(5)(i) A retiring employee or Member may not elect a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity and an insurable interest rate to benefit the same former spouse.
(ii) If a retiring employee or Member who is required by court order to provide a former spouse annuity elects an insurable interest rate to benefit the former spouse with the court-ordered entitlement—
(A) If the benefit based on the election is greater than or equal to the benefit based on the court order, the election of the insurable interest rate will satisfy the requirements of the court order as long as the insurable interest rate continues.
(B) If the benefit based on the election is less than the benefit based on the court order, the election of the insurable interest rate is void.
(iii) An election under § 842.611 of a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to benefit a former spouse by a retiree who elected and continues to receive an insurable interest rate to benefit that former spouse is void.
(d) To elect an insurable interest rate, an employee or Member must indicate the intention to make the election on the application for retirement and must submit a certificate of good health in a form prescribed by OPM.
(e) An insurable interest rate may be elected to provide a survivor benefit only for a person who has an insurable interest in the retiring employee or Member.
(1) An insurable interest is presumed to exist with—
(i) The current spouse;
(ii) The same-sex domestic partner;
(iii) A blood or adopted relative closer than first cousins;
(iv) A former spouse;
(v) A former same-sex domestic partner;
(vi) A person to whom the employee or Member is engaged to be married, or
a person with whom the employee or Member has agreed to enter into a same-sex domestic partnership;
(vii) A person with whom the employee or Member is living in a relationship that would constitute a common-law marriage in jurisdictions recognizing common-law marriages;
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “same-sex domestic partner” means a person in a domestic partnership with an employee or annuitant of the same sex, and the term “domestic partnership” is defined as a committed relationship between two adults, of the same sex, in which the partners—
(i) Are each other's sole domestic partner and intend to remain so indefinitely;
(ii) Maintain a common residence, and intend to continue to do so (or would maintain a common residence but for an assignment abroad or other employment-related, financial, or similar obstacle);
(iii) Are at least 18 years of age and mentally competent to consent to contract;
(iv) Share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's financial obligations;
(v) Are not married or joined in a civil union to anyone else;
(vi) Are not the domestic partner of anyone else;
(vii) Are not related in a way that, if they were of opposite sex, would prohibit legal marriage in the U.S. jurisdiction in which the domestic partnership was formed; and
(viii) Are willing to certify, if required by the agency, that they understand that willful falsification of any documentation required to establish that an individual is in a domestic partnership may lead to disciplinary action and the recovery of the cost of benefits received related to such falsification, as well as constitute a criminal violation under 18 U.S.C. 1001, and that the method for securing such certification, if required, shall be determined by the agency.
(3) When an insurable interest is not presumed, the employee or Member must submit affidavits from one or more persons with personal knowledge of the named beneficiary's having an insurable interest in the employee or Member. The affidavits must set forth the relationship, if any, between the named beneficiary and the employee or Member, the extent to which the named beneficiary is dependent on the employee or Member, and the reasons why the named beneficiary might reasonably expect to derive financial benefit from the continued life of the employee or Member.
(4) The employee or Member may be required to submit documentary evidence to establish the named beneficiary's date of birth.
(f) OPM will notify the employee or Member of initial monthly annuity rates with and without the election of an insurable interest rate and the initial rate payable to the named beneficiary. No election of an insurable interest rate is effective unless the employee or Member confirms the election in writing or dies no later than 60 days after the date of the notice described in this paragraph.
(g)(1) When an employee or Member elects both an insurable interest rate, and a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity, the combined reduction may exceed the maximum 40 percent reduction in the retired employee's or Member's annuity permitted under section 8420 of title 5, United States Code, applicable to insurable interest annuities.
(2) The additional reduction to provide a current spouse annuity or a former spouse annuity is not considered in determining the rate of annuity payable to a beneficiary of an insurable interest election.
(h)(1) Except as provided in § 842.604(d), if a retiree who is receiving a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity has also elected an insurable interest rate to benefit a current spouse and if the eligible former spouse remarries before age 55, dies, or loses eligibility under the terms of the court order, and no other former spouse is entitled to a survivor annuity based on an election made in accordance with § 842.611 or a qualifying court order, the retiree may elect, within 2 years after the former spouse's remarriage, death, or loss of eligibility under the terms of the court order, to convert the insurable interest rate to a fully
reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity, effective on the first day of the month following the event causing the former spouse to lose eligibility.
(2) An election under paragraph (h)(1) of this section cancels any consent not to receive a current spouse annuity required by paragraph (c) of this section for the current spouse to be eligible for an annuity under this section.
(3) When a former spouse receiving an annuity under section 8445 of title 5, United States Code, loses eligibility to that annuity, a beneficiary of an insurable interest rate who was the current spouse at both the time of the retiree's retirement and death may, within 2 years after the former spouse's death, remarriage, or loss of eligibility under the terms of the court order, elect to receive a current spouse annuity instead of the annuity he or she had been receiving.
The election is effective on the first day of the month following the event causing the former spouse to lose eligibility.
(i) Upon the death of the current spouse, a retiree whose annuity is reduced to provide both a current spouse annuity and an insurable interest benefit for a former spouse is not permitted to convert the insurable interest rate to a reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity.
(j) An employee or Member may name only one natural person as the named beneficiary of an insurable interest rate. OPM will not accept the designation of contingent beneficiaries and such a designation is void.
(k)(1) An election under this section is prospectively voided by an election of a fully reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity under § 842.612 that would benefit the same person.
(2)(i) If the current spouse is not the beneficiary of the election under this section, a retiree may prospectively void an election under this section at the time the retiree elects a reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity under § 842.612.
(ii) A retiree's election to void an election under paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section must be filed at the same time as the election under § 842.612.
(3) An annuity reduction under this section terminates on the first day of the month after the beneficiary of the insurable interest rate dies.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 54679, Nov. 20, 1992; 77 FR 42912, July 20, 2012]
§ 842.606
Election of a self-only annuity or a one-half reduced annuity by married employees and Members.
(a) A married employee may not elect a self-only annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity without the consent of the current spouse or a waiver of spousal consent by OPM in accordance with § 842.607.
(b) Evidence of spousal consent or a request for waiver of spousal consent must be filed on a form prescribed by OPM.
(c) The spousal consent form will require that a notary public or other official authorized to administer oaths certify that the current spouse presented identification, gave consent, signed or marked the form, and acknowledged that the consent was given freely in the notary's or official's presence.
(d) The form described in paragraph (c) of this section may be executed before a notary public, an official authorized by the law of the jurisdiction where executed to administer oaths, or an OPM employee designated for that purpose by the Associate Director.
(e) A request for waiver of the spousal consent requirement must be by letter and fully state the basis for the request.
(f) The amount of the reduction in the retiree's annuity for a one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity is 5 percent of the retiree's annuity.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 54679, Nov. 20, 1992]
§ 842.607
Waiver of spousal consent requirement.
(a) The spousal consent requirement will be waived upon a showing that the spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined. A request for waiver on this basis must be accompanied by—
(1) A judicial determination that the spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined; or
(2)(i) Affidavits by the employee or Member and two other persons, at least one of whom is not related to the employee or Member, attesting to the inability to locate the current spouse and stating the efforts made to locate the spouse; and
(ii) Documentary corroboration such as tax returns filed separately or newspaper stories about the spouse's disappearance.
(b) The spousal consent requirement will be waived based on exceptional circumstances if the employee or Member presents a judicial determination finding that—
(1) The case before the court involves a Federal employee who is in the process of retiring from Federal employment and the spouse of that employee;
(2) The nonemployee spouse has been given notice and an opportunity to be heard concerning this order;
(3) The court has considered sections 8416(a) of title 5, United States Code, and this section as they relate to waiver of the spousal consent requirement for a married Federal employee to elect an annuity without a reduction to provide a survivor benefit to a spouse at retirement; and
(4) The court finds that exceptional circumstances exist justifying waiver of the nonemployee spouse's consent.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 54679, Nov. 20, 1992]
§ 842.608
Changes of election before final adjudication.
An employee or Member may name a new survivor or change his or her election of type of annuity if, not later than 30 days after the date of the first regular monthly payment, the named survivor dies or the employee or Member files with OPM a new written election. All required evidence of spousal consent or justification for waiver of spousal consent, if applicable, must accompany any new written election under this section.
[56 FR 65419, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 842.609
[Reserved]
§ 842.610
Changes of election after final adjudication.
(a) Except as provided in § 842.611, § 842.612, or paragraph (b) of this section, an employee or Member may not revoke or change the election or name another survivor later than 30 days after the date of the first regular monthly payment.
(b)(1) Except as provided in § 842.605 and paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, a retiree who was married at the time of retirement and has elected a self-only annuity, a one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity, a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity, or an insurable interest rate may elect, no later than 18 months after the time of retirement, an annuity reduction or an increased annuity reduction to provide a current spouse annuity.
(2) A current spouse annuity based on an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section cannot be paid if it will, when combined with any former spouse annuity or annuities that are required by court order, exceed the maximum survivor annuity permitted under § 842.613.
(3) To make an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the retiree must pay, in full no later than 18 months after the time of retirement, a deposit equal to the sum of the monthly differences between the annuity paid to the retiree and the annuity that would have been paid if the additional annuity reduction elected under paragraph (b)(1) of this section had been in effect since the time of retirement, plus—
(i) If the election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section changes the annuity from a self only annuity to a fully reduced annuity, 24.5 percent of the retiree's annual annuity, plus 6 percent interest on both; or
(ii) If the election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section changes the annuity from a self only annuity to a one-half reduced annuity or from a one-half reduced annuity to a fully reduced annuity, 12.25 percent of the retiree's annual annuity, plus 6 percent interest on both.
(4) If a retiree makes an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and is prevented from paying the deposit within the 18-month time limit because OPM did not send him or her a notice of the amount of the deposit at least 30 days before the time limit expires, the time limit for making the deposit will be extended 30 days after OPM sends the notice of the amount of the deposit.
(5) An election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section cancels any spousal consent under § 842.603.
(6) An election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is void unless filed with OPM before the retiree dies.
(7) If a retiree who had elected a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity (or annuities) makes an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section which would cause the combined current spouse annuity and former spouse annuity (or annuities) to exceed the maximum allowed under § 842.613, the former spouse annuity (or annuities) must be reduced to not exceed the maximum allowable under § 842.613.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 65419, Dec. 17, 1991; 57 FR 54680, Nov. 20, 1992]
§ 842.611
Post-retirement election of a fully reduced annuity or one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, when a retiree's marriage terminates after retirement, the retiree may elect in writing a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity. Such an election must be filed with OPM within 2 years after the retiree's marriage to the former spouse terminates.
(b)(1) Qualifying court orders prevent payment of former spouse annuities to the extent necessary to comply with the court order and § 842.613.
(2) A retiree who elects a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity may not elect to provide a former spouse annuity in an amount that either—
(i) Is smaller than the amount required by a qualifying court order; or
(ii) Would cause the sum of all current and former spouse annuities based on a retiree's elections under §§ 842.603, 842.604, 842.612 and this section to exceed the maximum allowed under § 842.613.
(3) An election under this section is void—
(i) In the case of a married retiree, if the current spouse does not consent to the election on a form as described in § 842.606(c) and spousal consent is not waived by OPM in accordance with § 842.607; or
(ii) To the extent that it provides a former spouse annuity for the spouse who was married to the retiree at the time of retirement in an amount that is inconsistent with any joint designation or waiver made at the time of retirement under § 842.603(a)(1) or (a)(2).
(c) An election under this section is not permitted unless the retiree agrees to deposit the amount equal to the difference between the amount of annuity actually paid to the retiree and the amount of annuity that would have been paid if the reduction elected under paragraph (a) of this section had been in effect continuously since the time of retirement, plus 6 percent annual interest (computed under § 841.107 of this chapter) from the date when each difference occurred.
(d) Any reduction in an annuity to provide a former spouse annuity will terminate on the first day of the month after the former spouse remarries before age 55 or dies, or the former spouse's eligibility for a former spouse annuity terminates under the terms of a qualifying court order, unless—
(1) The retiree elects, within 2 years after the event causing the former spouse to lose eligibility, to continue the reduction to provide or increase a former spouse annuity for another former spouse, or to provide or increase a current spouse annuity; or
(2) A qualifying court order requires the retiree to provide another former spouse annuity.
(e) The amount of the reduction to provide one or more former spouse annuities or a combination of a current spouse annuity and one or more former spouse annuities under this section equals—
(1) Ten percent of the employee's or Member's annuity if the employee or Member elects a fully reduced annuity; or
(2) Five percent of the employee's or Member's annuity if the employee or Member elects a one-half reduced annuity.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 54680, Nov. 20, 1992]
§ 842.612
Post-retirement election of a fully reduced annuity or one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a retiree who was unmarried at the time of retirement may elect, within 2 years after a post-retirement marriage, a fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a retiree who was married at the time of retirement may elect, within 2 years after a post-retirement marriage—
(1) A fully reduced annuity or a one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity if—
(i) The retiree was awarded a fully reduced annuity under § 842.603 at the time of retirement; or
(ii) The election at the time of retirement was made with a waiver of spousal consent in accordance with § 842.607; or
(iii) The marriage at the time of retirement was to a person other than the spouse who would receive a current spouse annuity based on the post-retirement election; or
(2) A one-half reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity if—
(i) The retiree elected a one-half reduced annuity under § 842.606 at the time of retirement;
(ii) The election at the time of retirement was made with spousal consent in accordance with § 842.606; and
(iii) The marriage at the time of retirement was to the same person who would receive a current spouse annuity based on the post-retirement election.
(c)(1) Qualifying court orders prevent payment of current spouse annuities to the extent necessary to comply with the court order and § 842.613.
(2) If an election under this section causes the total of all current and former spouse annuities provided by a qualifying court order or elected under § 842.604, § 842.611, or this section to exceed the maximum survivor annuity permitted under § 842.613, OPM will accept the election but will pay the portion in excess of the maximum only when permitted by § 842.613(c).
(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) or (e)(3) of this section, a retiree making an election under this section must deposit an amount equal to the difference between the amount of annuity actually paid to the retiree and the amount of annuity that would have been paid if the reduction elected under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section had been in effect continuously since the time of retirement, plus 6 percent annual interest, computed under § 841.606 of this chapter, from the date when each difference occurred.
(2) An election under this section may be made without deposit, if that election prospectively voids an election of an insurable interest annuity.
(e)(1) An election under this section is irrevocable when received by OPM.
(2) An election under this section is effective when the marriage duration requirements of § 843.303 of this chapter are satisfied.
(3) If an election under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section does not become effective, no deposit under paragraph (d) of this section is required.
(4) If payment of the deposit under paragraph (d) of this section is not required because the election never became effective and if some or all of the deposit has been paid, the amount paid will be returned to the retiree, or, if the retiree has died, to the person who would be entitled to any lump-sum benefits under the order of precedence in section 8424 of title 5, United States Code.
(f) Any reduction in an annuity to provide a current spouse annuity will terminate effective on the first day of the month after the marriage to the current spouse ends, unless—
(1) The retiree elects, within 2 years after a divorce terminates the marriage, to continue the reduction to provide for a former spouse annuity; or
(2) A qualifying court order requires the retiree to provide a former spouse annuity.
(g) The amount of the reduction to provide a current spouse annuity under this section equals—
(1) Ten percent of the employee's or Member's annuity if the employee or Member elects a fully reduced annuity; or
(2) Five percent of the employee's or Member's annuity if the employee or Member elects a one-half reduced annuity.
(h) If a retiree who is receiving a reduced annuity to provide a former spouse annuity and who has remarried that former spouse (before the former spouse attained age 55) dies, the retiree will be deemed to have elected to continue the reduction to provide a current spouse annuity unless the retiree requests (or has requested) in writing that OPM terminate the reduction.
[57 FR 54680, Nov. 20, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 14202, Mar. 16, 1995]
§ 842.613
Division of a survivor annuity.
(a) The maximum combined total of all current and former spouse annuities (not including any benefits based on an election of an insurable interest rate) payable based on the service of a former employee or Member equals 50 percent of the rate of the self-only annuity that otherwise would have been paid to the employee, Member, or retiree.
(b) By using the elections available under this subpart or to comply with a court order under subpart I of part 841 of this chapter, a survivor annuity may be divided into a combination of former spouse annuities and a current spouse annuity so long as the aggregate total of the current and former spouse annuities does not exceed the maximum limitation in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Upon termination of former spouse annuity payments because of death or remarriage of the former spouse, or by operation of a court order, the current spouse will be entitled to a current spouse annuity or an increased current spouse annuity if—
(1) The employee or Member died while employed in a position covered under FERS; or
(2) The current spouse was married to the employee or Member continuously from the time of retirement and did not consent to an election not to provide a current spouse annuity; or
(3) The current spouse married a retiree after retirement and the retiree elected, under § 842.612, to provide a current spouse annuity for that spouse in the event that the former spouse annuity payments terminate.
§ 842.614
Computation of partial annuity reduction.
If a court order or the death of a current or former spouse results in providing less than the maximum permitted survivor reduction under § 842.613, the reduction in the employee's annuity will be 10 percent of the amount of the employee's annuity on which the survivor benefits will be computed (called the “base”).
§ 842.615
Deposits required.
(a) The deposits required to elect reduced annuities under §§ 842.610, 842.611, and 842.612 are not annuity overpayments and their collection is not subject to waiver.
(b)
Actuarial reduction in annuity of retirees who make post-retirement elections to provide a current spouse annuity or a former spouse annuity.
(1) The annuity reduction required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section applies to all retirees who are required to pay deposits under § 842.611 or § 842.612 and have not paid any portion of the deposit prior to October 1, 1993, or from annuity accruing before that date.
(2) Retirees described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must have a permanent annuity reduction computed under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(3) A reduction under paragraph (b)(2) of this section commences on the same date as the annuity reduction under § 842.611 or § 842.612.
(4) The annuity reduction under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is equal to the lesser of—
(i) The amount of the deposit under § 842.611 or § 842.612 divided by the present value factor for the retiree's
age on the commencing date of the reduction under paragraph (b)(3) of this section (plus any previous reduction(s) in the retiree's annuity required under paragraph (b)(2) or (c)(2) of this section); or
(ii) Twenty-five percent of the rate of the retiree's self-only annuity on the commencing date of the reduction (under paragraph (b)(3) of this section).
(5)(i) The reduction under paragraph (b)(2) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section terminates on the date that the retiree dies.
(ii) If payment of a retiree's annuity is suspended or terminated and later reinstated, or if a new annuity becomes payable, OPM will increase the amount of the original reduction computed under paragraph (b)(4) or paragraph (c)(4) of this section by any cost-of-living adjustments under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code, occurring between the commencing date of the original reduction and the commencing date of the reinstated or new annuity (but the adjusted reduction may not exceed 25 percent of the rate of the reinstated or new self-only annuity).
(c)
Post-retirement survivor election deposits that were partially paid before October 1, 1993.
(1) The annuity reduction required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies to all retirees who are required to pay deposits under § 842.611 or § 842.612 and have paid any portion (but not all) of the deposit prior to October 1, 1993, or from annuity accruing before that date.
(2) Retirees described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must have a permanent annuity reduction computed under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(3) A reduction under paragraph (c)(2) of this section commences on October 1, 1993.
(4) The annuity reduction under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is equal to the lesser of—
(i) The amount of the principal balance remaining to be paid on October 1, 1993, divided by the present value factor for the retiree's age on October 1, 1993; or
(ii) Twenty-five percent of the rate of the retiree's self-only annuity on October 1, 1993.
(5)(i) The reduction under paragraph (c)(2) of this section terminates on the date that the retiree dies.
(ii) If payment of a retiree's annuity is suspended or terminated and later reinstated, or if a new annuity becomes payable, OPM will increase the amount of the original reduction computed under paragraph (b)(4) or paragraph (c)(4) of this section by any cost-of-living adjustments under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code, occurring between the commencing date of the original reduction and the commencing date of the reinstated or new annuity (but the adjusted reduction may not exceed 25 percent of the rate of the reinstated or new self-only annuity).
(d) For retirees who die before October 1, 1993, any unpaid portion of the deposit required under § 842.611 or § 842.612 will be collected from the survivor annuity (for which the election required the deposit) before OPM pays any survivor annuity.
[52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 52883, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 842.616
Publication of present value factors.
When OPM publishes in the
Federal Register
notice of normal cost percentages under § 841.407, it will also publish updated present value factors.
[82 FR 49282, Oct. 25, 2017]

# Subpart G—Alternative Forms of Annuities

# Source:
52 FR 2067, Jan. 16, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.701
Purpose.
This subpart explains the benefits available to employees and Members who elect alternative forms of annuity under section 8420a of title 5, United States Code.
§ 842.702
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Alternative form of annuity
means the benefit elected under § 842.705.
Current spouse annuity
has the same meaning as in § 842.602.
Date of final adjudication
means the date 30 days after the date of the first
regular monthly payment as defined in § 831.603.
Former spouse annuity
has the same meaning as in § 842.602.
Present value factor
has the same meaning in this subpart as defined in § 842.602.
Time of retirement
has the same meaning as in § 842.602.
[52 FR 2067, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 11635, Apr. 8, 1988; 82 FR 49282, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 842.703
Eligibility.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, an employee or Member who retires under any provision of subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, may elect an alternative form of annuity instead of any other benefits under the subchapter.
(b) An employee or Member who, at the time of retirement has a former spouse who is entitled to a portion of the employee's or Member's retirement benefits or a former spouse annuity under a court order acceptable for processing as defined by § 838.103 of this chapter or a qualifying court order as defined in § 838.1003 of this chapter may not elect an alternative form of annuity.
(c) An employee or Member who is married at the time of retirement may not elect an alternative form of annuity unless the employee's or Member's spouse specifically consents to the election. OPM may waive spousal consent only under the conditions prescribed by § 842.607.
(d)(1)(i) An individual whose annuity commences after December 1, 1990, and before October 1, 1994, may elect an alternative form of annuity only if that individual is—
(A) An employee or Member who meets the conditions and fulfills the requirements described in § 842.707(c) (2) and (3); or
(B) An employee who is separated involuntarily other than for cause on charges of misconduct or delinquency;
(ii) An individual whose annuity commences on or after October 1, 1994, may elect an alternative form of annuity only if that individual is an employee or Member who meets the conditions and fulfills the requirements described in § 842.707(c) (2) and (3).
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the term “employee” does not include—
(i) Members of Congress;
(ii) Individuals in positions in the Executive Schedule under sections 5312 through 5317 of title 5, United States Code;
(iii) Presidential appointees under section 105(a)(1), 106(a)(1), or 107 (a)(1) or (b)(1) of title 3, United States Code, if the maximum basic pay for such positions is at or above the rate for Executive Schedule, level V;
(iv) Noncareer appointees in the Senior Executive Service or noncareer members of the Senior Foreign Service; and
(v) Any individual in a position that is excepted from the competitive service because of its confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an employee whose annuity commences after December 1, 1990, and before December 2, 1991, may elect an alternative form of annuity if that individual—
(i)(A) Was ordered to active military duty (other than for training) before December 1, 1990, in connection with Operation Desert Shield; or
(B) Is an employee of the Department of Defense who is certified by the Secretary of Defense to have performed, after November 30, 1990, duties essential to support Operation Desert Shield, and the certification is submitted to OPM in a form prescribed by OPM; and
(ii) Would have been eligible, as of November 30, 1990, to elect an alternative form of annuity under paragraph (a) of this section.
[52 FR 2067, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 6551, Feb. 19, 1991; 56 FR 43866, Sept. 5, 1991; 57 FR 33598, July 29, 1992; 60 FR 54587, Oct. 25, 1995]
§ 842.704
Election requirements.
(a) The election of an alternative form of annuity and evidence of spousal consent must be filed on a form prescribed by OPM within the time limit prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The form will require that a
notary public or other official authorized to administer oaths certify that the current spouse presented identification, gave consent to the specific election as executed by the retiree, signed or marked the form, and acknowledged that the consent was given freely in the notary's or official's presence.
(b) An election of the alternative form of annuity must be in writing and received by OPM on or before the date of final adjudication. After the date of final adjudication, an election of the alternative form of annuity is irrevocable.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d), an annuitant who dies before the time limit prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is deemed to have made an affirmative election under § 842.703(a) with a reduced annuity to provide a current spouse annuity, regardless of any election completed under § 842.606, and the lump-sum credit will be paid in accordance with the order of precedence described in section 8424 of title 5, United States Code.
(d) If an annuitant described in paragraph (c) has completed an election under § 842.604 (a) or (b)—
(1) The lump-sum credit will be paid in accordance with the order of precedence described in section 8424 of title 5, United States Code; and
(2) The election under § 842.604 (a) or (b) will be honored.
[53 FR 11635, Apr. 8, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 6552, Feb. 19, 1991; 60 FR 54587, Oct. 25, 1995]
§ 842.705
Alternative forms of annuities available.
(a) An employee or Member who is eligible to make an election under § 842.703 may elect to receive his or her lump-sum credit, excluding interest, plus an annuity computed in accordance with sections 8415 and 8421 of title 5, United States Code, for which they qualify (including any reduction for survivor benefits) and reduced under § 842.706.
(b) A retired employee or Member who elected an alternative form of annuity is subject to all provisions of subchapters II and IV of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, as would otherwise apply to a retired employee or Member who did not elect an alternative form of annuity. An individual who has elected an alternative form of annuity is not eligible to apply for disability annuity under subchapter V of such chapter.
[52 FR 2067, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 11635, Apr. 8, 1988]
§ 842.706
Computation of alternative form of annuity.
(a) To compute the beginning rate of annuity payable to a retiree who elects an alternative form of annuity, OPM will first compute the monthly rate of annuity (and annuity supplement, if any), otherwise payable under subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, including all reductions provided under the subchapter other than those in section 8420a of that title. That monthly rate is then reduced by an amount equal to the retiree's lump-sum credit, excluding interest, divided by the applicable present value factor for the retiree's attained age (in full years) at the time of retirement. The reduced monthly rate is then rounded to the next lowest dollar and becomes the rate of annuity payable.
(b) OPM will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing any proposed adjustments in present value factors at least 30 days before the effective date of the adjustments.
§ 842.707
Partial deferred payment of the lump-sum credit if annuity commences after January 3, 1988, and before October 1, 1989.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if the annuity of an employee or Member commences after January 3, 1988, and before October 1, 1989, the lump-sum credit payable under § 842.705 is payable to the individual, or his or her survivors, according to the following schedule:
(1) Sixty percent of the lump-sum credit is payable at the time of retirement, and
(2) Forty percent is payable, with interest determined under section 8334(e)(3) of title 5, United States Code, one year after the time of retirement.
(b) If an employee or Member whose annuity commences after January 3,
1988, and before October 1, 1989, dies before the time limit prescribed in § 842.704(b)(2), that individual is subject to § 842.704 (c) or (d), but the lump-sum credit will be paid in accordance with the schedule in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) An annuitant is exempt from the deferred payment schedule under paragraph (a) of this section if the individual—
(1) Separates involuntarily, other than for cause on charges of delinquency or misconduct, or
(2) Has, at the time of retirement, a life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition.
(3)(i) For the purpose of this section,
life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition
means a medical condition so severe as to reasonably limit an individual's probable life expectancy to less than 2 years.
(ii) The existence of one of the following medical conditions is
prima facie
evidence of a life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition:
(A) Metastatic and/or inoperable neoplasms.
(B) Aortic stenosis (severe).
(C) Class IV cardiac disease with congestive heart failure.
(D) Respiratory failure.
(E) Cor pulmonale with respiratory failure.
(F) Emphysema with respiratory failure.
(G) [Reserved]
(H) Severe cardiomyopathy—Class IV.
(I) Aplastic anemia.
(J) Uncontrolled hypertension with hypertensive encephalopathy.
(K) Cardiac aneurysm not amenable to surgical treatment.
(L) Agranulocytosis.
(M) Severe hepatic failure.
(N) Severe hypoxic brain damage.
(O) Severe portal hypertension with esophageal varices.
(P) AIDS (Active—Not AIDS Related Complex or only seropositivity).
(Q) Life-threatening infections (encephalitis, meningitis, rabies, etc.).
(R) Scleroderma with severe esophageal involvement.
(S) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (rapidly progressive).
(T) Hemiplegia with life threatening complications.
(U) Quadriplegia with life threatening complications.
(iii) Evidence of the existence of a life-threatening affliction or other critical medical condition must be certified by a physician and sent to OPM on or before the date the annuitant elects to receive an alternative form of annuity. For the purpose of this section, “physician” has the same meaning given that term in § 339.102 of this chapter.
(iv) If a medical condition other than those listed in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section is claimed as a basis for exemption from the deferred payment schedule, OPM will review the physician's certification to determine whether the cited condition is life-threatening or critical.
(v) The cost of providing medical documentation under this paragraph rests with the employee or Member, unless OPM exercises its choice of physician.
[53 FR 11635, Apr. 8, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 54587, Oct. 25, 1995]
§ 842.708
Partial deferred payment of the lump-sum credit if annuity commences after December 2, 1989, and before October 1, 1995.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if the annuity of a retiree commences after December 2, 1989, and before October 1, 1994, the lump-sum credit payable under § 842.705 is payable to the individual, or his or her survivors, according to the following schedule:
(1) Fifty percent of the lump-sum credit is payable at the time of retirement, and
(2) Fifty percent is payable, with interest determined under section 8334(e)(3) of title 5, United States Code, one year after the time of retirement, except if the payment date of the amount specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section was after December 4, 1989, payment with interest will be made in the calendar year following the calendar year in which the payment specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section was made.
(b) If a retiree whose annuity commences after December 2, 1989, and before October 1, 1994, dies before the
time limit prescribed in § 842.704(b)(2), that individual is subject to § 842.704 (c) or (d), but the lump-sum credit will be paid in accordance with the schedule in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)(1) A retiree is exempt from the deferred payment schedule under paragraph (a) of this section if the individual meets the conditions, and fulfills the requirements, described in § 842.707(c).
(2)(i) A retiree who is exempt from the deferred payment schedule may waive that exemption by notifying OPM, in writing, on or before the date he or she elects to receive the alternative form of annuity.
(ii) Paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section does not apply to an individual whose annuity commences after December 1, 1990, if that individual's eligibility to elect an alternative form of annuity is pursuant to § 842.703(d)(1)(i)(A).
(iii) A waiver under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section cannot be revoked.
[56 FR 6552, Feb. 19, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 54587, Oct. 25, 1995]

# Subpart H—Law Enforcement Officers, Firefighters, and Air Traffic Controllers

# Source:
52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.801
Applicability and purpose.
(a) This subpart contains regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to supplement—
(1) 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) and (e), which establish special retirement eligibility for law enforcement officers, members of the Capitol Police and Supreme Court Police, firefighters, nuclear materials couriers, customs and border protection officers, and air traffic controllers employed under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS);
(2) 5 U.S.C. 8422(a), pertaining to deductions;
(3) 5 U.S.C. 8423(a), pertaining to Government contributions; and
(4) 5 U.S.C. 8425, pertaining to mandatory retirement.
(b) The regulations in this subpart are issued pursuant to the authority given to OPM in 5 U.S.C. 8461(g) to prescribe regulations to carry out the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, in 5 U.S.C. 1104 to delegate authority for personnel management to the heads of agencies and pursuant to the authority given the Director of OPM in section 535(d) of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008, Public Law 110-161, 121 Stat. 2042.
[76 FR 42000, July 18, 2011]
§ 842.802
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Agency head
means, for the executive branch agencies, the head of an executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105; for the legislative branch, the Secretary of State, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the head of any other legislative branch agency; for the judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts; for the Postal Service, the Postmaster General; and for any other independent establishment that is an entity of the Federal Government, the head of the establishment. For the purpose of an approval of coverage under this subpart,
agency head
is also deemed to include the designated representative of the head of an executive department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101, except that, for provisions dealing with law enforcement officers and firefighters, the designated representative must be a department headquarters-level official who reports directly to the executive department head, or to the deputy department head, and who is the sole such representative for the entire department. For the purpose of a denial coverage under this subpart,
agency head
is also deemed to include the designated representative of the
agency head
, as defined in the first sentence of this definition, at any level within the agency.
Air traffic controller
means a civilian employee of the Department of Transportation or the Department of Defense in an air traffic control facility or flight service station facility who is actively engaged in the separation and control of air traffic or in providing preflight, inflight, or airport advisory service to aircraft operators, or who is the immediate supervisor of such an employee, as provided by 5 U.S.C.
8401(35)(A). Also included in this definition is a civilian employee of the Department of Transportation or the Department of Defense who is the immediate supervisor of a person described under 5 U.S.C. 2109(1)(B) (
i.e.
, a second-level supervisor), as provided by 5 U.S.C. 8401(35)(B).
Detention duties
means duties that require frequent direct contact in the detention, direction, supervision, inspection, training, employment, care, transportation, or rehabilitation of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States or the District of Columbia or offenses against the punitive articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code). (See 5 U.S.C. 8401(17).)
Employee
means an employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 8401(11).
Firefighter
means an employee occupying a rigorous position, whose primary duties are to perform work directly connected with the control and extinguishment of fires, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 8401(14). Also included in this definition is an employee occupying a rigorous firefighter position who moves to a supervisory or administrative position and meets the conditions of § 842.803(b).
First-level supervisors
are employees classified as supervisors who have direct and regular contact with the employees they supervise. First-level supervisors do
not
have subordinate supervisors. A first-level supervisor may occupy a rigorous position or a secondary position if the appropriate definition is met.
Frequent direct contact
means personal, immediate, and regularly-assigned contact with detainees while performing detention duties, which is repeated and continual over a typical work cycle.
Law enforcement officer
means an employee occupying a rigorous position, whose primary duties are the investigation, apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States, or the protection of officials of the United States against threats to personal safety, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 8401(17). Also included in this definition is an employee occupying a rigorous law enforcement officer position who moves to a supervisory or administrative position and meets the conditions of § 842.803(b).
Law enforcement officer
also includes, as required by 5 U.S.C. 8401(17)(B), an employee of the Department of the Interior or the Department of the Treasury who occupies a position that, but for enactment of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, would be subject to the District of Columbia Police and Firefighters' Retirement System, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate. Except as provided above, the definition does not include an employee whose primary duties involve maintaining order, protecting life and property, guarding against or inspecting for violations of law, or investigating persons other than those who are suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States.
Primary duties
means those duties of a position that—
(a) Are paramount in influence or weight; that is, constitute the basic reasons for the existence of the position;
(b) Occupy a substantial portion of the individual's working time over a typical work cycle; and
(c) Are assigned on a regular and recurring basis.
Duties that are of an emergency, incidental, or temporary nature cannot be considered “primary” even if they meet the substantial portion of time criterion. In general, if an employee spends an average of at least 50 percent of his or her time performing a duty or group of duties, they are his or her primary duties.
Rigorous position
means a position the duties of which are so rigorous that employment opportunities should, as soon as reasonably possible, be limited (through establishment of a maximum entry age and physical qualifications) to young and physically vigorous individuals whose primary duties are—
(a) To perform work directly connected with controlling and extinguishing fires; or
(b) Investigating, apprehending, or detaining individuals suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal
laws of the United States or protecting the personal safety of United States officials.
The condition in this definition that employment opportunities be limited does not apply with respect to an employee who moves directly (i.e., without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from one rigorous law enforcement officer position to another or from one rigorous firefighter position to another.
Rigorous position
is also deemed to include a position held by a law enforcement officer as identified in 5 U.S.C. 8401(17)(B) (related to certain employees in the Departments of the Interior and the Treasury).
Secondary position
means a position that—
(a) Is clearly in the law enforcement or firefighting field;
(b) Is in an organization having a law enforcement or firefighting mission; and
(c) Is either—
(1) Supervisory; that is, a position whose primary duties are as a first-level supervisor or law enforcement officers or firefighters in rigorous positions; or
(2) Administrative; that is, an executive, managerial, technical, semiprofessional, or professional position for which experience in a rigorous law enforcement or firefighting position, or equivalent experience outside the Federal Government, is a mandatory prerequisite.
[52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32689, July 23, 1992; 60 FR 3339, Jan. 17, 1995; 66 FR 38525, July 25, 2001; 70 FR 32710, June 6, 2005; 70 FR 42254, July 22, 2005]
§ 842.803
Conditions for coverage.
(a)
Rigorous positions.
(1) An employee's service in a position that has been determined by the employing agency head to be a rigorous law enforcement officer or firefighter position is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
(2) An employee who is not in a rigorous position, nor covered while in a secondary position, and who is detailed or temporarily promoted to a rigorous position is not covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
(3) A first-level supervisor position may be determined to be a rigorous position if it satisfies the conditions set forth in § 842.802.
(b)
Secondary positions.
(1) An employee's service in a position that has been determined by the employing agency head to be a secondary law enforcement officer or firefighter position is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), if all of the following criteria are met:
(i) The employee, while covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C 8412(d), moves directly (that is, without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from a rigorous position to a secondary position;
(ii) The employee has completed 3 years of service in a rigorous position, including any such service during which no FERS deductions were withheld; and
(iii) The employee has been continuously employed in a secondary position or positions since moving from a rigorous position without a break in service exceeding 3 days, except that a break in employment in secondary positions that begins with an involuntary separation (not for cause), within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8414(b)(1)(A), is not considered in determining whether the service in secondary positions is continuous for this purpose.
(2) An employee who is not a rigorous position, nor covered while in a secondary position, and who is detailed or temporarily promoted to a secondary position is not covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
(c)
Air traffic controller.
An employee's service in a position that has been determined to be an air traffic controller position by the employing agency head is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(e).
(d) Except as specifically provided in this subpart, an agency head's authority under this section cannot be delegated.
[52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32690, July 23, 1992]
§ 842.804
Evidence.
(a) An agency head's determination under § 842.803(a) (finding that a position is a rigorous position) must be based solely on the official position description of the position in question and any other official description of
duties and qualifications. The official documentation for the position should, as soon as is reasonably possible, establish that the primary duties of the position are so rigorous that the agency does not allow individuals to enter the position if they are over a certain age or if they fail to meet certain physical qualifications (that is, physical requirements and/or medical standards), as determined by the employing agency head based on the personnel management needs of the agency for the positions in question.
(b) A determination under §§ 842.803 (b) or (c) must be based on the official position description and any other evidence deemed appropriate by the agency head for making the determination.
(c) If an employee is in a position not subject to the one-half percent higher withholding rate of 5 U.S.C. 8422(a)(2)(B), and the employee does not, within 6 months after entering the position or after any significant change in the position, formally and in writing seek a determination from the employing agency that his position is properly covered by the higher withholding rate, the agency head's determination that the service was not so covered at the time of the service is presumed to be correct. This presumption may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence that the employee was unaware of his or her status or was prevented by cause beyond his or her control from requesting that the official status be changed at the time the service was performed.
[52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32690, July 23, 1992]
§ 842.805
Withholding and contributions.
(a) During service covered under the conditions established by § 842.803 (a), (b), or (c), the employing agency will deduct and withhold from the employee's base pay the amounts required under 5 U.S.C. 8422(a)(2)(B) and submit that amount to OPM in accordance with payroll office instructions issued by OPM.
(b) During service described in paragraph (a) of this section, the employing agency must submit to OPM the Government contributions required under 5 U.S.C. 8423(a)(1)(B) in accordance with payroll office instructions issued by OPM.
(c) If the correct withholdings and/or Government contributions are not timely submitted to OPM for any reason whatsover, including cases in which it is finally determined that past service of a current or former employee was subject to the higher deduction and Government contribution rates, the employing agency must correct the error by submitting the correct amounts (including both employee and agency shares) to OPM as soon as possible. Even if the agency waives collection of the overpayment of pay under any waiver authority that may be available for this purpose, such as 5 U.S.C. 5584, or otherwise fails to collect the debt, the correct amount must still be submitted to OPM as soon as possible.
(d) Upon proper application from an employee, former employee or eligible survivor of a former employee, an employing agency or former employing agency will pay a refund or erroneous additional withholdings for service that is found not to have been covered service. If an individual has paid to OPM a deposit or redeposit, including the additional amount required for covered service, and the deposit is later determined to be erroneous because the service was not covered service, OPM will pay the refund, upon proper application, to the individual, without interest.
(e) The additional employee withholding and agency contributions for covered service properly made are not separately refundable, even in the event that the employee or his or her survivor does not qualify for a special annuity computation under 5 U.S.C. 8415(d).
(f) While an employee who does not hold a rigorous, secondary, or air traffic controller position is detailed or temporarily promoted to such a position, the additional withholdings and agency contributions will not be made.
(g) While an employee who holds a rigorous, secondary, or air traffic controller position is detailed or temporarily promoted to a position that is not a rigorous, secondary, or air traffic controller position, the additional
withholdings and agency contributions will continue to be made.
[52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32690, July 23, 1992; 60 FR 3340, Jan. 17, 1995]
§ 842.806
Mandatory separation.
(a) The mandatory separation provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8425 apply to all law enforcement officers and firefighters, including those in secondary positions, and air traffic controllers, with the exception of a civilian employee of the Department of Transportation or the Department of Defense who is the immediate supervisor of a person described under 5 U.S.C. 2109(1)(B) (
i.e.
, a second-level supervisor). A mandatory separation under 5 U.S.C. 8425 is not an adverse action under part 752 of this chapter or a removal action under part 359 of this chapter.
(b) Exemptions from mandatory separation are subject to the conditions set forth under 5 U.S.C. 8425. An exemption may be granted at the sole discretion of the head of the employing agency or by the President in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8425(c).
(c) In the event that an employee is separated mandatorily under 5 U.S.C. 8425, or is separated for optional retirement under 5 U.S.C. 8412 (d) or (e), and OPM finds that all or part of the minimum service required for entitlement to immediate annuity was in a position that did not meet the requirements of a primary or secondary position and the conditions set forth in this subpart or, if applicable, in part 831 of this chapter, such separation will be considered erroneous.
[52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 70 FR 32710, June 6, 2005]
§ 842.807
Review of decisions.
(a) The final decision of an agency head denying an individual's request for approval of a position as a rigorous, secondary, or air traffic controller position made under § 842.804(c) may be appealed to the Merit Systems Protection Board under procedures prescribed by the Board.
(b) The final decision of an agency head denying an individual coverage while serving in an approved secondary position because of failure to meet the conditions in § 842.803(b) may be appealed to the Merit Systems Protection Board under procedures prescribed by the Board.
[66 FR 38525, July 25, 2001]
§ 842.808
Oversight of coverage determinations.
(a) Upon deciding that a position is a law enforcement officer or firefighter position, each agency head must notify OPM (Attention: Associate Director for Retirement and Insurance) stating the title of each position, the number of incumbents, whether the position is rigorous or secondary, and, if the position is rigorous, the established maximum entry age (or if no maximum entry age has yet been established, the date by which it will be established). The Director of OPM retains the authority to overrule an agency head's determination that a position is a rigorous or secondary position, except such a determination under 5 U.S.C. 8401(17)(B) (concerning certain employees in the Departments of the Interior and the Treasury) or under 5 U.S.C. 8401(17)(D) (concerning certain positions primarily involved in detention activities).
(b) Each agency must establish a file containing all coverage determinations made by an agency head under § 842.803, and all background material used in making the determination.
(c) Upon request by OPM, the agency will make available the entire coverage determination file for OPM to audit to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart.
(d) Upon request by OPM, an agency must submit to OPM a list of all covered positions and any other pertinent information requested. For rigorous positions, the list must show the specific entry age requirement and physical qualification requirements for each position.
[52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32691, July 23, 1992]
§ 842.809
Transitional provisions.
(a) Any service as an air traffic controller, within the meaning of this term under 5 U.S.C. 2109 as in effect on or after January 1, 1987—even if performed before that date—is included in determining an employee's length of
air traffic controller service under 5 U.S.C. 8412(e) for the purposes of retirement eligibility and for mandatory separation under 5 U.S.C. 8425(a) as long as the annuity is based on a separation from service occurring after 1986.
(b) Any service as a law enforcement officer or firefighter, within the meaning of these terms under 5 U.S.C. 8331 (20) and (21), that was performed before the date on which an employee becomes subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, is included in determining the employee's length of law enforcement officer and firefighter service under 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) for the purposes of retirement eligibility and mandatory separation under 5 U.S.C. 8425(b). Service performed as a law enforcement officer or firefighter within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8331, other than service in a supervisory or administrative position, is considered to be service in a rigorous position for the purpose of the 3-year requirement of § 842.803(b)(1)(ii). The FERS definitions of firefighter under 5 U.S.C. 8401(14) and law enforcement officer under 5 U.S.C. 8401(17) are not applicable to service performed—
(1) Before 1987; or
(2) After 1986 and before an employee first becomes subject to chapter 84 (that is, subject to FERS deductions), unless that service was neither subject to CSRS deductions nor creditable in a CSRS component as described in § 846.304(b).
(c)(1) An individual who—
(i) Is covered as a law enforcement officer or firefighter under 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) in a supervisory or administrative position, having already met the transfer requirement of subpart I of part 831 of this chapter; and
(ii) Elects under section 301 of Pub. L. 99-335 to become subject to chapter 84 of such title and begins service in a secondary position with no break in service is considered to have met the transfer and 3-year requirements of §§ 842.803(b)(1)(i) and (ii) for coverage in a secondary position upon the effective date of the election.
(2) An individual who—
(i) Is covered as a law enforcement officer or firefighter under 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) in a supervisory or administrative position, having already met the transfer requirement of subpart I of part 831 of this chapter; and
(ii) Automatically becomes subject to chapter 84 of title 5 of the United States Code (not by election under section 301 of Pub. L. 99-335) serving in a secondary position is considered to have met the 3-year requirement of § 842.803(b)(1)(ii) for coverage in a secondary position. The employee is not covered as a law enforcement officer or firefighter in a secondary position if he or she had a break in coverage as a law enforcement officer or firefighter (within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8331) exceeding 3 days immediately before becoming subject to chapter 84 of title 5 of United States Code. However, a break in coverage in supervisory or administrative positions occurring before the individual becomes subject to such chapter 84 that began with an involuntary separation (not for cause), within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8414(b)(1)(A), is not considered to be a break in service for this purpose.
(d) (1) The CSRS definitions of law enforcement officer under 5 U.S.C. 8331(20) and firefighter under 5 U.S.C. 8331(21) are applicable to service performed before an employee became subject to chapter 84 if the service was—
(i) Subject to CSRS deductions at the time it was performed (including service that becomes creditable under FERS annuity computation rules);
(ii) Performed before 1987 and not subject to retirement deductions; or
(iii) Performed after 1986 and not subject to retirement deductions but is creditable in a CSRS component as described in § 846.304(b).
(2) The determination of whether any service meets the CSRS definitions of law enforcement officer under 5 U.S.C. 8331 (20) or firefighter under 5 U.S.C. 8331(21) must be made in accordance with the provisions of subpart I of part 831 of this chapter.
[52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32691, July 23, 1992]

# Regulations Pertaining to Noncodified Statutes
§ 842.810
Elections to be deemed a law enforcement officer for retirement purposes by certain police officers employed by the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (MWAA).
(a)
Who may elect.
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (MWAA) police officers employed as members of the MWAA police force as of December 21, 2000, who are covered by the provisions of the Federal Employees Retirement System by 49 U.S.C. 49107(b) may elect to be deemed a law enforcement officer for retirement purposes and have past service as a member of the MWAA and Federal Aviation Administration police forces credited as law enforcement officer service.
(b)
Procedure for making an election.
Elections by an MWAA police officer to be treated as a law enforcement officer for retirement purposes must be made in writing to the MWAA and filed in the employee's personnel file in accordance with procedures established by OPM in consultation with the MWAA.
(c)
Time limit for making an election.
An election under paragraph (a) of this section must be made either before the MWAA police officer separates from service with the MWAA or July 25, 2002, whichever occurs first.
(d)
Effect of an election.
An election under paragraph (a) of this section is effective on the beginning of the first pay period following the date of the MWAA police officer's election.
(e)
Irrevocability.
An election under paragraph (a) of this section becomes irrevocable when received by the MWAA.
(f)
Employee payment for past service.
(1) An MWAA police officer making an election under this section must pay an amount equal to the difference between law enforcement officer retirement deductions and retirement deductions actually paid by the police officer for the police officer's past police officer service with the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority and Federal Aviation Administration. The amount paid under this paragraph shall be computed with interest in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8334(e) and paid to the MWAA prior to separation.
(2) Starting with the effective date under paragraph (d) of this section, the MWAA must make deductions and withholdings from the electing MWAA police officer's base pay in accordance with 5 CFR 832.805.
(g)
Employer contributions.
(1) Upon the police officer's payment for past service credit under paragraph (f) of this section, the MWAA must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the additional agency retirement contribution amounts required for the police officer's past service, plus interest.
(2) Starting with the effective date under paragraph (d) of this section, the MWAA must make agency contributions for the electing police officer in accordance with 5 CFR 842.805.
(h)
Mandatory Separation.
(1) An MWAA police officer who elects to be treated as a law enforcement officer for FERS retirement purposes is subject to the mandatory separation provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8425(b) and 5 CFR 831.502.
(2) The President and Chief Operating Officer of the MWAA is deemed to be the head of an agency for the purpose of exempting an MWAA police officer from mandatory separation in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8425(b) and 5 CFR 831.502(b)(1).
(i)
Reemployment.
An MWAA police officer who has been mandatorily separated under 5 U.S.C. 8425(b) is not barred from reemployment in any position except a FERS rigorous or secondary law enforcement officer position after age 60. Service by a reemployed former MWAA police officer who retired under 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) is not covered by the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
[66 FR 38525, July 25, 2001]
§ 842.811
Deposits for second-level supervisory air traffic controller service performed before February 10, 2004.
(a)(1)
Eligibility—current and former employees, and retirees.
A current or former employee, or a retiree who was employed as a civilian employee of the Department of Transportation or the Department of Defense before February
10, 2004, as the immediate supervisor of a person described in 5 U.S.C. 2109(1)(B) may make a deposit for such service, in a form prescribed by OPM, so that such service may be credited as air traffic controller service for FERS purposes subject to paragraph (h) of this section.
(2)
Eligibility—survivors.
A survivor of a current employee, former employee, or a retiree eligible to make a deposit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may make a deposit under this section when the current or former employee, or a retiree—
(i) Dies during the period beginning February 10, 2004, and ending November 28, 2006, without submitting an application under this section; or
(ii) Dies after submitting an application to make a deposit under this section within the time limit set out in paragraph (c) of this section without completing a deposit.
(b)
Filing of deposit application.
An individual eligible to make a deposit under paragraph (a) of this section for service described under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must submit a written application to make a deposit for such service with the appropriate office in the agency where such service was performed.
(c)
Time limit for filing application.
An application to make a deposit under this section must be submitted on or before November 28, 2006.
(d)(1)
Amount of deposit.
A deposit under this section shall be computed using distinct periods of service. For the purpose of this section, a distinct period of service means a period of service not interrupted by a break in service of more than 3 days. A deposit may be made for a distinct period of service; however, such a deposit shall be ineffective if deposits are not completed for all distinct periods of service described under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The amount of deposit under this section shall be an amount equal to the amount by which the deductions from pay which would have been required under 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, subchapter II, if at the time the service was performed the service had been air traffic controller service exceeds the unrefunded deductions or deposits actually made under 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, subchapter II, with respect to such service, plus interest.
(e)(1)
Interest.
Interest shall be computed as described under paragraphs (2) and (3) of 5 U.S.C. 8334(e). Interest shall be computed for each distinct period of service from the midpoint of the distinct period of service.
(2) The computation of interest is on the basis of 30 days to the month. Interest is computed for the actual calendar time involved in each case.
(f)
Forms of deposit.
A deposit under this section may be made as a single lump sum or in installments.
(g)(1)
Processing deposit applications and payments.
Upon receiving an application for deposit under this section, the agency shall determine whether the application meets the requirements of this section; compute the deposit, including interest; and advise the applicant of the total amount of deposit due.
(2) The agency shall establish a deposit account showing the total amount due and a payment schedule (unless deposit is made in one lump sum) to record the date and amount of each payment.
(3) If an eligible individual cannot make payment in one lump sum, the agency shall accept installment payments (by allotments or otherwise). The agency, however, is not required to accept individual checks in amounts less than $50.
(4) Payments received by the agency shall be remitted to OPM immediately for deposit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
(5) Once a deposit has been paid in full or otherwise closed out, the agency shall submit the documentation pertaining to the deposit to OPM in accordance with instructions issued by OPM.
(h)
Effect of deposit.
An individual completing a deposit under this section whose entitlement to an annuity is based on a separation from service on or after February 10, 2004, will receive air traffic controller retirement credit for such service, for annuity entitlement and computation purposes, when OPM receives certification that the deposit has been paid in full, and the deposit payment is remitted to the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
[70 FR 32710, June 6, 2005]

# Subpart I—Nuclear Materials Couriers

# Source:
65 FR 2524, Jan. 18, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.901
Applicability and purpose.
(a) This subpart contains regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to supplement—
(1) 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) and (e), which establish special retirement eligibility for law enforcement officers, members of the Capitol Police and Supreme Court Police, firefighters, nuclear materials couriers, customs and border protection officers, and air traffic controllers employed under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS);
(2) 5 U.S.C. 8422(a), pertaining to deductions;
(3) 5 U.S.C. 8423(a), pertaining to Government contributions; and
(4) 5 U.S.C. 8425, pertaining to mandatory retirement.
(b) The regulations in this subpart are issued pursuant to the authority given to OPM in 5 U.S.C. 8461(g) to prescribe regulations to carry out the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, in 5 U.S.C. 1104 to delegate authority for personnel management to the heads of agencies and pursuant to the authority given the Director of OPM in section 535(d) of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008, Division E of Public Law 110-161, 121 Stat. 1844.
[76 FR 42000, July 18, 2011]
§ 842.902
Definitions.
Agency head
means the Secretary of Energy. For purposes of this subpart,
agency head
is also deemed to include the designated representative of the Secretary of Energy, except that the designated representative must be a department headquarters-level official who reports directly to the Secretary of Energy, or to the Deputy Secretary of Energy, and who is the sole such representative for the entire department.
Employee
means an employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 8401(11).
Nuclear materials courier
means an employee of the Department of Energy, the duties of whose position are primarily to transport, and provide armed escort and protection during transit of, nuclear weapons, nuclear weapon components, strategic quantities of special nuclear materials or other materials related to national security, including an employee engaged in this activity who is transferred directly to a supervisory or administrative position within the same Department of Energy organization, after performing this activity for at least 3 years. (See 5 U.S.C. 8331(27).)
Primary duties
means those duties of a position that—
(1)(i) Are paramount in influence or weight; that is, constitute the basic reasons for the existence of the position;
(ii) Occupy a substantial portion of the individual's working time over a typical work cycle; and
(iii) Are assigned on a regular and recurring basis.
(2) Duties that are of an emergency, incidental, or temporary nature cannot be considered “primary” even if they meet the substantial portion of time criterion. In general, if an employee spends an average of at least 50 percent of his or her time performing a duty or group of duties, they are his or her primary duties.
Primary position
means a position that is in an organization of the Department of Energy and whose primary duties are to transport, and provide armed escort and protection during transit of, nuclear weapons, nuclear weapon components, strategic quantities of special nuclear materials or other materials related to national security.
Secondary position
means a position that—
(1) Is clearly in the nuclear materials transportation field;
(2) Is in an organization of the Department of Energy having a nuclear materials transportation mission; and
(3) Is either—
(i) Supervisory; that is, a position whose primary duties are as a first-
level supervisor of nuclear materials couriers in primary positions; or
(ii) Administrative; that is, an executive, managerial, technical, semiprofessional, or professional position for which experience in a primary nuclear materials courier position is a prerequisite.
§ 842.903
Conditions for coverage in primary positions.
(a) An employee's service in a position that has been determined by the Secretary of the Department of Energy to be a primary nuclear materials courier position is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
(b) An employee who is not in a primary position, nor covered while in a secondary position, and who is detailed or temporarily promoted to a primary position is not covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
§ 842.904
Conditions for coverage in secondary positions.
(a) An employee's service in a position that has been determined by the Secretary of the Department of Energy to be a secondary nuclear materials courier position following 3 years of service in a primary nuclear materials courier position is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) if all of the following criteria are met:
(1) The employee is transferred directly (i.e., without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from a primary position to a secondary position; and
(2) If applicable, the employee has been continuously employed in secondary positions since transferring from a primary position without a break in service exceeding 3 days, except that a break in employment in secondary positions which begins with an involuntary separation (not for cause), within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8414(b)(1)(A), is not considered in determining whether the service in secondary positions is continuous for this purpose.
(b) An employee who is not in a primary position, nor covered while in a secondary position, and who is detailed or temporarily promoted to a secondary position is not covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
§ 842.905
Evidence.
(a) The Secretary of Energy's determination under § 842.903 that a position is a primary position must be based solely on the official position description of the position in question, and any other official description of duties and qualifications. The official documentation for the position must establish that it satisfies the requirements defined in § 842.902.
(b) A determination under § 842.904 must be based on the official position description and any other evidence deemed appropriate by the agency head for making the determination.
(c) If an employee is in a position not subject to the one-half percent higher withholding rate of 5 U.S.C. 8422(a)(3), and the employee does not, within 6 months after entering the position or after any significant change in the position, formally and in writing seek a determination from the employing agency that his or her service is properly covered by the higher withholding rate, the agency head's determination that the service was not so covered at the time of the service is presumed to be correct. This presumption may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence that the employee was unaware of his or her status or was prevented by cause beyond his or her control from requesting that the official status be changed at the time the service was performed.
§ 842.906
Requests from individuals.
(a) An employee who requests credit for service under 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) bears the burden of proof with respect to that service, and must provide the employing agency with all pertinent information regarding duties performed.
(b) An employee who is currently serving in a position that has not been approved as a primary or secondary position, but who believes that his or her service is creditable as service in a primary or secondary position may request the agency head to determine whether or not the employee's current service should be credited and, if it qualifies, whether it should be credited as service in a primary or secondary position. A written request for current service must be made within 6 months
after entering the position or after any significant change in the position.
(c) A current or former employee (or the survivor of a former employee) who believes that a period of past service in an unapproved position qualifies as service in a primary or secondary position and meets the conditions for credit may request the agency head to determine whether or not the employee's past service should be credited and, if it qualifies, whether it should be credited as service in a primary or secondary position. A written request for past service must be made no later than December 31, 2000.
(d) The agency head may extend the time limit for filing under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section when, in the judgment of such agency head, the individual shows that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.
§ 842.907
Withholding and contributions.
(a) During service covered under the conditions established by § 842.903 (a) or (b), the Department of Energy will deduct and withhold from the employee's base pay the amounts required under 5 U.S.C. 8422(a)(3) and submit that amount to OPM in accordance with payroll office instructions issued by OPM.
(b) During service described in paragraph (a) of this section, the employing agency must submit to OPM the Government contributions required under 5 U.S.C. 8423(a) in accordance with payroll office instructions issued by OPM.
(c) If the correct withholding and/or Government contributions are not timely submitted to OPM for any reason whatsoever, including cases in which it is finally determined that past service of a current or former employee was subject to the higher deduction and Government contribution rates, the employing agency must correct the error by submitting the correct amounts (including both employee and agency shares) to OPM as soon as possible. Even if the agency waives collection of the overpayment of pay under any waiver authority that may be available for this purpose, such as 5 U.S.C. 5584, or otherwise fails to collect the debt, the correct amount must still be submitted to OPM as soon as possible.
(d) Upon proper application from an employee, former employee or eligible survivor of a former employee, an employing agency or former employing agency will pay a refund of erroneous additional withholdings for service that is found not to have been covered service. If an individual has paid to OPM a deposit or redeposit, including the additional amount required for covered service, and the deposit is later determined to be erroneous because the service was not covered service, OPM will pay the refund, upon proper application, to the individual, without interest.
(e) The additional employee withholding and agency contributions for covered service properly made are not separately refundable, even in the event that the employee or his or her survivor does not qualify for a special annuity computation under 5 U.S.C. 8415(d).
(f) While an employee who does not hold a primary or secondary position is detailed or temporarily promoted to such a position, the additional withholdings and agency contributions will not be made.
(g) While an employee who holds a primary or secondary position is detailed or temporarily promoted to a position that is not a primary or secondary position, the additional withholdings and agency contributions will continue to be made.
§ 842.908
Mandatory separation.
(a) Effective on and after October 17, 1999, the mandatory separation provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8425 apply to all nuclear materials couriers including those in secondary positions. A mandatory separation under 5 U.S.C. 8425 is not an adverse action under part 752 of this chapter or a removal action under part 359 of this chapter.
(b) Exemptions from mandatory separation are subject to the conditions set forth under 5 U.S.C. 8425. An exemption may be granted at the sole discretion of the head of the employing agency or by the President in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8425(c).
(c) In the event that an employee is separated mandatorily under 5 U.S.C. 8425, or is separated for optional retirement under 5 U.S.C. 8412 (d) or (e), and OPM finds that all or part of the minimum service required for entitlement to immediate annuity was in a position that did not meet the requirements of a primary or secondary position and the conditions set forth in this subpart or, if applicable, in part 831 of this chapter, such separation will be considered erroneous.
§ 842.909
Review of decisions.
The following decisions may be appealed to the Merit Systems Protection Board under procedures prescribed by the Board:
(a) The final decision of the Department of Energy issued to an employee, former employee, or survivor as the result of a request for determination filed under § 842.906; and
(b) The final decision of the Department of Energy that a break in service referred to in § 842.904(a)(2) did not begin with an involuntary separation within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8414(b)(1)(A).
§ 842.910
Oversight of coverage determinations.
(a) Upon deciding that a position is a nuclear materials courier position, the agency head must notify OPM (Attention: Associate Director for Retirement and Insurance) stating the title of each position, the number of incumbents, and whether the position is primary or secondary. The Director of OPM retains the authority to revoke the agency head's determination that a position is a primary or secondary position, or that an individual's service in any other position is creditable under 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
(b) The Department of Energy must establish a file containing each coverage determination made by the agency head under § 842.903 and § 842.904, and all background material used in making the determination.
(c) Upon request by OPM, the Department of Energy will make available the entire coverage determination file for OPM to audit to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart.
(d) Upon request by OPM, the Department of Energy must submit to OPM a list of all covered positions and any other pertinent information requested.

# Subpart J—Customs and Border Protection Officers

# Source:
76 FR 42001, July 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.1001
Applicability and purpose.
(a) This subpart contains regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to supplement—
(1) 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) and (e), which establish special retirement eligibility for law enforcement officers, members of the Capitol Police and Supreme Court Police, firefighters, nuclear materials couriers, customs and border protection officers, and air traffic controllers employed under the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS);
(2) 5 U.S.C. 8422(a), pertaining to deductions;
(3) 5 U.S.C. 8423(a), pertaining to Government contributions; and
(4) 5 U.S.C. 8425, pertaining to mandatory retirement.
(b) The regulations in this subpart are issued pursuant to the authority given to OPM in 5 U.S.C. 8461(g) to prescribe regulations to carry out the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, in 5 U.S.C. 1104 to delegate authority for personnel management to the heads of agencies and pursuant to the authority given the Director of OPM in section 535(d) of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008, Division E of Public Law 110-161, 121 Stat. 1844.
§ 842.1002
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Agency head
means the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. For purposes of an approval of coverage under this subpart, agency head is also deemed to include the designated representative of the Secretary of Department of Homeland Security, except that the designated representative must be a department headquarters-level official who reports directly to the Secretary of Homeland Security, or to the Deputy Secretary of Homeland
Security, and who is the sole such representative for the entire department. For the purposes of a denial of coverage under this subpart, agency head is also deemed to include the designated representative of the Secretary of Department of Homeland Security at any level within the Department of Homeland Security.
Customs and border protection officer
means an employee in the Department of Homeland Security occupying a position within the Customs and Border Protection Officer (GS-1895) job series (determined applying the criteria in effect as of September 1, 2007) or any successor position and whose duties include activities relating to the arrival and departure of persons, conveyances, and merchandise at ports of entry. Also included in this definition is an employee engaged in this activity who is transferred directly to a supervisory or administrative position in the Department of Homeland Security after performing such duties in 1 or more positions within the GS-1895 job series (determined applying the criteria in effect as of September 1, 2007), or any successor position, for at least 3 years.
Employee
means an employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 8401(11).
First-level supervisors
are employees classified as supervisors who have direct and regular contact with the employees they supervise. First-level supervisors do not have subordinate supervisors. A first-level supervisor may occupy a primary position or a secondary position if the appropriate definition is met.
Primary position
means a position classified within the Customs and Border Protection Officer (GS-1895) job series (determined applying the criteria in effect as of September 1, 2007) or any successor position whose duties include the performance of work directly connected with activities relating to the arrival and departure of persons, conveyances, and merchandise at ports of entry.
Secondary position
means a position within the Department of Homeland Security that is either—
(1) Supervisory; i.e., a position whose primary duties are as a first-level supervisor of customs and border protection officers in primary positions; or
(2) Administrative; i.e., an executive, managerial, technical, semiprofessional, or professional position for which experience in a primary customs and border protection officer position is a prerequisite.
§ 842.1003
Conditions for coverage.
(a)
Primary positions.
(1) An employee's service in a position that has been determined by the employing agency head to be a primary customs and border protection officer position is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
(2) An employee who is not in a primary position, nor covered while in a secondary position, and who is detailed or temporarily promoted to a primary position is not covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) for any purpose under this subpart.
(3) A first-level supervisor position may be determined to be a primary position if it satisfies the conditions set forth in § 842.1002.
(b)
Secondary positions.
An employee's service in a position that has been determined by the employing agency head to be a secondary position is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) if all of the following criteria are met:
(1) The employee, while covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) as a customs and border protection officer, is transferred directly (i.e., without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from a primary position to a secondary position; and
(2) The employee has completed 3 years of service in a primary position, including service for which no FERS deductions were withheld; and
(3) If applicable, the employee has been continuously employed in secondary positions since transferring from a primary position without a break in service exceeding 3 days, except that a break in employment in secondary positions which begins with an involuntary separation (not for cause), within the meaning of 8414(b)(1)(A), is not considered in determining whether the service in secondary positions is continuous for this purpose.
(c) For the purpose of applying the criteria at paragraph (b)(1) through (3)
of this section to evaluate transfers, service, and employment periods that occurred before September 1, 2007—
(1) A primary position, covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), is deemed to include:
(i) A position whose duties included the performance of work directly connected with activities relating to the arrival and departure of persons, conveyances, and merchandise at ports of entry that was classified within the Immigration Inspector Series (GS-1816), Customs Inspector Series (GS-1890), Canine Enforcement Officer Series (GS-1801), or any other series which the agency head determines were predecessor series to the Customs and Border Protection Series (GS-1895), and that would have been classified under the GS-1895 series had it then existed; and
(ii) A position within the Customs and Border Protection Series (GS-1895) whose duties included the performance of work directly connected with activities relating to the arrival and departure of persons, conveyances, and merchandise at ports of entry.
(2) A secondary position is deemed to include:
(i) A first-level supervisor of an employee in a position described at paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) A executive, managerial, technical, semiprofessional, or professional position for which experience in a position described at paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section is a mandatory prerequisite.
(d) An employee who is not in a primary position, nor covered while in a secondary position, and who is detailed or temporarily promoted to a secondary position is not covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) for any purpose under this subpart.
§ 842.1004
Evidence.
(a) The agency head's determination under § 842.1003(a) that a position is a primary position must be based solely on the official position description of the position in question, and any other official description of duties and qualifications. The official documentation for the position must establish that it satisfies the requirements defined in § 842.1002.
(b) A determination under § 842.1003(b) must be based on the official position description and any other evidence deemed appropriate by the agency head for making the determination.
(c) If an employee is in a position not subject to the one-half percent higher withholding rate of 5 U.S.C. 8422(a)(3), and the employee does not, within 6 months of entering the position formally and in writing seek a determination from the employing agency that his or her service is properly covered by the higher withholding rate, the agency head's determination that the service was not so covered at the time of the service is presumed to be correct. This presumption may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence that the employee was unaware of his or her status or was prevented by cause beyond his or her control from requesting that the official status be changed at the time the service was performed.
§ 842.1005
Withholding and contributions.
(a) During service covered under the conditions established by § 842.1003(a) or (c), the Department of Homeland Security will deduct and withhold from the employee's base pay the amounts required under 5 U.S.C. 8422(a) and submit that amount to OPM in accordance with payroll office instructions issued by OPM.
(b) During service described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department of Homeland Security must submit to OPM the Government contributions required under 5 U.S.C. 8423(a) in accordance with payroll office instructions issued by OPM.
(c) If the correct withholdings and/or Government contributions are not timely submitted to OPM for any reason whatsoever, including cases in which it is finally determined that past service of a current or former employee was subject to the higher deduction and Government contribution rates, the Department of Homeland Security must correct the error by submitting the correct amounts (including both employee and agency shares) to OPM
as soon as possible. Even if the Department of Homeland Security waives collection of the overpayment of pay under any waiver authority that may be available for this purpose, such as 5 U.S.C. 5584, or otherwise fails to collect the debt, the correct amount must still be submitted to OPM as soon as possible.
(d) Upon proper application from an employee, former employee or eligible survivor of a former employee, the Department of Homeland Security will pay a refund of erroneous additional withholdings for service that is found not to have been covered service. If an individual has paid to OPM a deposit or redeposit, including the additional amount required for covered service, and the deposit is later determined to be erroneous because the service was not covered service, OPM will pay the refund, upon proper application, to the individual, without interest.
(e) The additional employee withholding and agency contributions for covered service properly made are not separately refundable, even in the event that the employee or his or her survivor does not qualify for a special annuity computation under 5 U.S.C. 8415(d).
(f) While an employee who does not hold a primary or secondary position is detailed or temporarily promoted to such a position, the additional withholdings and agency contributions will not be made.
(g) While an employee who holds a primary or secondary position is detailed or temporarily promoted to a position that is not a primary or secondary position, the additional withholdings and agency contributions will continue to be made.
§ 842.1006
Mandatory separation.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the mandatory separation provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8425 apply to customs and border protection officers, including those in secondary positions. A mandatory separation under 5 U.S.C. 8425 is not an adverse action under part 752 of this chapter or a removal action under part 359 of this chapter.
(b) Exemptions from mandatory separation are subject to the conditions set forth under 5 U.S.C. 8425. An exemption may be granted at the sole discretion of the head of the employing agency or by the President in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8425(c).
(c) In the event that an employee is separated mandatorily under 5 U.S.C. 8425, or is separated for optional retirement under 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) or (e), and OPM finds that all or part of the minimum service required for entitlement to immediate annuity was in a position that did not meet the requirements of a primary or secondary position and the conditions set forth in this subpart or, if applicable, in part 831 of this chapter, such separation will be considered erroneous.
(d) The customs and border protection officer mandatory separation provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8425 do not apply to an individual first appointed as a customs and border protection officer before July 6, 2008.
§ 842.1007
Review of decisions.
(a) The final decision of the agency head denying an individual's request for approval of a position as a primary or secondary customs and border protection officer position made under § 842.1003(a) may be appealed to the Merit Systems Protection Board under procedures prescribed by the Board.
(b) The final decision of the agency head denying an individual coverage while serving in an approved secondary position because of failure to meet the conditions in § 842.1003(b) may be appealed to the Merit Systems Protection Board under procedures prescribed by the Board.
§ 842.1008
Oversight of coverage determinations.
(a) Upon deciding that a position is a customs and border protection officer, the Department of Homeland Security must notify OPM (Attention: Associate Director, Retirement Services, or such other official as may be designated) stating the title of each position, the occupational series of the position, the number of incumbents, whether the position is primary or secondary, and, if the position is a primary position, the established maximum entry age, if one has been established. The Director of OPM retains the authority to revoke
the agency head's determination that a position is a primary or secondary position.
(b) The Department of Homeland Security must establish and maintain a file containing all coverage determinations made by the agency head under § 842.1003(a) and (b), and all background material used in making the determination.
(c) Upon request by OPM, the Department of Homeland Security will make available the entire coverage determination file for OPM to audit to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart.
(d) Upon request by OPM, the Department of Homeland Security must submit to OPM a list of all covered positions and any other pertinent information requested.
§ 842.1009
Elections of retirement coverage, exclusions from retirement coverage, and proportional annuity computations.
(a)
Election of coverage.
(1) The Department of Homeland Security must provide an individual who is a customs and border protection officer on December 26, 2007, with the opportunity to elect not to be treated as a customs and border protection officer under section 535(a) and (b) of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008, Public Law 110-161, 121 Stat. 2042.
(2) An election under this paragraph is valid only if made on or before June 22, 2008.
(3) An individual eligible to make an election under this paragraph who fails to make such an election on or before June 22, 2008, is deemed to have elected to be treated as a customs and border protection officer for retirement purposes.
(b)
Exclusion from coverage.
The provisions of this subpart and any other specific reference to customs and border protection officers in this part do not apply to employees who on December 25, 2007, were law enforcement officers, under subpart H of this part or subpart I of part 831, within U.S. Customs and Border Protection. These employees cannot elect to be treated as a customs and border protection officer under paragraph (a) of this section, nor can they be deemed to have made such an election.
(c)
Proportional annuity computation.
The annuity of an employee serving in a primary or secondary customs and border protection officer position on July 6, 2008, must, to the extent that its computation is based on service rendered as a customs and border protection officer on or after that date, be at least equal to the amount that would be payable—
(1) To the extent that such service is subject to the Civil Service Retirement System, by applying section 8339(d) of title 5, United States Code, with respect to such service; and
(2) To the extent such service is subject to the Federal Employees' Retirement System, by applying section 8415(d) of title 5, United States Code, with respect to such service.

# Subpart K—Peace Corps

# Source:
86 FR 20438, Apr. 20, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.1101
Purpose.
This subpart contains regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to supplement chapter 34 of title 22, United States Code, concerning FERS retirement service credit eligibility for satisfactory Peace Corps volunteer and volunteer leader service.
§ 842.1102
Allowable service.
(a) Service credit deposits are not allowed for training periods prior to actual enrollment.
(b) Service credit deposits can only be made for satisfactory volunteer and volunteer leader service.
(c) Annuitants enrolling as a volunteer or volunteer leader are not to be deemed reemployed annuitants. Service as a volunteer or volunteer leader performed after retiring under a CSRS or FERS retirement is not creditable serviced for retirement purposes.
§ 842.1103
Deposits for service.
(a) An employee or Member subject to FERS may make a deposit for volunteer and volunteer leader service by filing an application in a form prescribed by OPM.
(b) The deposit is based upon the amount of the stipend that was received. If an educational award was elected in lieu of the stipend, then the deposit is based on the amount of the stipend that would have been received.
(c) An application to make a deposit is filed with the appropriate office in the employing agency, or, for Members and Congressional employees, with the Secretary of the Senate, or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, as appropriate.
(d) Upon receipt and review of the application, the agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate will submit the application to OPM for processing.
(e) Interest begins to accrue on deposits for volunteer service on October 1, 1995, or 2 years after the date on which the individual first becomes an employee or Member, whichever is later.
(f) After becoming federally employed, there is a 2-year interest-free grace period on Peace Corps volunteer and volunteer leader service deposits. After the 2-year period, interest is accrued and compounded annually at the variable rate beginning on the date of the expiration of the 2-year period.
§ 842.1104
Additional interest due to administrative error.
(a) The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate, as appropriate, may pay any additional interest due on the deposit for volunteer or volunteer leader service as a result of its administrative error. OPM may pay any additional interest due on the deposit for Peace Corps service as a result of its administrative error.
(b) The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate, as appropriate, shall set their own procedures for employees or Members to claim there was administrative error. OPM shall set its own procedures for claims of administrative error on its part.
(c) The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate, as appropriate, shall determine if administrative error on its part caused an increase in interest due on the deposit amount. OPM shall determine if administrative error on its part caused an increase in interest due on the deposit amount.
(d) OPM's final determination regarding a claim of administrative error on its part is not subject to the due process procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 8461(e).

# Subpart L—Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA)

# Source:
86 FR 20439, Apr. 20, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 842.1201
Purpose.
This subpart contains regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to supplement chapter 66, title 42, United States Code, concerning CSRS retirement service credit eligibility for Volunteers in Serviced to America (VISTA) volunteers.
§ 842.1202
Allowable service.
(a) Service credit deposits are not allowed for training periods prior to actual enrollment.
(b) Service credit deposits can only be made for satisfactory volunteer service.
(c) Annuitants enrolling as VISTA volunteers are not deemed reemployed annuitants. Service as a volunteer or volunteer leader performed after retiring under a CSRS or FERS retirement is not creditable serviced for retirement purposes.
(d) Retirement credit is not allowable for training period(s) prior to actual enrollment.
§ 842.1203
Deposits for service.
(a) An employee or Member subject to CSRS may make a deposit for volunteer service by filing an application in a form prescribed by OPM.
(b) The deposit is based upon the amount of the stipend that was received. If an educational award was elected in lieu of the stipend, then the deposit is based on the amount of the stipend that would have been received.
(c) An application to make a deposit is filed with the appropriate office in the employing agency, or, for Members and Congressional employees, with the Secretary of the Senate, or the Clerk of
the House of Representatives, as appropriate.
(d) Upon receipt and review of the application, the agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate will submit the application to OPM for processing.
(e) Interest begins to accrue on deposits for volunteer service on October 1, 1995, or 2 years after the date on which the individual first becomes an employee or Member, whichever is later.
(f) After becoming federally employed, there is a 2-year interest-free grace period on VISTA volunteer service deposits. After the 2-year period, interest is accrued and compounded annually at the variable rate beginning on the date of the expiration of the 2-year period.
(g) A deposit is required in order to obtain service credit for VISTA volunteer service for which the volunteer chose to receive an educational award in lieu of a stipend. The deposit is based upon the amount of the stipend that would have been received if he/she had elected to receive the stipend rather than an educational award.
§ 842.1204
Additional interest due to administrative error.
(a) The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate, as appropriate, may pay any additional interest due on the deposit for volunteer or volunteer leader service as a result of its administrative error. OPM may pay any additional interest due on the deposit for VISTA service as a result of its administrative error.
(b) The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate, as appropriate, shall set their own procedures for employees or Members to claim there was administrative error. OPM shall set its own procedures for claims of administrative error on its part.
(c) The agency, Clerk of the House of Representatives, or Secretary of the Senate, as appropriate, shall determine if administrative error on its part caused an increase in interest due on the deposit amount. OPM shall determine if administrative error on its part caused an increase in interest due on the deposit amount.
(d) OPM's final determination regarding a claim of administrative error on its part is not subject to the due process procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 8461(e).
Pt. 843

# PART 843—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM—DEATH BENEFITS AND EMPLOYEE REFUNDS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
843.101
Purpose.
843.102
Definitions.
843.103
Application required.

# Subpart B—One-time Payments
843.201
Purpose.
843.202
Eligibility for payment of the unexpended balance to a separated employee.
843.203
Eligibility for a one-time payment upon death of an employee, separated employee, or retiree if no one is eligible for an annuity.
843.204
Eligibility for a one-time payment upon death of an employee, separated employee, or retiree if someone is eligible for an annuity.
843.205
Designation of beneficiary—form and execution.
843.206
Designation of beneficiary—proof of receipt.
843.207
Agent of next of kin.
843.208
Notification of current and/or former spouse before payment of unexpended balance to a separated employee.
843.209
Waiver of notification requirement.
843.210
Transfers between retirement systems.
843.211
Determining when children prevent payment of the unexpended balance.
843.212
Lump-sum payments which include contributions made to a retirement system for employees of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.

# Subpart C—Current and Former Spouse Benefits
843.301
Purpose.
843.302
Time for filing applications for death benefits.
843.303
Marriage duration requirements.
843.304
Commencing and terminating dates of survivor annuities.
843.305
Reinstatement.
843.306
Basic benefits on death of a non-disability retiree.
843.307
Basic benefits on death of a disability retiree.
843.308
Supplementary benefits on death of a retiree.
843.309
Basic employee death benefit.
843.310
Annuity based on death of an employee.
843.311
Annuity based on death of a separated employee.
843.312
Payment to former spouses.
843.313
Elections between survivor annuities.
843.314
Amount of survivor annuity where service includes credit for service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 843—Present Value Conversion Factors for Earlier Commencing Date of Annuities of Current and Former Spouses of Deceased Separated Employees

# Subpart D—Child Annuities
843.401
Purpose.
843.402
Eligibility requirements.
843.403
Proof of parentage.
843.404
Proof of adoption.
843.405
Dependency.
843.406
Proof of dependency.
843.407
Disabilities.
843.408
Commencing and terminating dates of child annuities.
843.409
Rates of annuities.
843.410
Annuity for a child age 18 to 22 during full-time school attendance.
843.411
Direct payments to children.

# Subpart E—Insurable Interest Annuities
843.501
Purpose.
843.502
Eligibility.
843.503
Commencing and terminating dates.
843.504
Rate of annuity.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8461; 843.205, 843.208, and 843.209 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8424; 843.309 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8442; 843.406 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8441.

# Source:
52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 843.101
Purpose.
(a) This part regulates death benefits and employee refunds under FERS.
(b) This subpart contains definitions and regulations that have general application throughout this part.
§ 843.102
Definitions.
In this part—
Accrued benefit
means the accrued, unpaid annuity payable after the death of a retiree.
Adult child
means a child who has attained age 18.
Basic annuity
means the recurring payments (after the death of an employee, separated employee, or retiree) made to a current or former spouse of a deceased retiree, employee, or separated employee under subsection (a), (b)(1)(B), or (c)(2) of section 8442 of title 5, United States Code.
Basic child's annuity rate
means the total amount that all surviving children of an employee or retiree would receive under CSRS.
Basic employee death benefit
means the payment to the current spouse of a deceased employee equal to $15,000 (indexed under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code), plus one-half of the employee's final salary (or average salary, if higher).
Child
means a child as defined in section 8441(4) of title 5, United States Code.
Compensationer
means a person receiving recurring benefits under chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code.
CSRS
means subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
Current spouse
means a living person who is married to the employee, separated employee, or retiree at the time of the employee's, separated employee's or retiree's death.
Current spouse
includes a spouse who is legally separated but not divorced from the employee, separated employee, or retiree.
Current spouse annuity
means the basic annuity (and supplementary annuity, if any) payable to a current spouse.
Duly appointed representative of the deceased employee's, separated employee's, retiree's, survivor's or Member's estate
means an individual named in an order of a court having jurisdiction over the estate of the deceased which grants the individual the authority to receive, or the right to possess, the property of the deceased; and also means, where the law of the domicile of the deceased has provided for the administration of estates through alternative procedures which dispense with the need for a court order, an individual who demonstrates that he or she is entitled to receive, or possess, the property of the deceased under the terms of those alternative procedures.
Employee
means an employee as defined in section 8401(11) of title 5,
United States Code, and a Member as defined in section 8401(20) of title 5, United States Code. “Employee” includes a person who has applied for retirement under FERS but had not been separated from the service prior to his or her death, even if the person's retirement would have been retroactively effective upon separation.
FERS
means chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Final annual rate of basic pay
means the basic pay that an employee or Member would receive in a year at the current rate of pay. A pay rate other than an annual salary is converted to an annual rate by multiplying the prescribed rate by the number of pay units in a 52-week work year.
(a) The annual pay of a part-time (regularly scheduled) employee is the product of the employee's final hourly rate of pay and the higher of—
(1) The number of hours that the employee was entitled to basic pay whether in a duty or paid leave status (not to exceed 2000 for Postal employees or 2080 for non-postal employees) in the 52-week work year immediately preceding the end of the last pay period in which the employee was in a pay status; or
(2) The number of hours in the employee's regularly scheduled tour of duty in a 52-week work year.
(b) The annual pay of an intermittent (not regularly scheduled) employee is the product of the employee's final hourly rate of pay and the number of hours that the employee was entitled to basic pay whether in a duty or paid leave status (not to exceed 2000 for Postal employees or 2080 for non-Postal employees) in the 52-week work year immediately preceding the end of the last pay period in which the employee was in a pay status.
(c) If the part-time or intermittent employee's current appointment began less than 52 weeks prior to the end of the last pay period in which the employee was in a pay status, the number of hours that the employee was entitled to basic pay is computed by multiplying the number of hours that the employee was paid basic pay by a fraction whose numerator is 52 and whose denominator is the number of weeks between the date of appointment and the end of the last pay period in which the employee was in a pay status.
(d) The annual pay for customs officers is the sum of the employee's general schedule pay, locality pay, and the lesser of—
(1) Two times the employee's final hourly rate of pay times the number of hours for which the employee was paid two times salary as compensation for overtime inspectional service under section 5(a) of the Act of February 11, 1911 (19 U.S.C. 261 and 267) plus three times the employee's final hourly rate of pay times the number of hours for which the employee was paid three times salary as compensation for overtime inspectional service under section 5(a) in the 52-week work year immediately preceding the end of the last pay period in which the employee was in pay status; or
(2) $12,500.
Former spouse
means a living person who was married for at least 9 months to an employee, separated employee, or retiree who performed at least 18 months of service creditable under FERS and whose marriage to the employee, separated employee, or retiree was terminated before the death of the employee, separated employee, or retiree.
Former spouse annuity
means the basic annuity (and supplementary annuity, if any) payable to a former spouse.
Insurable interest beneficiary
means a person designated to receive a survivor annuity under § 842.605 of this chapter.
Insurable interest reduction
means the reduction in a retiree's annuity because the retiree elected to provide a survivor annuity to an insurable interest beneficiary.
Marriage
means a marriage recognized in law or equity under the whole law of the jurisdiction with the most significant interest in the marital status of the employee, Member, or retiree. If a jurisdiction would recognize more than one marriage in law or equity, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) will recognize only one marriage but will defer to the local courts to determine which marriage should be recognized.
Minimum retirement age
means the minimum retirement age as defined in § 842.202 of this chapter.
1
1
The definition of minimum retirement age which will be codified at 5 CFR 842.202 reads:
Minimum retirement age
means an age based on an individual's year of birth, as follows:
Minimum retirement age
Year of birth:
Before 1948
55 years.
1948
55 years and 2 months.
1949
55 years and 4 months.
1950
55 years and 6 months.
1951
55 years and 8 months.
1952
55 years and 10 months.
1953-1964
56 years.
1965
56 years and 2 months.
1966
56 years and 4 months.
1967
56 years and 6 months.
1968
56 years and 8 months.
1969
56 years and 10 months.
1970 and after
57 years.
Qualifying court order
means a court order that awards a former spouse annuity and that satisfies the requirements of section 8445 of title 5, United States Code, for awarding a former spouse annuity.
Retiree
means a former employee or Member who is receiving recurring payments under FERS based on service by the employee or Member.
Retiree,
as used in this subpart, does not include a current spouse, former spouse, child, or person with an insurable interest receiving a survivor annuity.
Retiree
for purposes of determining a person's status at the time of death means that the person had been separated from the service and had met all the requirements to receive an annuity including having filed an application for the annuity prior to his or her death.
Separated employee
means a former employee who has been separated from the service but who has not met all the requirements for retirement under FERS or who has not filed an application for retirement under FERS.
Step-child
means a child who is the issue of a current or former spouse of the employee or retiree but is not the issue of the employee or retiree. A child is not a step-child unless the relationship between the employee or retiree and the child's parent is a marriage.
Supplementary annuity
means the recurring payment under section 8442(f) of title 5, United States Code.
Unexpended balance
means the unrefunded amount consisting of—
(a) Retirement deductions made from the basic pay of an employee under subpart E of part 841 of this chapter;
(b) Amount deposited by an employee for periods of service (including military service) for which—
(1) No retirement deductions were made; or
(2) Deductions were refunded to the employee; and
(c) Interest compounded annually on the deductions and deposits at a rate which, for any calendar year, will be equal to the overall average yield to the Civil Service Retirement Fund during the preceding fiscal year from all obligations purchased by the Secretary of the Treasury during that fiscal year under section 8348 (c), (d), and (e) of title 5, United States Code, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. Interest on deductions and deposits does not include interest—
(1) If the service covered by the contributions totals 1 year or less; or
(2) For a fractional part of a month in the total service.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2352, Jan. 21, 1987, and 52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987; 53 FR 16536, May 10, 1988; 57 FR 29784, July 7, 1992; 57 FR 33599, July 29, 1992; 60 FR 13035, Mar. 10, 1995]
§ 843.103
Application required.
(a) No person is entitled to benefits under this part unless an application on behalf of that person is filed with OPM no later than 30 years after the death of the employee, separated employee, or retiree on whose service the benefit is based.
(b) Applications for benefits under this part must be filed on the form provided by OPM for that purpose.

# Subpart B—One-time Payments
§ 843.201
Purpose.
This subpart explains the requirements under FERS—
(a) For payment of employee contributions to the Civil Service Retirement Fund—
(1) As a refund of contribution, to separated employees; or
(2) As a death benefit, to survivors of employees, separated employees, and retirees; and
(b) For payment of any accrued, but unpaid, annuity to survivors of retirees.
§ 843.202
Eligibility for payment of the unexpended balance to a separated employee.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 843.208 and 843.209 or in section 3716 of title 31, United States Code, on administrative offset for Government claims, a separated employee who has been separated from a covered position for at least 31 days and who is ineligible for an annuity commencing within 31 days after the date of filing an application for refund is eligible for a payment of the unexpended balance.
(b)(1) For a retirement based on a separation before October 28, 2009, periods of service for which employee contributions have been refunded are not creditable service in determining whether the employee has sufficient service to have title to an annuity or for any other purpose.
(2) For a retirement based on a separation on or after October 28, 2009, periods of service for which employee contributions have been refunded are—
(i) Creditable service in determining whether the employee has sufficient service to have title to an annuity; and
(ii) Not creditable without deposit for any other purpose, except for average pay computation purposes.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 79 FR 46632, Aug. 8, 2014]
§ 843.203
Eligibility for a one-time payment upon death of an employee, separated employee, or retiree if no one is eligible for an annuity.
(a) If there is no survivor who is entitled to monthly survivor annuity benefits on the death of an employee, separated employee, retiree, or survivor annuitant, the unexpended balance is payable, except as provided in section 3716 of title 31, United States Code, on administrative offset for Government claims, to the person(s) entitled in the normal order of precedence described in section 8424 of title 5, United States Code.
(b) If a deceased employee, separated employee, retiree or Member provided in a valid designation of beneficiary that the lump sum proceeds shall be payable to the deceased's estate, or to the Executor, Administrator, or other representative of the deceased's estate, or if the proceeds would otherwise be properly payable to the duly appointed representative of the deceased's estate under the order of precedence specified in 5 U.S.C. 8424(d), payment of the proceeds to the duly appointed representative of the deceased's estate will bar recovery by any other person.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 29784, July 7, 1992]
§ 843.204
Eligibility for a one-time payment upon death of an employee, separated employee, or retiree if someone is eligible for an annuity.
(a) Except as provided in section 3716 of title 31, United States Code, on administrative offset for Government claims, even if an annuity is payable, the person entitled in the order of precedence described in section 8424 of title 5, United States Code, may be paid—
(1) Partial deposits for civilian service performed on and after October 1, 1982; and
(2) Partial deposits for post-1956 military service; and
(3) The accrued benefit.
(b) Except as provided in subpart G of part 842 of this chapter or § 843.311, when someone is eligible for an annuity, the person entitled in the order of precedence may not be paid—
(1) Partial or completed deposits for nondeduction civilian service performed before October 1, 1982, unless the service covered by the deposit is not creditable under FERS; or
(2) Completed deposits for nondeduction civilian service performed on and after October 1, 1982, unless the service covered by the deposit is not creditable under or FERS; or
(3) Completed deposits for post-1956 military service, unless the service covered by the deposit is not creditable under FERS.
(c) Payments of the partial or completed deposits mentioned in paragraph (b) of this section are subject to section
3716 of title 31, United States Code (administrative offset for Governmental claims).
§ 843.205
Designation of beneficiary—form and execution.
(a) A designation of beneficiary must be in writing, signed and witnessed, and received in the employing office (or in OPM, in the case of a retiree, or a compensationer, or a separated employee) before the death of the designator.
(b) A change or cancellation of beneficiary in a last will or testament, or in any other document not witnessed and filed as required by this section, will not have any force or effect.
(c) A witness to a designation of beneficiary is ineligible to receive payment as a beneficiary.
(d) Any person, firm, corporation, or legal entity may be named as beneficiary.
(e) A change of beneficiary may be made at any time and without the knowledge or consent of the previous beneficiary. This right cannot be waived or restricted.
(f) A designation of beneficiary is automatically cancelled whenever a separated employee is paid the unexpended balance.
(g)(1) If the shares designated equal less than 100 percent, the undesignated portion will be paid according to the order of precedence provided in section 8424 of title 5, United States Code.
(2) If the shares designated exceed 100 percent, each designee's share will be in proportion to the share originally designated. Each share is computed by multiplying the percentage designated for that designee by a fraction whose numerator is 100 and whose denominator is the total number of percent designated.
§ 843.206
Designation of beneficiary—proof of receipt.
(a) Upon receipt of a designation of beneficiary, the agency (or OPM) will mark the designation to show the date of receipt.
(b) The date of receipt of designation of beneficiary is presumed to be the date marked by the agency (or OPM).
§ 843.207
Agent of next of kin.
When a deceased employee or retiree has not named a beneficiary and one of the next of kin entitled makes a claim for the accrued benefit, other next of kin entitled to share in the unexpended balance or accrued benefit may designate the one who made the claim to act as their agent to receive their distributive shares.
§ 843.208
Notification of current and/or former spouse before payment of unexpended balance to a separated employee.
(a) Payment to an employee of the unexpended balance may be made only if current and former spouses are notified of the former employee's application.
(b) Proof of notification will consist of a signed and witnessed statement by the current and/or former spouse on a form provided by OPM acknowledging that he or she has been informed of the former employee's application for the unexpended balance and the consequences of the refund on the current or former spouse's possible annuity entitlement. This statement must be presented to the employing agency or OPM when filing the application for the unexpended balance.
(c) If the current and/or former spouse refuses to acknowledge the notification or the employee is otherwise unable to obtain the acknowledgment, the employee must submit—
(1) Affidavits signed by two individuals who witnessed the employee's attempt to personally notify the current or former spouse. The witnesses must attest that they were in the presence of the employee and the current or former spouse and that the employee's purpose should have been clear to the current or former spouse; or
(2) The current mailing address of the current or former spouse. OPM will attempt to notify (by certified mail—return receipt requested) the current or former spouse at the address provided by the employee. The unexpended balance will not be paid until OPM receives the signed return receipt.
§ 843.209
Waiver of notification requirement.
The current and/or former spouse notification requirement will be waived upon a showing that the current and/or former spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined. A request for waiver on this basis must be accompanied by—
(a) A judicial or administrative determination that the current and/or former spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined; or
(b) Affidavits by the former employee and two other persons, at least one of whom is not related to the former employee, attesting to the inability to locate the current and/or former spouse and stating the efforts made to locate the current and/or former spouse.
§ 843.210
Transfers between retirement systems.
Transfers of employees' contributions between the Civil Service Retirement Fund and other retirement systems for Federal or District of Columbia employees when made in accordance with Federal statute for the purpose of transferring retirement service credit to the other retirement system are not subject to the notice requirements of this subpart.
§ 843.211
Determining when children prevent payment of the unexpended balance.
Someone entitled to an annuity for purposes of §§ 843.203 and 843.204 includes a child, even if the amount of the child's annuity is zero because the amount of the social security child survivor benefits exceeds the child survivor benefits payable under CSRS, unless—
(a) The child's annuity entitlement has terminated under § 843.408(b); or
(b) The child is—
(1) A disabled child under § 843.407,
(2) At least age 23, and
(3) Entitled to social security child survivor benefits in an amount that equals or exceeds the amount of the child survivor benefits payable under CSRS.
[52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987]
§ 843.212
Lump-sum payments which include contributions made to a retirement system for employees of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.
A lump-sum payment will include employee contributions and interest as provided under subpart G of part 847 of this chapter.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996]

# Subpart C—Current and Former Spouse Benefits
§ 843.301
Purpose.
This subpart explains the survivor benefits payable under FERS to current and former spouses based on the death or retirees, employees, and separated employees.
§ 843.302
Time for filing applications for death benefits.
A current or former spouse of a deceased retiree, employee, or separated employee may file an application for benefits under this subpart, personally or through a representative, at any time within 30 years after the death of the retiree, employee, or separated employee.
§ 843.303
Marriage duration requirements.
(a) The current spouse of a retiree, an employee, or a separated employee can qualify for a current spouse annuity or the basic employee death benefit only if—
(1) The current spouse and the retiree, employee, or separated employee had been married for at least 9 months, as explained in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) A child was born of the marriage, as explained in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(3) The death of the retiree, employee, or separated employee was accidental as explained in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) For satisfying the 9-month marriage requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the aggregate time of all marriages between the spouse applying for a current spouse annuity and the retiree, employee, or separated employee is included.
(c) For satisfying the child-born-of-the-marriage requirement of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any child, including a posthumous child, born to the spouse and the retiree, employee, or separated employee is included. This includes a child born out of wedlock if the parents later married or of a prior marriage between the same parties.
(d)(1) A death is accidental if it results from homicide or from bodily injuries incurred solely through violent, external, and accidental means. The term “accidental” does not include a death caused by or the result of intentional self-destruction or intentionally self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane.
(2) A State judicial or administrative adjudication of the cause of death for criminal or insurance purposes is conclusive evidence of whether a death is accidental.
(3) A death certificate showing the cause of death as accident or homicide is
prima facie
evidence that the death was accidental.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987]
§ 843.304
Commencing and terminating dates of survivor annuities.
(a) A current or former spouse annuity under this subpart commences on the day after the death of the person on whose service the annuity is based.
(b) A current or former spouse annuity under this subpart terminates on the last day of the month before the current or former spouse remarries before age 55 or dies.
(c) A current spouse annuity under this subpart terminated for reasons other than death may be restored under § 843.305.
(d) A survivor annuity accrues on a daily basis, one-thirtieth of the monthly rate constituting the daily rate. An annuity does not accrue for the 31st day of any month, except in the initial month if the survivor's (of a deceased employee) annuity commences on the 31st day. For accrual purposes, the last day of a 28-day month constitutes 3 days and the last day of a 29-day month constitutes 2 days.
§ 843.305
Reinstatement.
(a) If a current spouse annuity is terminated because of a remarriage of the recipient, the annuity is reinstated on the day of the termination of the remarriage by death, annulment, or divorce if—
(1) The surviving spouse elects to receive this annuity instead of another survivor benefit to which he or she may be entitled (under FERS or another retirement system for Government employees) by reason of the remarriage; and
(2) Any lump sum paid on termination of the annuity is repaid (in a single payment or by withholding payment of the annuity until the amount of the lump sum has accrued).
(b) If present or future entitlement to a former spouse annuity terminates because of remarriage of the recipient or potential recipient, the entitlement is permanently extinguished. An annulment of the remarriage does not reinstate the entitlement.
§ 843.306
Basic benefits on death of a non-disability retiree.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 843.307 and 843.312, and paragraph (b) of this section, if an annuitant dies and is survived by a current spouse, the current spouse is entitled to a current spouse annuity equal to 50 percent of an annuity computed under subpart D of part 842 of this chapter, with respect to the retiree, unless—
(1) The right to a current spouse annuity was waived under § 842.603 of this chapter (and no election was subsequently made under § 842.610 of this chapter nullifying the waiver); or
(2) In the case of a marriage after retirement, the retiree did not file an election under § 842.612 of this chapter.
(b) A current spouse who married the retiree after retirement is entitled to an annuity under paragraph (a) of this section only upon electing this annuity instead of any other survivor benefit to which such spouse may be entitled under this subpart, subpart B of this part, or under another retirement system for Government employees.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987]
§ 843.307
Basic benefits on death of a disability retiree.
(a) Except as provided in § 843.312, the widow or widower of a retiree who retired based on disability under part 844 of this chapter is entitled to a current spouse annuity based on the service of the disability annuitant computed under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)(1) In the case of a current spouse entitled to an annuity based on the service of a disability annuitant who died after attaining age 62, the amount of the current spouse annuity is one-half of the amount of the annuity to which such disability annuitant was entitled as computed under part 844 of this chapter (including any appropriate reduction under § 844.302(b)(2) or (c)(2) of this chapter, and any adjustments under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code) as of the day before the date of the disability annuitant's death.
(2) In the case of a current spouse entitled to an annuity based on the service of a disability annuitant who dies before age 62, the amount of the current spouse annuity equals 50 percent of the amount to which the disability annuitant would have been entitled under § 844.303 of this chapter, if the disability annuitant had attained age 62 on the day before his or her death. However, in determining the amount under § 844.303(a) of this chapter, creditable service includes the period of time between the date of death and the date of the 62nd anniversary of the birth of the annuitant, but average pay is adjusted (under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code) only through date of death.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987]
§ 843.308
Supplementary benefits on death of a retiree.
(a) Except as provided in § 843.312 and paragraph (d) of this section, a current spouse of a deceased retiree who is entitled to a current spouse annuity based on the retiree's service is also entitled to a supplementary annuity.
(b) The amount of the supplementary annuity under this section equals the lesser of—
(1) The amount by which the survivor's assumed CSRS annuity exceeds the annuity payable to the current spouse under § 843.306 or § 843.307; or
(2) The amount equal to the widow's or widower's insurance benefits that would be payable to him or her under title II of the Social Security Act (without regard to section 202(f)(2) of the Act) based on the wages and self-employment income of the deceased annuitant, except that for purposes of this calculation—
(i) The social security earnings test (section 203 of the Act) does not apply; and
(ii) The benefit is computed—
(A) As of the date on which the retiree dies; and
(B) As if the survivor had attained age 60 and made application for those benefits under subsection (e) or (f) of section 202 of the Act; and
(iii) In computing the primary insurance amount—
(A) For years of service under FERS, only the retiree's basic pay is considered to be wages; and
(B) For each year after age 21 for which the retiree did not work under FERS, the retiree's wages are deemed to equal the National Average Wage Index (as determined by the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration) corresponding to that year, multiplied by the retiree's basic pay for his or her first full year of employment under FERS, divided by the National Average Wage Index corresponding to the retiree's first full year of employment under FERS.
(c)(1) The supplementary annuity terminates at the beginning of the month in which the survivor first satisfies the minimum age requirement under section 202(e)(1)(B)(i) or 202(f)(1)(B)(i) of the Social Security Act.
(2) The supplementary annuity is not payable to a survivor—
(i) Who would not be entitled to benefits under section 202 (e) or (f) of the Social Security Act based on the wages and self-employment income of the deceased annuitant (determined, as of the date of the annuitant's death, as if the survivor had attained age 60 and made appropriate application for benefits, but without regard to any restriction relating to remarriage); or
(ii) For any calendar month in which the survivor is entitled (or would, on
proper application, be entitled) to benefits under section 202(g) of the Social Security Act (relating to mother's and father's insurance benefits), or under section 202 (e) or (f) of the Act by reason of having become disabled, based on the wages and self-employment income of the deceased annuitant.
(d) For purposes of this section—
(1) “Assumed CSRS annuity,” as used in the case of a survivor, means the amount of the annuity to which such survivor would be entitled under CSRS based on the service of the deceased annuitant, which is determined—
(i) As of the day after the date of the annuitant's death;
(ii) As if the survivor had made appropriate application therefor; and
(iii) As if the service of the deceased annuitant were creditable under CSRS.
(2) “Basic pay” means “basic pay” as defined in section 8401 of title 5, United States Code.
(e) An amount payable under this section will be adjusted under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code, and will be treated in the same way as an amount payable under § 843.306 or § 843.307.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 69 FR 69806, Dec. 1, 2004]
§ 843.309
Basic employee death benefit.
(a) Except as provided in § 843.312, if an employee or Member dies after completing at least 18 months of civilian service creditable under subpart C of part 842 of this chapter and is survived by a current spouse who meets the requirements of § 843.303, the current spouse is entitled to the basic employee death benefit equal to the sum of—
(1) Fifty percent of the final annual rate of basic pay (or of the average pay, if higher) of the employee; and
(2) Fifteen thousand dollars as adjusted under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code.
(b) The current spouse may elect to receive the basic employee death benefit in one of the following forms—
(1) A one-time payment; or
(2) For deaths occurring on or after October 1, 2021, 36 equal monthly installments of 2.94259 percent of the amount of the basic employee death benefit.
(c)(1)(i) A current spouse who has elected to receive the basic employee death benefit in 36 installments under paragraph (b)(2) of this section may elect to receive the remaining portion of the basic employee death benefit in one payment.
(ii) The election to receive the remaining portion of the basic employee death benefit in one payment must be in writing and signed by the current spouse.
(iii) The election to receive the remaining portion of the basic employee death benefit in one payment is irrevocable when OPM authorizes the payment.
(2) Upon the death of a current spouse who was receiving the basic employee death benefit in 36 installments under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the remaining portion of the basic employee death benefit will be paid as one payment to the estate of the current spouse.
(3) As used in this section, “remaining portion of the basic employee death benefit” means the amount of the basic employee death benefit computed under paragraph (a) of this section that has not been paid. The amount is the remaining principal computed based on an amortization schedule with the initial principal equal to the amount computed under paragraph (a) of this section and the interest rate based on the applicable factor under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987; 52 FR 36389, Sept. 29, 1987; 56 FR 65419, Dec. 17, 1991; 69 FR 69806, Dec. 1, 2004; 76 FR 52540, Aug. 23, 2011; 76 FR 55213, Sept. 7, 2011; 79 FR 66279, Nov. 7, 2014; 84 FR 49636, Sept. 23, 2019; 85 FR 59379, Sept. 22, 2020; 86 FR 52952, Sept. 24, 2021]
§ 843.310
Annuity based on death of an employee.
Except as provided in § 843.312, if an employee dies after completing at least 10 years of service, a current spouse is entitled to an annuity equal to 50 percent of the annuity computed under subpart D of part 842 of this chapter (without reduction for age), with respect to the employee. The annuity is
in addition to the benefit described in § 843.309.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987]
§ 843.311
Annuity based on death of a separated employee.
(a) Except as provided in § 843.312, if a separated employee who has completed at least 10 years of service dies after having separated from the service with title to a deferred annuity under § 842.212 of this chapter, but before having established a valid claim for an annuity, and is survived by a current spouse to whom he or she was married on the date of separation, the current spouse may elect to receive—
(1) An annuity under paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) The unexpended balance, if the current spouse is the individual who would be entitled to the unexpended balance.
(b) Except as provided in § 843.312 and paragraph (c) of this section, the current spouse annuity under this section equals 50 percent of an annuity computed under subpart D of part 842 of this chapter, for the separated employee. If the separated employee died before having attained the minimum retirement age, the computation is made as if the separated employee had attained the minimum retirement age.
(c)(1) The current spouse annuity commences on the day after the separated employee would have attained—
(i) Age 62 if the separated employee had less than 20 years of creditable service,
(ii) Age 60 if the employee had at least 20 years of creditable service but less than 30 years of creditable service; or
(iii) The minimum retirement age if the employee had at least 30 years of creditable service.
(2)(i) The current spouse may elect to receive an adjusted annuity beginning on the day after the death of the separated employee.
(ii) The rate of the adjusted annuity equals the annuity computed under paragraph (b) of this section multiplied by the factor in appendix A of this subpart for the age of the retiree as of the birthday before the retiree's death.
[52 FR 2074, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987; 57 FR 54681, Nov. 20, 1992]
§ 843.312
Payment to former spouses.
(a) Any benefit (or a portion of any benefit) payable to a current spouse under this subpart is payable to a former spouse instead if the former spouse is entitled to that benefit under the terms of a qualifying court order or an election under subpart F of part 842 of this chapter.
(b) A current spouse annuity may not exceed the difference between—
(1) The amount of the annuity that would otherwise be payable to the current spouse under this subpart; and
(2) The amount of the annuity payable to any former spouse of the deceased employee, retiree, or separated employee based on an election made under subpart F of part 842 of this chapter or a qualifying court order.
(c) The basic employee death benefit paid to a current spouse may not exceed the difference between—
(1) The amount that would otherwise be payable to the current spouse under § 843.310; and
(2) The portion of the basic employee death benefit payable to a former spouse based on a qualifying court order.
§ 843.313
Elections between survivor annuities.
(a) A current spouse annuity cannot be reinstated under § 843.305 unless—
(1) The surviving spouse elects to receive the reinstated current spouse annuity instead of any other payments (except any accrued but unpaid annuity and any unpaid employee contributions) to which he or she may be entitled under FERS, or any other retirement system for Government employees, by reason of the remarriage; and
(2) Any lump sum paid on termination of the annuity is returned to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
(b) A current spouse is entitled to a current spouse annuity based on an election under § 842.612 only upon electing this current spouse annuity instead
of any other payments (except any accrued but unpaid annuity and any unpaid employee contributions) to which he or she may be entitled under FERS, or any other retirement system for Government employees.
(c) A former spouse who marries a retiree is entitled to a former spouse annuity based on an election by that retiree under § 842.611, or a qualifying court order terminating that marriage to that retiree only upon electing this former spouse annuity instead of any other payments (except any accrued but unpaid annuity and any unpaid employee contributions) to which he or she may be entitled under FERS, or any other retirement system for Government employees.
(d) As used in this section, “any other retirement system for Government employees” does not include Survivor Benefit Payments from a military retirement system or social security benefits.
[57 FR 54681, Nov. 20, 1992]
§ 843.314
Amount of survivor annuity where service includes credit for service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.
(a) The survivor annuity based on service that includes service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality made creditable by an election under 5 CFR part 847, subpart D, is computed under 5 CFR part 847, subpart F.
(b) The survivor annuity based on service that includes service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality made creditable by an election under 5 CFR part 847, subpart H, is computed under 5 CFR part 847, subpart I.
[68 FR 2178, Jan. 16, 2003]
Pt. 843, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 843—Present Value Conversion Factors for Earlier Commencing Date of Annuities of Current and Former Spouses of Deceased Separated Employees
With at least 10 but less than 20 years of creditable service—
Age of separated employee at birthday before death
Multiplier
26
.1081
27
.1146
28
.1215
29
.1289
30
.1367
31
.1451
32
.1539
33
.1634
34
.1735
35
.1840
36
.1954
37
.2071
38
.2196
39
.2326
40
.2460
41
.2611
42
.2772
43
.2939
44
.3124
45
.3314
46
.3525
47
.3743
48
.3978
49
.4230
50
.4500
51
.4792
52
.5106
53
.5442
54
.5804
55
.6190
56
.6614
57
.7070
58
.7565
59
.8100
60
.8680
61
.9312
With at least 20, but less than 30 years of creditable service—
Age of separated employee at birthday before death
Multiplier
36
.2248
37
.2383
38
.2528
39
.2679
40
.2835
41
.3009
42
.3195
43
.3389
44
.3601
45
.3821
46
.4064
47
.4316
48
.4587
49
.4878
50
.5190
51
.5526
52
.5887
53
.6274
54
.6691
55
.7137
56
.7623
57
.8149
58
.8717
59
.9332
With at least 30 years of creditable service—
Age of separated employee at
birthday before
death
Multiplier by
separated
employee's
year of birth
After 1966
From 1950
through 1966
46
.4989
.5332
47
.5300
.5665
48
.5634
.6021
49
.5991
.6403
50
.6374
.6813
51
.6786
.7253
52
.7228
.7725
53
.7703
.8232
54
.8213
.8778
55
.8763
.9365
56
.9357
1.0000
[88 FR 66680, Sept. 28, 2023]

# Subpart D—Child Annuities
§ 843.401
Purpose.
This subpart explains the survivor benefits payable under FERS to children based on the deaths of employees and retirees.
§ 843.402
Eligibility requirements.
A surviving child of an employee or retiree who dies after completing 18 months of civilian service creditable under FERS is entitled to an annuity under this subpart.
§ 843.403
Proof of parentage.
(a) A judicial determination of parentage conclusively establishes the paternity of a child.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, a child born to the wife of a married person is presumed to be the child of the wife's husband. This presumption may be rebutted only by clear and convincing evidence that the husband is not the father of the child.
(c) When paternity is not established under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, paternity is determined by a preponderance of the credible evidence as defined in § 1201.56(c)(2) of this title.
§ 843.404
Proof of adoption.
(a) An adopted child is—
(1) A child adopted by the employee or retiree before the death of the employee or retiree; or
(2) A child who lived with the employee or retiree and for whom a petition for adoption was filed by the employee or retiree and who is adopted by the current spouse of the employee or retiree after the death of the employee or retiree.
(b) The only acceptable evidence to prove status as an adopted child under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is a copy of the judicial decree of adoption.
(c) The only acceptable evidence to prove status as an adopted child under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is copies of—
(1) The petition for adoption (clearly showing the date filed); and
(2) The judicial decree of adoption.
§ 843.405
Dependency.
To be eligible for survivor annuity benefits, a child must have been dependent on the employee or retiree at the time of the employee's or retiree's death.
§ 843.406
Proof of dependency.
(a) A child is considered to have been dependent on the deceased employee or retiree if he or she is—
(1) A legitimate child; or
(2) An adopted child; or
(3) A stepchild or recognized natural child who lived with the employee or retiree in a regular parent-child relationship at the time of the employee's or retirees death; or
(4) A recognized natural child for whom a judicial determination of support was obtained; or
(5) A recognized natural child to whose support the employee or retiree made regular and substantial contributions.
(b) The following are examples of proofs of regular and substantial support. More than one of the following proofs may be required to show support of a natural child who did not live with the employee or retiree in a regular parent-child relationship and for whom a judicial determination of support was not obtained.
(1) Evidence of eligibility as a dependent child for benefits under other State or Federal programs;
(2) Proof of inclusion of the child as a dependent on the decedent's income tax returns for the years immediately before the employee's or retiree's death;
(3) Cancelled checks, money orders, or receipts for periodic payments received from the employee or retiree for or on behalf of the child;
(4) Evidence of goods or services that show regular contributions of considerable value;
(5) Proof of coverage of the child as a family member under the employee's or retiree's Federal Employees Health Benefits enrollment; and
(6) Other proof of a similar nature that OPM may find to be sufficient to demonstrate support or parentage.
(c) Survivor benefits may be denied—
(1) If evidence shows that the deceased employee or retiree did not recognize the claimant as his or her own despite a willingness to support the child; or
(2) If evidence casts doubt upon the parentage of the claimant, despite the deceased employee's or retiree's recognition and support of the child.
§ 843.407
Disabilities.
A child is eligible for continued annuity because the child is incapable of self-support if the Social Security Administration finds that the child is eligible for continued social security child's benefits because the child is incapable of self-support.
§ 843.408
Commencing and terminating dates of child annuities.
(a) An annuity under this subpart—
(1) Commences on the day after the retiree or employee dies;
(2) Commences or resumes on the first day of the month in which the child later becomes or again becomes a student as described by § 843.313, if any lump sum paid is returned to the Civil Service Retirement Fund; or
(3) Commences or resumes on the first day of the month in which the child later becomes or again becomes incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical disability incurred before age 18 (or a later recurrence of such disability), if any lump sum is returned to the Fund.
(b) An annuity under this subpart terminates on the last day of the month before the child—
(1) Becomes 18 years of age unless he or she is a student as described in § 843.410 or is incapable of self-support;
(2) Becomes capable of self-support after becoming 18 years of age unless he or she is a student as described in § 843.410;
(3) Becomes 22 years of age if he or she is a student as described in § 843.410 and—
(i) Capable of self-support; or
(ii) Incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical disability incurred after age 18;
(4) Ceases to be such a student as described in § 843.410 after becoming 18 years of age unless he or she is incapable of self-support; or
(5) Dies or marries.
(c) A survivor annuity accrues on a daily basis, one-thirtieth of the monthly rate constituting the daily rate. An annuity does not accrue for the 31st day of any month, except in the initial month if the survivor's (of a deceased employee) annuity commences on the 31st day. For accrual purposes, the last day of a 28-day month constitutes 3 days and the last day of a 29-day month constitutes 2 days.
§ 843.409
Rates of annuities.
(a) For each month, the amount of annuity payable to each surviving child under this subpart is—
(1) The difference between the basic child's annuity rate for that month and the total amount of child's insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act payable for that month to all children of the employee or retiree based on the total earnings (including any non-Federal wages or self employment subject to FICA taxes) of the employee or retiree;
(2) Divided by the total number of children entitled to annuity based on the service of that employee or retiree.
(b) On the death of the current spouse or the former spouse or termination of the annuity of a child, the annuity of any other child or children is recomputed and paid as though the spouse, former spouse, or child had not survived the former employee or Member.
§ 843.410
Annuity for a child age 18 to 22 during full-time school attendance.
(a)
General requirements for an annuity.
(1) For a child age 18 to 22 to be eligible to receive an annuity as a full-time student, the child must also meet all other requirements applicable to qualify for an annuity by a child who has not attained age 18.
(2) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, OPM must receive certification, in a form prescribed by OPM, that the child is regularly pursuing a full-time course of study in an accredited institution.
(b)
Full-time course of study.
(1) Generally, a full-time course of study is a noncorrespondence course which, if successfully completed, will lead to completion of the education within the period generally accepted as minimum for completion, by a full-time day student, of the academic or training program concerned.
(2) A certification by an accredited institution that the student's workload is sufficient to constitute a full-time course of study for the program in which the student is enrolled is prima facie evidence that the student is pursuing a full-time course of study.
(c)
Certification of school attendance.
(1) OPM may periodically request the recipient of a child's annuity payments to furnish certification of school attendance. The certification must be completed in the form prescribed by OPM.
(2) If OPM requests the recipient of a child's annuity payments to provide a self-certification of school attendance, the recipient must complete and sign the certification form.
(3) If OPM requests the recipient of a child's annuity payments to provide a certification by the school, the certification must be signed by an official who is either in charge of the school or in charge of the school's records. OPM will not accept certification forms signed by instructors, counselors, aides, roommates, or others not in charge of the school or the records.
(i) If the educational institution is above the high school level, the certification must be signed by the president or chancellor, vice president or vice chancellor, dean or assistant dean, registrar or administrator, assistant registrar or assistant administrator, or the equivalent.
(ii) If the educational institution is at the high school level, the certification must be signed by the superintendent of schools, assistant superintendent of schools, principal, vice principal, assistant principal, or the equivalent.
(iii) If the educational institution is a technical or trade school, the certification must be signed by the president, vice president, director, assistant director, or the equivalent.
(4) OPM will accept a facsimile signature of a school official only if it is accompanied by a raised seal of the institution or other evidence clearly demonstrating the authenticity of the certification and making unauthorized use of the signature stamp unlikely.
(d)
Continuation of annuity during interim breaks.
A child's annuity continues during interim breaks between school years if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The student must have been a full-time student at the end of the school term immediately before the break.
(2) The break between the end of the last term of full-time attendance and the return to full-time attendance must not exceed 5 months. (See § 841.109 of this chapter, concerning calculation of this time period.)
(3) The recipient of a child's annuity payments must show that the student has a bona fide intent to return to school as a full-time student immediately after the break. The full-time certification for the period term and the certification (in a form prescribed by OPM) by the recipient of a child's annuity payments that the student intends to return to school (immediately after the break) as a full-time student constitute prima facie evidence of a bona fide intent to return to school.
(e)
Benefits after age 22.
(1) A student's eligibility for a child's annuity terminates based on reaching age 22 on—
(i) June 30 of the calendar year of the child's 22nd birthday if the child's birthday is before July 1; or
(ii) The last day of the month before the child's 22nd birthday if the child's
birthday occurs after June 30 but before September 1 of the calendar year; or
(iii) June 30 of the year after the one in which the child attains age 22 if the child's birthday is after August 31 of the calendar year.
(2)(i) An otherwise eligible child who becomes a full-time student after his or her 22nd birthday but before the date the annuity terminates under paragraph (e)(1) of this section is eligible for annuity while he or she is a full-time student until the termination date under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(ii) An otherwise eligible child who is a full-time student, and whose parent dies after the child's 22nd birthday but before the date the annuity terminates under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, is eligible for annuity while he or she is a full-time student after the death of the parent until the termination date under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[58 FR 32052, June 8, 1993]
§ 843.411
Direct payments to children.
For purposes of section 8466(c) of title 5, United States Code, persons who have attained age 18 are considered adults, regardless of the age of majority in the jurisdiction in which they reside.

# Subpart E—Insurable Interest Annuities
§ 843.501
Purpose.
This subpart explains the benefit payable under FERS to an insurable interest beneficiary based on the death of a retiree who elected to take an annuity reduction to provide such benefits.
§ 843.502
Eligibility.
An insurable interest beneficiary is eligible for an annuity under this subpart upon the death of a retiree if the retiree had elected (under § 842.606 of this chapter) to receive an insurable interest rate with the insurable interest beneficiary as his or her survivor.
§ 843.503
Commencing and terminating dates.
(a) An annuity under this subpart commences on the day after the retiree dies.
(b) An annuity under this subpart terminates on the last day of the month before the insurable interest beneficiary dies.
(c) A survivor annuity accrues on a daily basis, one-thirtieth of the monthly rate constituting the daily rate. An annuity does not accrue for the 31st day of any month, except in the initial month if the survivor's (of a deceased employee) annuity commences on the 31st day. For accrual purposes, the last day of a 28-day month constitutes 3 days and the last day of a 29-day month constitutes 2 days.
§ 843.504
Rate of annuity.
The amount of an annuity under this subpart is 55 percent of the retiree's annuity after the insurable interest reduction.
Pt. 844

# PART 844—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM—DISABILITY RETIREMENT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
844.101
Purpose.
844.102
Definitions.
844.103
Eligibility.
844.104
Administrative review of OPM decisions.
844.105
Relationship to workers' compensation.
844.106
Disability annuities which include credit for service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.

# Subpart B—Applications for Disability Retirement
844.201
General requirements.
844.202
Agency-filed disability retirement applications.
844.203
Supporting documentation.

# Subpart C—Computation of Disability Annuity
844.301
Commencing date of disability annuity.
844.302
Computation of disability annuity before age 62.
844.303
Minimum disability annuity.
844.304
Computation of disability annuity for those otherwise eligible to retire.
844.305
Redetermination of disability annuity at age 62.

# Subpart D—Termination and Reinstatement of Disability Annuity
844.401
Recovery from disability.
844.402
Restoration of earning capacity.
844.403
Annuity rights after a disability annuity terminates.
844.404
Reinstatement of disability annuity.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8461.
Section 844.201 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 1104.

# Source:
55 FR 6598, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 844.101
Purpose.
This part establishes the requirements under the Federal Employees' Retirement System (FERS) for eligibility to receive a disability annuity, application procedures for disability annuities, rules for computing a disability annuity, and the conditions and procedures under which a disability annuity is terminated and reinstated.
§ 844.102
Definitions.
In this part:
Accommodation
means a reasonable adjustment made to an employee's job or work environment that enables the employee to perform the duties of the position. Accommodation may include modifying the worksite; adjusting the work schedule; restructuring the job; obtaining or modifying equipment or devices; providing interpreters, readers, or personal assistants; and retraining the employee.
Basic pay
means the pay an employee receives that is subject to deductions under FERS.
Commuting area
has the meaning given the term “local commuting area” in § 351.203 of this chapter.
Disabled
and
disability
means unable or inability, because of disease or injury, to render useful and efficient service in the employee's current position.
FERS
means the Federal Employees' Retirement System established under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Medical condition
means a health impairment resulting from a disease or injury, including a psychiatric disease. This is the same definition of “medical condition” that is found in § 339.104 of this chapter.
Medical documentation
means a statement from a licensed physician, which may be supplemented by a statement from another appropriate practitioner, that provides information OPM considers necessary to determine an individual's entitlement to benefits under this part. Such a statement must meet the criteria set forth in § 339.104 of this chapter.
Military reserve technician
has the same meaning given this term in 5 U.S.C. 8401(30).
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Permanent position
means an appointment without time limitation.
Physician
and
practitioner
have the same meaning given these terms in § 339.104 of this chapter.
Qualified for reassignment
means able to meet the minimum requirements for the grade and series of the vacant position in question.
Same grade or pay level
means, in regard to a vacant position within the same pay as the position the employee currently occupies, the same grade and an equivalent amount of basic pay. A position under a different pay system or schedule is at the same pay level if the representative rate, as defined in § 532.401 of this chapter, equals the representative rate of the employee's current position.
Useful and efficient service
means acceptable performance of the critical or essential elements of the position; and satisfactory conduct and attendance.
Vacant position
means an unoccupied position of the same grade or pay level and tenure for which the employee is qualified for reassignment that is located in the same commuting area and, except in the case of a military reserve technician, is serviced by the same appointing authority of the employing agency. The vacant position must be full time, unless the employee's current position is less than full time, in which case the vacant position must have a work schedule of no less time than that of the current position. In
the case of an employee of the United States Postal Service, a vacant position does not include a position in a different craft or a position to which reassignment would be inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining agreement covering the employee.
§ 844.103
Eligibility.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an individual must meet the following requirements in order to receive a disability annuity:
(1) The individual must have completed at least 18 months of civilian service that is creditable under FERS, as defined in § 842.304 of this chapter;
(2) The individual must, while employed in a position subject to FERS, have become disabled because of a medical condition, resulting in a deficiency in performance, conduct, or attendance, or if there is no such deficiency, the disabling medical condition must be incompatible with either useful and efficient service or retention in the position;
(3) The disabling medical condition must be expected to continue for at least 1 year from the date the application for disability retirement is filed;
(4) Accommodation of the disabling medical condition in the position held must be unreasonable; and
(5) The individual must not have declined an offer of reassignment to a vacant position.
(b) The employing agency must consider a disability applicant for reassignment to any vacant position. The agency must certify to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) either that there is no vacant position or that, although it made no offer of reassignment, it considered the individual for a vacant position. If an agency offers a reassignment and the individual declines the offer, the individual may appeal the agency's determination that the individual is not disabled for the position in question to the Merit Systems Protection Board under 5 U.S.C. 7701.
(c)(1) Paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4) of this section do not apply to a military reserve technician who retires under 5 U.S.C. 8456.
(2) An individual who separates from employment as a military reserve technician under circumstances set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8456(a)(1) after reaching age 50 and completing 25 years of service is not entitled to a disability annuity under this part, but is entitled to an annuity under § 842.210 of this chapter.
(3) A former military reserve technician is not entitled to an annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8456 based on service as a technician if the technician is subsequently appointed to another position in the Federal Government.
§ 844.104
Administrative review of OPM decisions.
Any individual whose rights or interests under FERS are affected by an initial decision of OPM may request OPM to review its decision under § 841.306.
§ 844.105
Relationship to workers' compensation.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an individual who is eligible for both an annuity under part 842 or 844 of this chapter and compensation for injury or disability under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code (other than a scheduled award under 5 U.S.C. 8107(c)), covering the same period of time must elect to receive either the annuity or compensation.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, an individual may concurrently receive an annuity based on the individual's service under part 842 or 844 of this chapter and a benefit under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, on account of the death of another individual. An individual may also receive an annuity under part 843 of this chapter and compensation for injury or disability to himself or herself under such subchapter I covering the same period of time.
(c) An individual who elects to receive compensation payments under paragraph (a) of this section and who has not received a refund of contributions under § 843.202 retains the right to elect to receive an annuity under part 842 or 844, as the case may be, in the event that the individual's compensation payments cease or are reduced.
§ 844.106
Disability annuities which include credit for service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.
A disability annuity that includes credit for service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality performed after December 31, 1965, based on an election under 5 CFR part 847, subpart D, is computed under 5 CFR part 847, subpart F.
[68 FR 2178, Jan. 16, 2003]

# Subpart B—Applications for Disability Retirement
§ 844.201
General requirements.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section, an application for disability retirement is timely only if it is filed with the employing agency before the employee or Member separates from service, or with the former employing agency or OPM within 1 year thereafter.
(2) An application for disability retirement that is filed with OPM, an employing agency or former employing agency by personal delivery is considered filed on the date on which OPM, the employing agency or former employing agency receives it. The date of filing by facsimile is the date of the facsimile. The date of filing by mail is determined by the postmark date; if no legible postmark date appears on the mailing, the application is presumed to have been mailed 5 days before its receipt, excluding days on which OPM, the employing agency or former employing agency, as appropriate, is closed for business. The date of filing by commercial overnight delivery is the date the application is given to the overnight delivery service.
(3) An application for disability retirement that is filed with OPM or the applicant's former employing agency within 1 year after the employee's separation, and that is incompletely executed or submitted in a letter or other form not prescribed by OPM, is deemed timely filed. OPM will not adjudicate the application or make payment until the application is filed on a form prescribed by OPM.
(4) OPM may waive the 1-year time limit if the employee or Member is mentally incompetent on the date of separation or within 1 year thereafter, in which case the individual or his or her representative must file the application with the former employing agency or OPM within 1 year after the date the individual regains competency or a court appoints a fiduciary, whichever is earlier.
(b)(1) Before payment of a disability annuity under this part can be authorized, the applicant must provide OPM with:
(i) Satisfactory evidence that the applicant has filed an application for disability insurance benefits under section 223 of the Social Security Act; or
(ii) An official statement from the Social Security Administration that the individual is not insured for disability insurance benefits as defined in section 223(c)(1) of the Social Security Act.
(2) A disability retirement application under this part will be dismissed when OPM is notified by the Social Security Administration that the application referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section has been withdrawn. All rights to an annuity under this part terminate upon withdrawal of an application for social security disability benefits.
(c) An agency may consider the existence of a pending disability retirement application when deciding whether and when to take other personnel actions. An employee's filing for disability retirement does not require the agency to delay any appropriate personnel action.
[55 FR 6598, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 63 FR 17050, Apr. 8, 1998]
§ 844.202
Agency-filed disability retirement applications.
(a)
Basis for filing an application for an employee.
An agency must file an application for disability retirement of an employee who has 18 months of Federal civilian service when all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The agency has issued a decision to remove the employee;
(2) The agency concludes, after its review of medical documentation, that the cause for unacceptable performance, attendance, or conduct is disease or injury;
(3) The employee is institutionalized, or the agency concludes, based on a review of medical and other information, that the employee is incapable of making a decision to file an application for disability retirement;
(4) The employee has no personal representative or guardian; and
(5) The employee has no immediate family member who is willing to file an application on his or her behalf.
(b)
Agency procedures.
(1) When an agency issues a decision to remove an employee and not all of the conditions described in paragraph (a) of this section have been satisfied, but the removal is based on reasons apparently caused by a medical condition, the agency must advise the employee in writing of his or her possible eligibility for disability retirement and of the time limit for filing an application.
(2) If all of the conditions described in paragraph (a) of this section have been met, the agency must inform the employee in writing at the same time it informs the employee of its removal decision, or at any time before the separation is effected, that:
(i) The agency is submitting a disability retirement application on the employee's behalf to OPM;
(ii) The employee may review any medical information in accordance with § 294.106(d) of this chapter; and
(iii) The action does not affect the employee's right to submit a voluntary application for disability retirement or any other retirement benefit to which the employee is entitled under FERS.
(3) When an agency submits an application for disability retirement to OPM on behalf of an employee, it must provide OPM with copies of the decision to remove the employee, the medical documentation, and any other documents needed to show that the cause for removal results from a medical condition. Following separation, the agency must provide OPM with a copy of the documentation of the separation.
(c)
OPM procedures.
(1) OPM will not act on any application for disability retirement filed by an agency on behalf of an employee until it receives the appropriate documentation of the separation. When OPM receives a complete application for disability retirement under this section, it will notify the former employee that it has received the application and that he or she may submit medical documentation. OPM will determine entitlement to disability benefits under § 844.203.
(2) OPM will cancel any disability retirement when a final decision of an administrative authority or court reverses the removal action and orders the reinstatement of an employee to the agency rolls.
§ 844.203
Supporting documentation.
(a) An individual or agency filing an application for disability retirement is responsible for providing OPM with the evidence described in § 844.201(b)(1), as well as whatever documentation OPM requires in order to determine whether the individual meets the eligibility requirements set forth in § 844.103. The documentation must be provided in a form prescribed by OPM. Failure to submit the documentation required is grounds for dismissing the application. It is also the responsibility of the disability annuitant to obtain and submit evidence OPM requires to show continuing entitlement to disability benefits. Unless OPM orders an examination by a physician of its choice under paragraph (b) of this section, the cost of providing medical documentation rests with the applicant or disability annuitant.
(b) OPM may offer the applicant a medical examination when it determines that an independent evaluation of medical evidence is needed in order to make a decision regarding an application for a disability annuity or a disability annuitant's entitlement to continuing benefits. The medical examination will be conducted by a medical officer of the United States or a qualified physician or board of physicians designated by OPM. The applicant's refusal to submit to an examination is grounds for dismissal of the application or termination of payments to an annuitant.
(c)(1) OPM will review the documentation submitted under paragraph (a) of this section to determine whether the individual has met the eligibility requirements set forth in § 844.103. OPM will issue its decision in writing to the individual and to the employing agency. The decision will
include a statement of OPM's findings and conclusions and an explanation of the applicant's right to request reconsideration or MSPB review under § 844.104.
(2) OPM may rescind a decision to allow an application for disability retirement at any time if OPM determines that the original decision was erroneous due to fraud, misstatement of fact, or upon the acquisition of additional medical or other documentation. OPM will provide the individual and the employing agency with written notification of the rescission, including a statement of OPM's findings and conclusions and an explanation of the individual's right to request reconsideration or MSPB review under § 844.104.
(d) Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a, any supporting documentation provided to OPM under this section may be shared with the Social Security Administration and the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs of the U.S. Department of Labor.

# Subpart C—Computation of Disability Annuity
§ 844.301
Commencing date of disability annuity.
A disability annuity under this part commences on the day after the employee separates or the day after pay ceases and the employee meets the requirements for title to an annuity.
§ 844.302
Computation of disability annuity before age 62.
(a) For the purposes of this subpart, the “adjusted social security disability benefit” is the benefit to which an annuitant is entitled under section 223 of the Social Security Act:
(1) For the month in which the annuity under this part commences, or is reinstated under § 844.405, or, if later, the first month for which the annuitant is entitled to both an annuity under this part and a social security disability benefit;
(2) Including, where appropriate, a reduction under section 224 of the Social Security Act, based on the amount of the disability annuity under this subpart without regard to paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section; and
(3) Adjusted by each cost-of-living increase effective under 5 U.S.C. 8462(b) beginning with the later of the month after the 12-month period referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or the first month for which the annuitant is entitled to both an annuity under this part and a social security disability benefit.
(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the annuity payable under this subpart until the end of the 12th month beginning after the annuity commences (or is reinstated under § 844.405) is equal to 60 percent of the annuitant's average pay.
(2) For months for which the annuitant is also entitled to a social security disability benefit, the amount computed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is reduced by 100 percent of the annuitant's adjusted social security disability benefit.
(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the annuity under this subpart after the period described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is equal to 40 percent of the annuitant's average pay.
(2) For months after the period described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for which the annuitant is also entitled to a social security disability benefit, the amount computed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is reduced by 60 percent of the annuitant's adjusted social security disability benefit.
(d) For months in which an annuity is reduced under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, any reduction for survivor benefits is made after the reduction for social security benefits.
§ 844.303
Minimum disability annuity.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, an annuity payable under this part cannot be less than the amount of an annuity computed under 5 U.S.C. 8415 (excluding subsection (f) of that section) based on the annuitant's service.
§ 844.304
Computation of disability annuity for those otherwise eligible to retire.
(a) An individual retiring under this part is not entitled to elect to receive an alternative form of annuity under 5
U.S.C. 8420a, even if the individual meets the requirements for retirement under another part and would be entitled to elect an alternative form of annuity in connection therewith.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, an annuity payable under this part will be computed under 5 U.S.C. 8415 if it commences or is reinstated under § 844.405 (b) or (c) of this part on or after:
(1) The annuitant has satisfied the age and service requirements for retirement under 5 U.S.C. 8412 (a) through (f); or
(2) The annuitant has reached age 62.
§ 844.305
Redetermination of disability annuity at age 62.
Effective on and after the annuitant's 62nd birthday, the rate of annuity payable to a disability annuitant will be the amount of an annuity computed with respect to the annuitant under 5 U.S.C. 8415 (including subsection (g) of that section), including credit for all periods before the annuitant's 62nd birthday during which he or she was entitled to an annuity under this part. The average pay used in computing the annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8415 is adjusted by all cost-of-living increases effective under 5 U.S.C. 8462(b) during the period the annuitant was receiving the disability annuity under this part.

# Subpart D—Termination and Reinstatement of Disability Annuity
§ 844.401
Recovery from disability.
(a) Each annuitant receiving disability annuity from the Fund shall be examined under the direction of OPM at the end of one year from the date of disability retirement and annually thereafter until the annuitant becomes 60 years of age unless the disability is found by OPM to be permanent in character. OPM may order a medical or other examination at any time to determine the facts relative to the nature and degree of disability of the annuitant. Failure to submit to reexamination shall result in suspension of annuity.
(b) A disability annuitant may request medical reevaluation under the provisions of this section at any time. OPM may reevaluate the medical condition of disability annuitants age 60 or over only on their own request.
(c)
Recovery based on medical or other documentation.
When OPM determines on the basis of medical documentation or other evidence that a disability annuitant has recovered from the disability, OPM will terminate the annuity effective on the first day of the month beginning 1 year after the date of the medical documentation or other evidence showing recovery. If an agency reemploys a disability annuitant who has been found recovered at any grade or rate of pay within the 1-year period pending termination of the disability annuity under this paragraph, OPM will terminate the annuity effective on the date of reemployment.
(d)
Recovery based on reemployment by the Federal Government.
Reemployment by an agency at any time before age 60 is evidence of recovery if the reemployment is under an appointment not limited to a year or less, at the same or higher grade or pay level as the position from which the disability annuitant retired. The new position must be full-time unless the position the disability annuitant occupied immediately before retirement was less than full-time, in which case the new position must have a work schedule of no less time than that of the position from which the disability annuitant retired. In this instance, OPM needs no medical documentation to find the annuitant recovered. Disability annuity payments will terminate effective on the first day of the month following the month in which the recovery finding is made under this paragraph.
§ 844.402
Restoration of earning capacity.
(a)
Earning capacity determinations.
If a disability annuitant is under age 60 on December 31 of any calendar year and his or her income from wages or self-employment or both during that calendar year equals at least 80 percent of the current rate of basic pay of the position occupied immediately before retirement, the annuitant's earning capacity is considered to be restored. The disability annuity will terminate on
the June 30 after the end of the calendar year in which earning capacity is restored.
(b)
Current rate of basic pay for the position occupied immediately before retirement.
(1) A disability annuitant's income for a calendar year is compared to the gross annual rate of basic pay in effect on December 31 of that year for the position occupied immediately before retirement. The income limitation for most disability annuitants is based on the rate for the grade and step that reflects the total amount of basic pay (both the grade and step and any additional basic pay) in effect on the date of separation from the agency for disability retirement. Additional basic pay is included subject to the premium pay restrictions of 5 U.S.C. 5545 (c)(1) and (c)(2).
(2) In the case of an annuitant whose basic pay rate on the date determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section did not match a specific grade and step in the pay schedule:
(i) For those retiring from a Senior Executive Service position, a merit pay position, a position for which a special pay rate is authorized (except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section), or any other position in which the rate of basic pay is not equal to a grade and step in a pay schedule, the grade and step will be established for this purpose at the lowest step in the pay schedule grade that is equal to or greater than the actual rate of basic pay payable.
(ii) For those retiring with a retained rate of basic pay or from a position for which a special pay rate is in effect but whose rate of basic pay exceeds the highest rate payable in the pay schedule grade applicable to the position held, the grade is established for this purpose at the highest grade in the schedule that is closest to the grade of the position held and within which the amount of the retained pay falls. The step is established for this purpose at the lowest step in that grade that equals or exceeds the actual rate of pay payable.
(3) For annuitants retiring from the United States Postal Service, only cost-of-living allowances subject to FERS deductions are included in determining the current rate of basic pay of the position held at retirement.
(c)
Income.
(1) Earning capacity for the purposes of this section is demonstrated by an annuitant's ability to earn post-retirement income in exchange for personal services or a work product, or as a profit from one or more businesses wholly or partly owned by the disability annuitant and in the management of which the annuitant has an active role. Income for the purposes of this section is not necessarily the same as income for the purposes of the Internal Revenue Code.
(2) Income earned from one source is not offset by losses from another source. Income earned as wages is not reduced by a net loss from self-employment. The net income from each self-employment endeavor is calculated separately, and the income earned as net earnings from one self-employment endeavor is not reduced by a net loss from another self-employment endeavor. Thus, a net loss from one endeavor is considered to be a net income of zero, and the net incomes from each separate self-employment endeavor are added together to determine the total amount of income from self-employment for a calendar year.
(3) Income is counted in the calendar year in which it is earned, even though receipt may be deferred.
(d)
Requirement to report income.
All disability annuitants who, on December 31 of any calendar year, are under age 60 must report to OPM their income from wages or self-employment or both for that calendar year. Each year as early as possible, OPM will send a form to annuitants to use in reporting their income from the previous calendar year. The form specifies the date by which OPM must receive the report. OPM will determine entitlement to continued annuity on the basis of the report. If an annuitant fails to submit the report, OPM may stop annuity payments until it receives the report.
§ 844.403
Annuity rights after a disability annuity terminates.
(a) When a disability annuity is terminated because of recovery or restoration of earning capacity and the individual is not employed in the Government, the individual is entitled to an annuity:
(1) Under 5 U.S.C. 8414(b) if the individual:
(i) Is at least age 50 when the disability annuity ceases and had 20 or more years of service at the time of retiring for disability; or
(ii) Has 25 or more years of service at the time of retiring for disability, regardless of age; or
(2) Under 5 U.S.C. 8412(g) if the individual is at least the minimum retirement age applicable under 5 U.S.C. 8412(h) when the disability annuity ceases and had 10 or more years of service at the time of retiring for disability.
(b) When a disability annuitant whose annuity was terminated because of Federal reemployment is separated and meets the age and service requirements for immediate retirement under 5 U.S.C. 8412 or 8414, the individual is entitled to an annuity computed under 5 U.S.C. 8415.
[55 FR 6598, Feb. 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 48273, Sept. 15, 1993]
§ 844.404
Reinstatement of disability annuity.
(a) When a disability annuity stops, the individual must again prove that he or she meets the eligibility requirements in order to have the annuity reinstated.
(b)
Reinstatement of annuity terminated based on recovery.
(1) When a recovered disability annuitant under age 62 whose annuity was terminated because he or she was found recovered on the basis of medical evidence (§ 844.401) is not reemployed in a position subject to FERS, and, based on the results of a current medical examination, OPM finds that the disability has recurred, OPM will reinstate the disability annuity as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The right to the reinstated annuity begins on the date of the medical documentation showing that the disability has recurred, or if the medical documentation clearly shows that the disability recurred on an earlier date, the annuity will be reinstated on that earlier date.
(2) Except in the case of an individual receiving an annuity under § 844.404(b), OPM will, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, reinstate the disability annuity of a former annuitant whose annuity was terminated because he or she was found recovered on the basis of Federal reemployment when:
(i) The results of a current medical examination show that the individual's medical condition has worsened since the finding of recovery and that the original disability on which retirement was based has recurred; and
(ii) As a result, he or she has been:
(A) Separated and not reemployed in a position subject to FERS; or
(B) Placed in a position that results in a reduction in grade or pay below that from which the individual retired, or in a change to a temporary or intermittent appointment. The right to the reinstated annuity begins on the date the reemployment ends or the effective date of the placement in the position that results in a reduction in grade or pay or change in appointment.
(c)
Reinstatement of annuity terminated because earning capacity was restored.
(1) OPM will reinstate the disability annuity as provided in paragraph (d) of this section when a disability annuitant whose annuity was terminated under § 844.402(a):
(i) Is not reemployed in a position subject to FERS;
(ii) Has not recovered from the disability for which the individual retired (except in the case of a military reserve technician whose annuity was awarded under 5 U.S.C. 8456); and
(iii) Again loses earning capacity, as determined by OPM.
(2) The reinstated annuity is payable from January 1 of the year following the calendar year in which earning capacity was lost. Earning capacity is lost if, during any calendar year, the individual's income from wages or self-employment or both is less than 80 percent of the current rate of basic pay of the position held at retirement.
(d) Except as provided in §§ 844.303 and 844.304, a disability annuity reinstated under the preceding paragraphs
of this section is paid at the rate provided under § 844.302(b) until the end of the 12th month beginning after the annuity is reinstated. Thereafter, the rate determined under § 844.302(c) is payable until age 62.
(e) Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs, an annuity may not be reinstated under this section if the individual is receiving an annuity under part 842 of this chapter.
[55 FR 6598, Feb. 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 48273, Sept. 15, 1993]
Pt. 845

# PART 845—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM—DEBT COLLECTION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
845.101
Purpose.
845.102
Definitions.
845.103
Prohibition against collection of debts.
845.104
Status of debts.
845.105
Termination and suspension of collection actions.

# Subpart B—Collection of Overpayment Debts
845.201
Purpose.
845.202
Scope.
845.203
Definitions.
845.204
Processing.
845.205
Collection of debts.
845.206
Collection by administrative offset.
845.207
Use of consumer reporting agencies.
845.208
Referral to a collection agency.
845.209
Referral for litigation.

# Subpart C—Standards for Waiver of Overpayments
845.301
Conditions for waiver.
845.302
Fault.
845.303
Equity and good conscience.
845.304
Financial hardship.
845.305
Ordinary and necessary living expenses.
845.306
Waiver precluded.
845.307
Burdens of proof.

# Subpart D—Agency Requests to OPM for Recovery of a Debt from the Civil Service Retirement Fund
845.401
Purpose.
845.402
Scope.
845.403
Definitions.
845.404
Conditions for requesting an offset.
845.405
Creditor agency processing for non-fraud claims.
845.406
OPM processing for non-fraud claims.
845.407
Installment withholdings.
845.408
Special processing for fraud claims.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8461.

# Source:
52 FR 5931, Feb. 27, 1987; 52 FR 23014, June 17, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 845.101
Purpose.
(a) This part regulates—
(1) The recovery of overpayments of FERS basic benefits;
(2) The standards for waiver of recovery of overpayments of FERS basic benefits; and
(3) The use of FERS basic benefits to recover debts due the United States.
(b) This subpart states the rules of general applicability to this part.
§ 845.102
Definitions.
In this subpart—
FERS
means the Federal Employees Retirement System as described in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
FERS basic benefits
means any benefits payable under subchapter II, IV, or V of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Fund
means the Civil Service Retirement Fund.
§ 845.103
Prohibition against collection of debts.
(a) Debts may be collected from FERS basic benefits only to the extent expressly authorized by Federal statute.
(b) When collection of a debt from FERS basic benefits is authorized under paragraph (a) of this section, the collection will be made in accordance with this part.
§ 845.104
Status of debts.
A payment by OPM to a debtor because of an OPM error or the failure of the creditor agency to properly and/or timely submit a debt claim under subpart D of this part, does not erase the debt or affect the validity of the claim by the creditor agency.
§ 845.105
Termination and suspension of collection actions.
The termination or suspension of a collection action, other than waiver of an overpayment under subparts B and C of this part, are controlled exclusively by the Federal Claims Collection Standards, chapter II of title 4, Code of Federal Regulations.

# Subpart B—Collection of Overpayment Debts
§ 845.201
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes procedures to be followed by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), which are consistent with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) (Chapter II of title 4, Code of Federal Regulations), in the collection of debts owed to the Fund.
§ 845.202
Scope.
This subpart covers the collection of debts due the Fund, with the exception of the collection of court-imposed judgments, amounts referred to the Department of Justice because of fraud, and amounts collected from back pay awards in accordance with § 550.805(e)(2) of this chapter.
§ 845.203
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Additional charges
means interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs owed on a debt.
Annuitant
means a retired employee or Member of Congress, former spouse, spouse, widow(er), or child receiving recurring benefits under the provisions of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Compromise
is an adjustment of the total amount of the debt to be collected based upon the considerations established by the FCCS (4 CFR part 103).
Consumer reporting agency
has the same meaning provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3).
Debt
means a payment of benefits to an individual in the absence of entitlement or in excess of the amount to which an individual is properly entitled.
Delinquent
has the same meaning provided in 4 CFR 101.2(b).
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards (Chapter II of title 4, Code of Federal Regulations).
Offset
means to withhold the amount of a debt, or a portion of that amount, from one or more payments due the debtor. Offset also means the amount withheld in this manner.
Reconsideration
means the process of reexamining an individual's liability for a debt based on—
(a) Proper application of law and regulation; and
(b) Correctness of the mathematical computation.
Repayment schedule
means the amount of each payment and the number of payments to be made to liquidate the debt as determined by OPM.
Retirement fund
means the Civil Service Retirement Fund.
Voluntary repayment agreement
means an alternative to offset that is agreed to by OPM and includes a repayment schedule.
Waiver
is a decision not to recover a debt under authority of 5 U.S.C. 8470(b).
§ 845.204
Processing.
(a)
Notice.
Except as provided in § 845.205, OPM will, before starting collection, tell the debtor in writing—
(1) The reason for and the amount of the debt;
(2) The date on which the full payment is due;
(3) OPM's policy on interest, penalties, and administrative charges;
(4) That offset is available, the types of payment(s) to be offset, the repayment schedule, the right to request an adjustment in the repayment schedule and the right to request a voluntary repayment agreement in lieu of offset;
(5) The individual's right to inspect and/or receive a copy of the Government's records relating to the debt;
(6) The method and time period (30 calendar days) for requesting reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise and, in the case of offset, an adjustment to the repayment schedule;
(7) The standards used by OPM for determining entitlement to waiver and compromise;
(8) The right to a hearing by the Merit Systems Protection Board on a
waiver request (if OPM's waiver decision finds the individual liable) in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and
(9) The fact that a timely filing of a request for reconsideration, waiver and/or compromise, or a later timely appeal of a reconsideration or waiver denial to the Merit Systems Protection Board, will stop collection proceedings, unless (i) failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt; and (ii) the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of these procedures.
(b)
Requests for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise.
(1) If a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise is returned to OPM by mail, it must be postmarked within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice detailed in paragraph (a) of this section. If a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise is hand delivered, it must be received within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice detailed in paragraph (a) of this section. OPM may extend the 30-day time limit for filing when individuals can prove that they—
(i) Were not notified of the time limit and were not otherwise aware of it; or
(ii) Were prevented by circumstances beyond their control from making the request within the time limit.
(2) When a request for reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise covered by this paragraph is properly filed before the death of the debtor, it will be processed to completion unless the relief sought is nullified by the debtor's death.
(3) Individuals requesting reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position.
(4) An individual's request for waiver will be evaluated on the basis of the standards set forth in subpart C of this part. An individual's request for compromise will be evaluated on the basis of standards set forth in the FCCS (4 CFR part 103).
(c)
Reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise decisions.
(1) OPM's decision will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information.
(2) After consideration of all pertinent information, OPM will issue a written decision. The decision will state the extent of the individual's liability, and, for waiver and compromise requests, whether the debt will be waived or compromised. If the individual is determined to be liable for all or a portion of the debt, the decision will reaffirm or modify the conditions for the collection previously proposed under paragraph (a) of this section. The decision will state the individual's right to appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board as provided by § 1201.3 of this title, and, in the case of a denial of waiver or reconsideration request that a timely appeal will stop collection of the debt.
§ 845.205
Collection of debts.
(a)
Means of collection.
Collection of a debt may be made by means of offset under § 845.206, or under any statutory provision providing for offset of money due the debtor from the Federal Government, or by referral to the Justice Department for litigation, as provided in § 845.206. Referral may also be made to a collection agency under the provisions of the FCCS.
(b)
Additional charges.
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be assessed on the debt in accordance with standards established in the FCCS at 4 CFR 102.13. Additional charges will be waived when required by the FCCS. In addition, such charges may be waived when OPM determines—
(1) Collection would be against equity and good conscience under the standards prescribed in §§ 845.303 through 845.305; or
(2) Waiver would be in the best interest of the United States.
(c)
Collection in installments.
(1) Whenever feasible, debts will be collected in one lump sum.
(2) However, installments payments may be effected when—
(i) The debtor establishes that he or she is financially unable to pay in one lump sum; or
(ii)(A) The benefit payable is insufficient to make collection in one lump sum;
(B) The debtor fails to respond to a demand for full payment; and
(C) Offset is available.
(3) The amount of the installment payments will be set in accordance with the criteria in 4 CFR 102.11.
(d)
Commencement of collection.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, collection will begin after the time limits for requesting further rights stated in § 845.204(a)(6) expire or OPM has issued decisions on all timely requests for those rights and the Merit Systems Protection Board has acted on any timely appeal of a waiver denial, unless failure to make an offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt; and the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of the proceedings in § 845.204 or litigation. When offset begins without completion of the administrative review process, these procedures will be completed promptly, and amounts recovered by offset but later found not owed will be refunded promptly.
(2) The procedures identified in § 845.204 will not be applied when the debt is caused by a retroactive adjustment in the periodic rate of annuity or any deduction taken from annuity when the adjustment is a result of the annuitant's election of different entitlements under law, if the adjustment is made within 120 days of the effective date of the election; or interim estimated payments made before the formal determination of entitlement to annuity, if the amount is recouped from the total annuity payable on the first day of the month following the last advance payment or the date the formal determination is made, whichever is later.
§ 845.206
Collection by administrative offset.
(a)
Offset from retirement payments.
A debt may be collected in whole or in part from any lump-sum retirement payment or recurring annuity payments.
(b)
Offset from other payments
—(1)
Administrative offset.
(i) A debt may be offset from other payments due the debtor from other agencies in accordance with 4 CFR 102.3 except that offset from back pay awarded under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5596 (and 5 CFR 550.801
et seq.
) will be made in accordance with § 550.805(e)(2) of this chapter.
(ii) In determining whether to collect claims by means of administrative offset after the expiration of the 6-year limitation provided in 5 U.S.C. 2415, the Director or his or her designee will determine the cost effectiveness of leaving a claim unresolved for more than 6 years. This decision will be based on such factors as the amount of the debt, the cost of collection, and the likelihood of recovering the debt.
(2)
Salary offset.
When the debtor is an employee, or a member of the Armed Forces, OPM may effect collection action by offset of the debtor's pay in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR 550.1101
et seq.
Due process described in § 845.204 will apply. The questions of fact and liability, and entitlements to waiver or compromise determined through that process are deemed correct and will not be amended under salary offset procedures. When the debtor did not receive a hearing on the amount of the offset under § 845.204 and requests such a hearing, one will be conducted in accordance with subpart K of part 550 of this chapter.
§ 845.207
Use of consumer reporting agencies.
(a)
Notice.
If a debtor's response to the notice described in § 845.204(a) does not result in payment in full, payment by offset, or payment in accordance with a voluntary repayment agreement or other repayment schedule acceptable to OPM, and the debtor's rights under § 845.204 have been exhausted, OPM may report the debtor to a consumer reporting agency. In addition, a debtor's failure to make subsequent payments in accordance with a repayment schedule may result in a report to a consumer reporting agency. Before making a report to a consumer reporting agency, OPM will notify the debtor in writing that—
(1) The payment is overdue;
(2) OPM intends, after 60 days, to make a report as described in paragraph (b) of this section to a consumer reporting agency;
(3) The debtor's right to dispute the liability has been exhausted under § 845.204; and
(4) The debtor may suspend OPM action on referral by paying the debt in one lump sum or making payments current under a repayment schedule.
(b)
Report.
When a debtor's response to the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section fails to comply with paragraph (a)(4) of this section or the debtor does not respond, and 60 days have elapsed since the notice was mailed, OPM may report to a consumer reporting agency that an individual is responsible for an unpaid debt and provide the following information:
(1) The individual's name, address, taxpayer identification number, and any other information necessary to establish the identity of the individual;
(2) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and
(3) The fact that the debt arose in connection with the administration of FERS or CSRS.
(c)
Subsequent reports.
OPM will update its report to the consumer reporting agency whenever it has knowledge of events that substantially change the status or the amount of the liability.
§ 845.208
Referral to a collection agency.
(a) OPM retains the responsibility for resolving disputes, compromising claims, referring the debt for litigation, or suspending or terminating collection action.
(b) OPM may refer certain debts to commercial collection agencies under the following conditions:
(1) All processing required by § 845.204 has been completed before the debt is released; and
(2) A contract for collection services has been negotiated.
§ 845.209
Referral for litigation.
From time to time and in a manner consistent with the General Accounting Office's and the Justice Department's instructions, OPM will refer certain overpayments to the Justice Department for litigation. Referral for litigation will suspend processing under this subpart.

# Subpart C—Standards for Waiver of Overpayments
§ 845.301
Conditions for waiver.
Recovery of an overpayment from the Fund may be waived pursuant to section 8470(b), of title 5, United States Code, when (a) the annuitant is without fault and (b) recovery would be against equity and good conscience. When it has been determined that the recipient of an overpayment is ineligible for waiver, the individual is nevertheless entitled to an adjustment in the recovery schedule if he or she shows that it would cause him or her financial hardship to make payment at the rate scheduled.
§ 845.302
Fault.
A recipient of an overpayment is without fault if he or she performed no act of commission or omission that resulted in the overpayment. The fact that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) or another agency may have been at fault in initiating an overpayment will not necessarily relieve the individual from liability.
(a)
Considerations.
Pertinent considerations in finding fault are—
(1) Whether payment resulted from the individual's incorrect but not necessarily fraudulent statement, which he or she should have known to be incorrect;
(2) Whether payment resulted from the individual's failure to disclose material facts in his or her possession, which he or she should have known to be material; or
(3) Whether he or she accepted a payment that he or she knew or should have known to be erroneous.
(b)
Mitigation factors.
The individual's age, physical and mental condition or the nature of the information supplied to him or her by OPM or a Federal agency may mitigate against finding fault if one or more of these factors contributed to his or her submission of an incorrect statement, a statement that did not disclose material facts in his or her possession, or his or her acceptance of an erroneous overpayment.
§ 845.303
Equity and good conscience.
Recovery is against equity and good conscience when—
(a) It would cause financial hardship to the person from whom it is sought;
(b) The recipient of the overpayment can show (regardless of his or her financial circumstances) that due to the notice that such payment would be made or because of the incorrect payment he or she either has relinquished a valuable right or has changed positions for the worse; or
(c) Recovery would be unconscionable under the circumstances.
§ 845.304
Financial hardship.
Financial hardship may be deemed to exist in, but not limited to, those situations when the annuitant from whom collection is sought needs substantially all of his or her current income and liquid assets to meet current ordinary and necessary living expenses and liabilities.
(a)
Considerations.
Some pertinent considerations in determining whether recovery would cause financial hardship are as follows:
(1) The individual's financial ability to pay at the time collection is scheduled to be made.
(2) Income to other family member(s), if such member's ordinary and necessary living expenses are included in expenses reported by the annuitant.
(b)
Exemptions.
Assets exempt from execution under State law should not be considered in determining an individual's ability to repay the indebtedness. Rather primary emphasis will be placed upon the annuitant's liquid assets and current income in making such determinations.
§ 845.305
Ordinary and necessary living expenses.
An individual's ordinary and necessary living expenses include rent, mortgage payments, utilities, maintenance, transportation, food, clothing, insurance (life, health, and accident), taxes, installment payments, medical expenses, support expenses for which the annuitant is legally responsible, and other miscellaneous expenses that the individual can establish as being ordinary and necessary.
§ 845.306
Waiver precluded.
Waiver of an overpayment cannot be granted when—
(a) The overpayment was obtained by fraud; or
(b) The overpayment was made to an estate.
§ 845.307
Burdens of proof.
(a)
Burden of OPM.
The Associate Director must establish by the preponderance of the evidence that an overpayment occurred.
(b)
Burden of annuitant.
The recipient of an overpayment must establish by substantial evidence that he or she is eligible for waiver or an adjustment.

# Subpart D—Agency Requests to OPM for Recovery of a Debt From the Civil Service Retirement Fund
§ 845.401
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes the procedures to be followed by a Federal agency when it requests the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to recover a debt owed to the United States by administrative offset against money due and payable to the debtor from the Fund. This subpart also prescribes the procedures that OPM must follow to make these administrative offsets.
§ 845.402
Scope.
This subpart applies to agencies and debtors, as defined by § 845.403.
§ 845.403
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Act
means the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 as amended by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and implemented by 4 CFR 101.1
et seq.,
the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS).
Administrative offset
means withholding money payable from the Fund to satisfy a debt to the United States under 31 U.S.C. 3716.
Agency
means—
(a) An Executive agency as defined in § 105 of title 5, United States Code, including the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission;
(b) A military department, as defined in § 102 of title 5, United States Code;
(c) An agency or court in the judicial branch, including a court as defined in § 610 of title 28, United States Code, the
District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation;
(d) An agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives; and
(e) Other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government.
Annuitant
means an annuitant as defined in § 8401(2) of title 5, United States Code, or a survivor as defined in § 8401(28) of title 5, United States Code.
Annuity
means the monthly benefit of indefinite duration payable to an annuitant or survivor annuitant.
Compromise
has the same meaning as in 4 CFR part 103.
Consent
means the debtor has agreed in writing to administrative offset after receiving notice of all rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and this subpart.
Creditor agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed.
Debt
means an amount owed to the United States on account of loans insured or guaranteed by the United States, and other amounts due the United States from fees, duties, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, fines, penalties, damages, interest, taxes, forfeitures, etc.
Debt claim
means an agency request for recovery of a debt in a form approved by OPM.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt, including an employee, former employee, Member, former Member, or the survivor of one of these individuals.
Employee
has the same meaning as in section 8401(11) of title 5, United States Code, and includes reemployed annuitants and employees of the U.S. Postal Service.
Fraud claim
means any debt designated by the Attorney General (or designee) as involving an indication of fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any other party having an interest in the claim.
Individual Retirement Record
means the record of retirement contributions that must be maintained under § 841.504 of this chapter.
Lump-sum credit
has the same meaning as in section 8401(19) of title 5, United States Code.
Member
has the same meaning as in section 8401(20) of title 5, United States Code.
Net annuity
means annuity after excluding amounts required by law to be deducted.
Paying agency
means the agency that employs the debtor and authorizes the disbursement of his or her current pay account.
Refund
means the payment of a lump-sum credit to an individual who meets all requirements for payment and files application for it.
§ 845.404
Conditions for requesting an offset.
An agency may request that money payable from the Fund be offset to recover any valid debt due the United States when all of the following conditions are met:
(a) The debtor failed to pay all of the debt on demand, or the creditor agency has collected as much as possible from payments due the debtor from the paying agency; and
(b) The creditor agency sends a debt claim to OPM (under § 845.405(b) (1), (2), (3) or (4), as appropriate) after doing one of the following:
(1) Obtaining a court judgment for the amount of the debt;
(2) Following the procedures required by 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 4 CFR 102.4;
(3) Following the procedures required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and subpart K of part 550 of this chapter; or
(4) Following the procedures agreed upon by the creditor agency and OPM, if it is excepted by § 845.405(b)(4) from the completion of procedures prescribed by § 845.405(b)(3).
§ 845.405
Creditor agency processing for non-fraud claims.
(a)
Where to submit the debt claim, judgment or notice of debt
—(1)
Creditor agencies that are not the debtor's paying agency.
(i) If the creditor agency knows that the debtor is employed by the Federal Government, it should send the debt claim to the debtor's paying agency for collection.
(ii) If some of the debt is unpaid after the debtor separates from the paying agency, the creditor agency should send the debt claim to OPM as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Creditor agencies that are the debtor's paying agency.
Ordinarily, debts owed the paying agency should be offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 from any final payments (salary, accrued annual leave, etc.) due the debtor. If a balance is due after offsetting the final payments or the debt is discovered after the debtor has been paid, the paying agency may send the debt claim to OPM as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Procedures for submitting debt claim, judgment or notice of debt to OPM
—(1)
Debt claims for which the agency has a court judgment.
If the creditor agency has a court judgment against the debtor specifying the amount of the debt to be recovered, the agency should send the debt claim and two certified copies of the judgment to OPM.
(2)
Debt claims previously processed under 5 U.S.C. 5514.
If the creditor agency previously processed the debt claim under 5 U.S.C. 5514, it should—
(i) Notify the debtor that the claim is being sent to OPM to complete collection from the Fund; and
(ii) Send the debt claim to OPM with two copies of the paying agency's certification of the amount collected and one copy of the notice to the debtor that the claim was sent to OPM.
(3)
Debt claims not processed under 5 U.S.C. 5514, reduced to court judgment, or excepted by paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(i) If the debt claim was not processed under 5 U.S.C. 5514, reduced to court judgment or excepted by paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the creditor agency must—
(A) Comply with the procedures required by 4 CFR 102.4 by issuing written notice to the debtor of the nature and amount of the debt, the agency's intention to collect by offset, the opportunity to obtain review within the agency of the determination of indebtedness, and the opportunity to enter into a written agreement with the agency to repay the debt; and
(B) Complete the appropriate debt claim.
(ii) If the debtor does not respond to the creditor agency's notice within the allotted time and there is no reason to believe that he or she did not receive the notice, the creditor agency may submit the debt claim to OPM after certifying that notice was issued and the debtor failed to reply.
(iii) If the debtor responds to the notice by requesting a review (or hearing if one is available), the review (or hearing) must be completed before the creditor agency submits the debt claim.
(iv) If the debtor receives the notice and responds by consenting to the collection, the creditor agency must send (to OPM) a copy of the debtor's consent along with the debt claim.
(4)
Debt claims excepted from procedures described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
Creditor agencies must follow specific procedures approved by OPM, rather than those described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, for the collection of—
(i) Debts due because of the individual's failure to pay health benefits premiums while he or she was in nonpay status or while his or her salary was not sufficient to cover the cost of premiums;
(ii) Unpaid Federal taxes to be collected by Internal Revenue Service levy;
(iii) Premiums due because of the annuitant's election of Part B, Medicare coverage (retroactive collection limited to 6 months of premiums); or
(iv) Overpaid military retired pay an annuitant elects in writing to have withheld from his or her annuity.
(5)
General certification requirements for debt claims.
Creditor agencies submitting debt claims must certify—
(i) That the debt is owed to the United States;
(ii) The amount and reason for the debt and whether additional interest accrues;
(iii) The date the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued;
(iv) That the agency has complied with the applicable statutes, regulations, and OPM procedures;
(v) That if a competent administrative or judicial authority issues an order directing OPM to pay a debtor an amount previously paid to the agency (regardless of the reasons behind the order), the agency will reimburse OPM or pay the debtor directly within 15 days of the date of the order.

# Note:
OPM may, at its discretion, decline to collect other debt claims sent by an agency that does not abide by this certification.
(vi) If the collection will be in installments, the amount or percentage of net annuity in each installment; and
(vii) If the debtor does not (in writing) consent to the offset, or does not (in writing) acknowledge receipt of the required notices and procedures, or the creditor agency does not document a judgment offset or a previous salary offset, identify the action(s) taken to comply with 4 CFR 102.3, including any required hearing or review, and give the date(s) the action(s) was taken.
(6)
Notice of debt.
When a creditor agency cannot send a complete debt claim, it should notify OPM of the existence of the debt so that the lump-sum will not be paid before the debt claim arrives.
(i) The notice to OPM must include a statement that the debt is owed to the United States, the date the debt first accrued, and the basis for and amount of the debt, if known. If the amount of the debt is not known, the agency must establish the amount and notify OPM in writing as soon as possible after submitting the notice.
(ii) The creditor agency may either notify OPM by making a notation in column 8 [Remarks] under “Fiscal Record” on the Individual Retirement Record, if the Individual Retirement Record is in its possession, or if not, by submitting a separate document identifying the debtor by name, giving his or her date of birth, social security number, and date of separation, if known.
(c)
Time limits for sending records and debt claims to OPM
—(1)
Time limits for submitting debt claims.
Unless there is an application for refund pending, there is no specific time for submitting a debt claim or notice of debt to OPM. Generally, however, agencies must file a debt claim before the statute of limitations expires (4 CFR 102.4(c)) or before a refund is paid. Time limits are imposed (see § 845.406(a)) when the debtor is eligible for a refund and OPM receives his or her application requesting payment. In this situation, creditor agencies must file a complete debt claim within 120 days (or 180 days if the agency requests an extension of time before the refund is paid) of the date OPM requests a complete debt claim.
(2)
Time limit for submitting retirement records to OPM.
A paying agency must send the Individual Retirement Record to OPM no later than 60 days after the separation, termination, or entrance on duty in a position in which the employee is not covered by FERS.
§ 845.406
OPM processing for non-fraud claims.
(a)
Refunds—incomplete debt claims.
(1) If a creditor agency sends OPM a notice of debt claim against a refund OPM is processing for payment, OPM will withhold the amount of the debt but will not make any payment to the creditor agency. OPM will notify the creditor agency that the procedures in this subpart and 4 CFR 102.4 must be completed; and a debt claim must be completed and returned to OPM within 120 days of the date of OPM's notice to the creditor agency. Upon request, OPM will grant the creditor agency one extension of up to 60 days if the request for extension is received before the lump-sum payment has been made. The extension will commence on the day after the 120-day period expires so that the total time OPM holds payment of the refund will not exceed 180 days.
(2) During the period allotted the creditor agency for sending OPM a complete debt claim, OPM will handle the debtor's application for refund under section 8424 of title 5, United States Code, in one of two ways:
(i) If the amount of the debt is known, OPM will notify the debtor of the debt claim against his or her lump-sum credit, withhold the amount of the debt, and pay the balance to the debtor, if any.
(ii) If the amount of the debt is not known, OPM will not pay any amount to the debtor until the creditor agency certifies the amount of the debt, submits a complete debt claim, or the time limit for submission of the debt claim expires, whichever comes first.
(b)
Refunds—complete debt claims
—(1)
OPM receives an application from the debtor prior to or at the same time as the agency's debt claim.
(i) If a refund has been paid, OPM will notify the creditor agency there are no funds available for offset. Except in the case of debts due because of the employee's failure to pay health benefits premiums while he
or she is in nonpay status or while his or her salary was not sufficient to cover the cost of premiums, creditor agencies should refer to the instructions in the FCCS for other measures to recover the outstanding debt; however, OPM will retain the debt claim on file in the event the debtor is once again employed in a position subject to retirement deductions.
(ii) If a refund is payable and the creditor agency submits a complete debt claim in accordance with § 845.405(b) (1), (2), (3), or (4), the debt will be collected from the refund and any balance paid to the debtor. OPM will send the debtor a copy of the debt claim, judgment, consent, or other document, and notify him or her that the creditor agency was paid.
(2)
If OPM has not received an application from the debtor when the agency's debt claim is received.
If a debtor has not filed application for a refund, OPM will retain the debt claim for future recovery. OPM will make the collection whenever an application is received, provided the creditor agency initiated the administrative offset before the statute of limitations expired. (See 4 CFR 102.3(b)(3) and 102.4(c).) OPM will notify the creditor agency that it does not have an application from the debtor so that the agency may take other action to recover the debt.

# Note:
If the recovery action is successful, the creditor agency must notify OPM so it can void the debt claim.
(3)
Future recovery.
(i) If OPM receives an application for refund within 1 year of the date the agency's debt claim was received and the creditor agency does not indicate that interest is accruing on the debt, the debt will be processed as stated in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) If OPM receives an application for refund within 1 year of the date the agency's debt claim was received and the creditor agency indicates that interest accrues on the debt, when necessary, OPM will contact the creditor agency to confirm that the debt is outstanding and request submission in writing, of the total additional accrued interest. OPM will not make interest computations for creditor agencies.
(iii) When OPM receives an application for refund more than 1 year after the creditor agency's debt claim was received, whether interest accrues or not, OPM will contact the creditor agency to see if the debt is still outstanding and, when necessary, request an update of the interest charges. If the debt is still due, the creditor agency must give the debtor an opportunity to establish that his or her changed financial circumstances, if any, would make the offset unjust. (See 4 CFR 102.4(c).) If the creditor agency determines that offset as requested in the debt claim would be unjust because of the debtor's changed financial circumstances, the agency should permit the debtor to offer a satisfactory repayment plan in lieu of offset. If the agency decides to pursue the offset, it must submit to OPM the requested information and any new instructions within 60 days of the date of OPM's request or the claim may be voided and the balance paid to the individual.
(c)
Annuities—incomplete debt claims.
(1) If a creditor agency sends OPM notice of a debt or an incomplete debt claim against a debtor who is receiving an annuity, OPM will not offset the annuity. OPM will notify the creditor agency that—
(i) The procedures in this subpart and 4 CFR 102.4 must be completed; and
(ii) A debt claim must be completed and sent to OPM.
(2) No time limit will be given for the submission of a debt claim against an annuity; however, a debt claim must be received within 10 years of the date the Government's right to collect first accrued (4 CFR 102.3(b)(3)).
(d)
Annuities—complete debt claims
—(1)
General
—(i)
Notice.
When OPM receives a complete debt claim and an application for annuity, OPM will offset the annuity, pay the creditor agency, and mail the debtor a copy of the debt claim along with notice of the payment to the creditor agency.
(ii)
Beginning deductions.
If OPM already established the debtor's annuity payment, deductions will begin with the next available annuity payment. If OPM is in the process of establishing the annuity payments, deductions will not be taken from advance annuity payments, but will begin with the annuity payable on the first day of the
month following the last advance payment.
(iii)
Updating accrued interest.
Once OPM has completed a collection, if there are additional accrued interest charges, the creditor agency must contact OPM regarding any additional amount due within 90 days of the date of the final payment.
(2)
Claims held for future recovery.
(i) If OPM receives an application for annuity within 1 year of the date the agency's debt claim was received, the debt will be processed as stated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii) If OPM receives an application for annuity more than 1 year after the agency's debt claim was submitted, OPM will contact the creditor agency to see if the debt is still outstanding. If the debt is still due, the creditor agency should permit the debtor to offer a satisfactory repayment plan in lieu of offset if the debtor establishes that his or her changed financial circumstances would make the offset unjust. (See 4 CFR 102.4(c).) If the agency decides to pursue the offset, it must submit the requested information and any new instructions about the collection to OPM.
(e)
Limitations on OPM review.
In no case will OPM review—
(1) The merits of a creditor agency's decision regarding reconsideration, compromise, or waiver; or
(2) The creditor agency's decision that a hearing was not required in any particular proceeding.
§ 845.407
Installment withholdings.
(a) When possible, OPM will collect a creditor agency's full claim in one payment from the debtor's refund or annuity.
(b) If collection must be made from an annuity and the debt is large, the creditor must generally accept payment in installments. The responsibility for establishing and notifying the debtor of the amount of the installments belongs to the creditor agency (see § 845.405(b)(5)). However, OPM will not make an installment deduction for more than 50 percent of net annuity, unless a higher percentage is needed to satisfy a judgment against a debtor within 3 years or the annuitant has consented to the higher amount in writing. All correspondence concerning installment deductions received by OPM will be referred to the creditor agency for consideration.
§ 845.408
Special processing for fraud claims.
When an agency sends a claim indicating fraud, presentation of a false claim, misrepresentation by the debtor or any other party interested in the claim, or any claim based in whole or part on conduct violating the antitrust laws, to the Department of Justice (Justice) for possible treatment as a fraud claim (4 CFR 101.3), the following special procedures apply.
(a)
Agency processing.
If the debtor is separated or separates while Justice is reviewing the claim, the paying agency must send the Individual Retirement Record to OPM, as required by § 845.405(c)(2). The agency where the claim arose must send OPM notice that a claim is pending with Justice. (See § 845.405(b)(6) for instructions on giving OPM a notice of debt.)
(b)
Department of Justice processing.
(1) The Attorney General or a designee will decide whether a debt claim sent in by an agency will be reserved for collection by Justice as a fraud claim. Upon receiving a possible fraud claim to be collected by offset from the Fund, the Attorney General or a designee must notify OPM. The notice to OPM must contain the following:
(i) The name, date of birth, and social security number of the debtor;
(ii) The amount of the possible fraud claim, if known;
(iii) The basis of the possible fraud claim; and
(iv) A statement that the claim is being considered as a possible fraud claim, the collection of which is reserved to Justice.
(2) When there is a pending refund application, the Attorney General or designee must file a complaint seeking a judgment on the claim and send a copy of the complaint to OPM; or as provided in 4 CFR 101.3, refer the claim to the agency where the claim arose and submit a copy of the referral to OPM within 180 days of the date of either notice from the agency that a claim is pending with Justice (paragraph (a) of this section) or notice from Justice
that it has received a possible fraud claim (paragraph (b)(1) of this section) whichever is earlier. When the claim is referred to the agency where it arose, the agency must begin administrative collection action under 4 CFR 102.4 and send a complete debt claim to OPM as required in § 845.405.
(c)
OPM processing against refunds.
(1) Upon receipt of a notice under paragraph (a) or (b)(1) of this section, whichever is earlier, OPM will withhold the amount of the debt claim, if known; notify the debtor that the amount of the debt will be withheld from the refund for at least 180 days from the date of the notice that initiated OPM processing; and pay the balance to the debtor. If the amount of the debt claim is not known, OPM will notify the debtor that a debt claim may be offset against his or her refund and that OPM will not pay any amount until either the amount of the debt claim is established, or the time limit for filing a complaint in court or submitting the debt claim expires, whichever comes first.
(2) If the Attorney General files a complaint and notifies OPM within the applicable 180-day period, OPM will continue to withhold payment of the lump-sum credit until there is a final judgment.
(3) If the Attorney General refers the claim to the agency where the claim arose (creditor agency) and notifies OPM within the applicable 180-day period, OPM will notify the creditor agency that (i) the procedures in this subpart and 4 CFR 102.4 must be completed; and (ii) a debt claim must be sent to OPM within 120 days of the date of OPM's notice to the creditor agency. At the request of the creditor agency, one extension of time of not more than 60 days will be granted, as provided by § 845.406(a).
(4) If OPM is not notified that a complaint has been filed or that the claim has been referred to the creditor agency within the applicable 180-day period, OPM will pay the balance of the refund to the debtor.
(d)
OPM processing against annuities.
If the debtor has filed an annuity claim, OPM will not take action against the annuity. OPM will continue to pay the annuity unless and until there is a final judgment for the United States or submission of a complete debt claim.
(e)
OPM collection and payment of the debt.
(1) If the United States obtains a judgment against the debtor for the amount of the debt or the creditor agency submits a complete debt claim, OPM will collect and pay the debt to the creditor agency as provided in §§ 845.406 and 845.407.
(2) If the suit or the administrative proceeding results in a judgment for the debtor without establishing a debt to the United States, OPM will pay the balance of the refund to the debtor upon receipt of a certified copy of the judgment or administrative decision.
Pt. 846

# PART 846—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM—ELECTIONS OF COVERAGE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
846.101
Purpose.
846.102
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Elections
846.201
Elections to become subject to FERS.
846.202
Condition for making an election.
846.203
Agency responsibilities.
846.204
Belated elections and correction of administrative errors.
846.205
Reconsideration and appeal rights.

# Subpart C—Effect of an Election To Become Subject to FERS
846.301
General rules.
846.302
Crediting civilian service.
846.303
Crediting military service.
846.304
Computing FERS annuities for persons with CSRS service.
846.305
General inapplicability of CSRS provisions.

# Subpart D—Refunds of CSRS Contributions
846.401
Refunds of excess contributions.
846.402
Refunds of all CSRS contributions.

# Subpart E—Cancellation of Designations of Beneficiary
846.501
Cancellation upon transfer to FERS.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—1998 Open Enrollment Elections
846.701
Purpose and scope.
846.702
Definitions.
846.703
Effective date of FERS coverage.
846.704
Irrevocability of an election of FERS coverage.

# Who May Elect
846.711
Eligibility to elect FERS coverage during the 1998 open enrollment period.
846.712
Statutory exclusions.
846.713
Former spouse consent requirement.

# Election Procedures
846.721
Electing FERS coverage.
846.722
Former spouse's consent to an election of FERS coverage.
846.723
Agency responsibilities.
846.724
Belated elections and correction of administrative errors.
846.725
Appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board.
846.726
Delegation of authority to act as OPM's agent for receipt of employee communications relating to elections.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8347(a) and 8461(g) and Title III of Pub. L. 99-335, 100 Stat. 517; Sec. 846.201(b) also issued under 5 U.S.C. 7701(b)(2) and section 153 of Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321; Sec. 846.201(d) also issued under section 11246(b) of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251; Sec. 846.201(d) also issued under section 7(e) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419; Sec. 846.202 also issued under section 301(d)(3) of Pub. L. 99-335, 100 Stat. 517; Sec. 846.204(b) also issued under Title II, Pub. L. 106-265, 114 Stat. 778; Sec. 846.726 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 1104; subpart G also issued under section 642 of Pub. L. 105-61, 111 Stat. 1272.

# Source:
52 FR 19235, May 21, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 846.101
Purpose.
This part identifies the employees who may transfer to the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS), gives the conditions under which they may transfer, and sets forth the method of computing the annuities of employees who transfer to FERS.
§ 846.102
Definitions.
In this part—
CSRS
means subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
CSRS/SS service
means service subject to both CSRS deductions (or deductions under another retirement system for Federal employees if such service is creditable under CSRS) and social security deductions as a result of the Social Security Amendments of 1983. For this purpose, the service of an individual is considered CSRS/SS service if the service would have been covered under CSRS except for an election under section 208(a)(1)(A) of the Federal Employees Retirement Contribution Temporary Adjustment Act of 1983 to have no CSRS coverage.
Employee
means an employee as defined by § 842.102 of this chapter.
Employing office
means the office of an agency to which jurisdiction and responsibility for retirement matters for an employee have been delegated.
FERS
means the Federal Employees Retirement System as described in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Former spouse
means a former spouse as defined in § 838.103 or § 838.1003 of this chapter.
Member
means a Member of Congress as defined in section 2106 of title 5, United States Code.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
Qualifying court order
means a court order acceptable for processing as defined in § 838.103 of this chapter or a qualifying court order as defined in § 838.1003 of this chapter.
Social security
means coverage under the Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance programs of the Social Security Act.
[52 FR 19235, May 21, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 33599, July 29, 1992]

# Subpart B—Elections
§ 846.201
Elections to become subject to FERS.
(a)
Employees and Members subject to CSRS on June 30, 1987.
An individual who, on June 30, 1987, is employed in the Federal service or is a Member and who is covered by CSRS may elect to become subject to FERS. An election under this paragraph may not be made before July 1, 1987, or after December 31, 1987.
(b)(1)
Separated employees who are reemployed.
A former employee who, after June 30, 1987, becomes reemployed and subject to CSRS may elect, during the
6-month period beginning on the date he or she becomes subject to CSRS, to become subject to FERS, except that an employee serving under an interim appointment under the authority of § 772.102 of this chapter is not eligible to elect to become subject to FERS.
(2)
Separated employees who are employed with the District of Columbia Financial Management and Assistance Authority (Authority).
A former employee who becomes employed with the Authority and subject to CSRS may elect, during the 6-month period beginning on the date he or she becomes subject to CSRS, to become subject to FERS, except that an employee serving under an interim appointment under the authority of § 772.102 of this chapter is not eligible to elect to become subject to FERS.
(c)
Employees and Members not subject to CSRS.
(1) An employee or Member who is excluded from FERS coverage on January 1, 1987, by § 842.104 (d) or (f) of this chapter and who, on December 31, 1986, is not subject to CSRS may elect to become subject to FERS. An election under this paragraph (c)(1) may not be made before July 1, 1987, or after December 31, 1987.
(2) An employee who, on June 30, 1987, is not covered by CSRS, but later becomes so covered, may elect to become subject to FERS. An election under this paragraph (c)(2) must be made during the 6-month period beginning on the date he or she becomes subject to CSRS.
(3) An employee who would be subject to CSRS except for the exclusions in § 831.201 of this chapter, but is not excluded from FERS by 5 U.S.C. 8401 nor by § 842.105 of this chapter, is deemed eligible to make an election of FERS coverage under this section. An election under this paragraph (c)(3) must be made during the period beginning July 1, 1987, and ending December 31, 1987, or, if later, during the 6-month period beginning on the date the employment described in this paragraph (c)(3) begins.
(d)
Exceptions.
(1) An individual who is an employee of the government of the District of Columbia may not elect to become subject to FERS except an individual so employed who is covered by CSRS and eligible for FERS coverage by operation of section 11246 of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, or section 7(e) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419.
(2) A Member who has irrevocably elected, by written notice to the official by whom the Member is paid, not to participate in FERS may not elect to become subject to FERS during the same continuous period of service.
(3) An employee or reemployed annuitant whose appointment is excluded from FERS coverage by law or regulation may not become subject to FERS by reason of an election under this section except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section or as otherwise provided by law.
(4) An election under this section may not be made by an individual who is ineligible for social security coverage.
(e)
Effective date.
An election made under this section is effective with the first pay period beginning after the date the election is properly filed with the employing office.
(f)
Irrevocability.
An election made under this section is irrevocable.
[52 FR 19235, May 21, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 3714, Jan. 31, 1992; 61 FR 58459, Nov. 15, 1996; 62 FR 50997, Sept. 30, 1997; 64 FR 15289, Mar. 31, 1999]
§ 846.202
Condition for making an election.
(a) An election under § 846.102 of this part may not become effective unless the election is made with the written consent of any former spouse(s) entitled to benefits under subpart F of part 831 of this chapter or part 838 of this chapter. As provided in section 301(d)(2)(A) of the FERS Act of 1986, this section applies only if OPM has been duly notified concerning any qualifying court order and has received the documentation required in § 838.211, § 838.721, or § 838.1005 of this chapter. This section does not apply with respect to a former spouse who has ceased to be so entitled because of remarrying before age 55.
(b) OPM may waive the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section upon a showing that the former spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined. A request for waiver on this basis must be accompanied by—
(1) A judicial or administrative determination that the former spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined; or
(2)(i) Affidavits by the employee or Member and two other persons, at least one of whom is not related to the employee or Member, attesting to the inability to locate the former spouse and stating the efforts made to locate the spouse; and
(ii) Documentary corroboration such as newspaper reports about the former spouse's disappearance.
(c) OPM may waive the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section based on exceptional circumstances if the employee or Member presents a judicial determination regarding the former spouse that would warrant waiver of the consent requirement based on exceptional circumstances.
(d)(1) OPM shall, upon application of an individual, grant an extension for such individual to make an election under § 846.201 of this part, if the individual—
(i) Files an application for the extension with OPM before the end of the period during which the individual would otherwise be eligible to make the election; and
(ii) Demonstrates to OPM's satisfaction that the extension is needed to secure the modification of a decree of divorce or annulment (or court ordered or court-approved property settlement incident to any such decree) on file at OPM in order to satisfy the consent requirement under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The application for extension is deemed to be filed with OPM on the date it is received in the employing office.
(3) An extension granted under this paragraph expires 6 months after the date it was granted. OPM may grant one further extension upon application by the individual seeking to make an election of FERS coverage.
(e) An electing individual who has a former spouse who may be entitled to benefits as described in paragraph (a) of this section must submit with the election either—
(1) The consent of the former spouse in a form prescribed by OPM,
(2) A request for an extension as described in paragraph (f) of this section,
(3) A request for a waiver of the consent requirement and the documentation to support the request as described in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, or
(4) A request for a determination as to whether a qualifying court order as described in paragraph (a) of this section is on file with OPM.
(f) The request for waiver or extension described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section must be in a form prescribed by OPM. The employing office must forward the request to OPM promptly.
(g) If OPM does not have a copy of a qualifying court order in its possession, OPM's notice to the agency that it has no qualifying court order is deemed to complete the individual's election of FERS, which becomes effective with the first pay period after the employing office receives OPM's notification.
(h) If OPM has a copy of a qualifying court order, OPM will notify both the individual and the employing agency of its determination regarding a request for extension.
(i) If OPM has a copy of a qualifying court order in its possession and grants a waiver of the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, OPM will notify both the individual and the employing office of its decision. OPM's notice to the employing office is deemed to complete the individual's election, which becomes effective with the first pay period after the employing office receives OPM's notice that the waiver is granted.
[52 FR 19235, May 21, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 33599, July 29, 1992]
§ 846.203
Agency responsibilities.
(a) Employing offices must distribute the election forms provided by OPM to each eligible individual, including all individuals in a nonduty status.
(b) An employing office must obtain documentation of the individual's receipt of the election form specified in paragraph (a) of this section and retain the documentation permanently in the individual's official personnel folder (or the equivalent). Acceptable documentation includes—
(1) A statement of receipt signed by the individual, or
(2) A signed postal return receipt showing that the election form was received at the individual's address.
§ 846.204
Belated elections and correction of administrative errors.
(a)
Belated elections.
On determination by an employing office that the FERS transfer handbook issued by OPM was not available to an individual in a timely manner or an individual was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to elect FERS coverage within the prescribed time limit, the employing office may, within 6 months after the expiration of the individual's opportunity to elect FERS coverage under § 846.201, accept the individual's election of FERS coverage.
(b)(1)
Correction of administrative errors related to election.
During the 6-month period after the expiration of an individual's opportunity to elect FERS coverage under § 846.201, the employing office may make prospective corrections of administrative errors regarding an individual's opportunity to elect FERS coverage, including failure to provide the election form specified in § 846.203(a) to an individual.
(2)(i)
Erroneous FERS coverage for a period of less than 3 years of service.
For an employee, separated employee, or retiree whose employing agency erroneously determined that the individual was covered by FERS during the period under § 846.201 when the individual was eligible to elect FERS, and the employing agency should have placed the individual in CSRS, CSRS Offset, or Social Security-Only, under conditions that would have included an opportunity to elect FERS coverage, and the employee, separated employee, or retiree remained in FERS for less than 3 years of service, the employee, separated employee, or retiree is deemed to have elected FERS coverage and the individual will remain covered by FERS, unless the individual declines under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to be covered by FERS.
(ii)(A) The employing agency must provide written notice to each individual who is deemed to have elected FERS under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section that the individual may, within 60 days after receiving the notice, decline to be deemed to have transferred to FERS.
(B) If the individual dies during the election period established by paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) (A) and (C) of this section, the right of election under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section may be exercised by any person who would be entitled to receive a current spouse survivor annuity or a former spouse survivor annuity under CSRS (or CSRS Offset), if any, if the error had not occurred (the election by any one such current or former spouse not to have the election of FERS coverage deemed is controlling); otherwise, by the individual or individuals entitled to receive the lump-sum credit under CSRS (or CSRS Offset) if the error had not occurred (the election by any individual entitled to a share of the lump-sum credit not to have the election of FERS coverage deemed is controlling). The time limit for making an election under this paragraph is 60 days after the date of the agency's notice to the individual (survivor) of the election right.
(C) The agency may waive the 60-day time limit under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section if the individual (if living, otherwise the appropriate survivor) exercised due diligence in making the election but was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the election within the time limit. An agency decision not to waive the time limit under this paragraph must include notice to the individual of the individual's right to request OPM to reconsider the denial of the waiver of the time limit. OPM's reconsideration decision on denial of a waiver of the time limit will notify the individual of the right to appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board under chapter II of this title.
(iii) The employing agency must document the individual's records to reflect his or her decision concerning retirement coverage.
(c)
OPM's reconsideration.
An agency decision concerning an individual's opportunity to elect FERS coverage or the effective date of an election of FERS coverage is subject to reconsideration by OPM under § 846.205.
(d)
Correction of other administrative errors.
Failure to begin employee deductions and Government contributions on the effective date of coverage must be corrected in accordance with § 841.505 of this chapter.
(e)
Errors lasting for at least 3 years of service.
For an employee, separated employee, or retiree whose employing agency erroneously determined that the individual was covered by FERS during the period under § 846.201 of this chapter when the individual was eligible to elect FERS and the individual remained in FERS for at least 3 years of service, the error is corrected in accordance with part 839 of this chapter.
[52 FR 19235, May 21, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 47822, Sept. 13, 1993; 66 FR 15618, Mar. 19, 2001]
§ 846.205
Reconsideration and appeal rights.
(a)
Who may file.
An individual may request OPM to reconsider a decision of an employing office affecting his or her election of coverage under FERS. A request for reconsideration of a decision by OPM regarding extension of the time limit or a waiver under § 846.202 or refunds under § 846.401 must be made in accordance with § 841.305 of this chapter.
(b)
Reconsideration.
A request for reconsideration of an agency decision must be filed within the time limit given in paragraph (c) of this section. A request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth, and the reason for the request.
(c)
Time limit.
A request for reconsideration of an agency decision must be filed within 30 calendar days from the date of the agency's decision stating the right to reconsideration. OPM may extend the time limit on filing when a person shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.
(d)
OPM's decision.
After reconsideration, OPM issues its final decision in writing, setting forth its findings and conclusions.
(e)
Appeals to MSPB.
A person whose rights or interests under this part are affected by OPM's decision under paragraph (d) of this section may request the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) to review such decision in accord with procedures prescribed by MSPB.

# Subpart C—Effect of an Election To Become Subject to FERS
§ 846.301
General rules.
(a) An individual who becomes covered by FERS as a result of an election under § 846.201 is subject to the provisions of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code and parts 841 through 845 of this chapter, except as provided in this part.
(b) Civilian service performed before the effective date of the election under § 846.201 is not creditable under FERS except as provided in this part.
§ 846.302
Crediting civilian service.
(a) Civilian service performed before the effective date of FERS coverage which is CSRS/SS service is creditable under FERS if—
(1) For service performed before January 1, 1987, 1.3 percent of basic pay was withheld as CSRS deductions (or if not withheld or if withheld and later refunded, 1.3 percent of basic pay for the period is deposited with interest computed under § 831.105(e) of this chapter); and
(2) For service performed after December 31, 1986, and before the effective date of the election, the employee contributes an amount equal to the percentage of basic pay for such service required to be withheld under part 841, subpart E of this chapter, whether by withholdings from pay or by later deposit (if not withheld or withheld and later refunded) with interest computed under § 831.105(e) of this chapter.
(b) Civilian service performed before the effective date of the FERS coverage which is not CSRS/SS service is creditable under FERS (subject to the deposit requirements of part 842, subpart C of this chapter) if—
(1) The service would be creditable under CSRS except for § 846.306 (determined without regard to whether the service was performed before, on, or
after January 1, 1989, and without regard to the provisions of part 842, subpart C of this chapter requiring that deposit be made for nondeduction or refunded service to be credited); and
(2) The service, in the aggregate, is equal to less than 5 years.
(c) Civilian service performed before the effective date of FERS coverage which is not CSRS/SS service is creditable under FERS only for the purposes specified in paragraph (d) of this section if—
(1) The service would be creditable under CSRS except for § 846.306 (determined without regard to whether the service was performed before, on, or after January 1, 1989, and without regard to the provisions of part 842, subpart C of this chapter, requiring that deposit be made for nondeduction or refunded service to be credited); and
(2) The service, in the aggregate, is equal to 5 years or more.
(d) The service described in paragraph (c) of this section is creditable under FERS for the following purposes:
(1) The 5 years of civilian service required to be eligible for a basic annuity under FERS as set forth in § 842.203 of this chapter.
(2) The minimum period of service for entitlement to—
(i) An immediate voluntary annuity under FERS as set forth in § 842.204 of this chapter;
(ii) An early retirement under FERS as set forth in § 842.205 of this chapter;
(iii) An involuntary retirement under FERS as set forth in § 842.206 of this chapter;
(iv) A Member retirement under FERS as set forth in § 842.209 of this chapter;
(v) A military reserve technician retirement under FERS as set forth in § 842.210 of this chapter;
(vi) A Senior Executive Service, Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service, or Senior Cryptological Executive Service retirement under FERS as set forth under § 842.211 of this chapter;
(vii) A deferred annuity under FERS as set forth in § 842.212 of this chapter;
(viii) A survivor annuity under FERS based on the death in service of an employee with at least 10 years of service as set forth in § 843.310 of this chapter, but only if the survivor is entitled to the basic employee death benefit described in § 843.309 of this chapter;
(ix) A disability retirement under FERS as set forth in subchapter V of chapter 84 of title 5 United States Code;
(x) A firefighter or law enforcement annuity under FERS as set forth in § 842.208 of this chapter, but only to the extent that the service was as a law enforcement officer or firefighter as described in § 842.809(b) of this chapter;
(xi) An air traffic controller annuity under FERS as set forth in § 842.207 of this chapter, but only to the extent that the service was as an air traffic controller as described in § 842.809(a) of this chapter;
(3) The computation of benefits under § 846.304(b); and
(4) The computation of average salary under § 846.304(d).
§ 846.303
Crediting military service.
(a) Military service performed before the effective date of the election under § 846.201 creditable as provided under FERS, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Military service described in paragraph (a) of this section which would be creditable under CSRS except for the provisions of § 846.306 and performed by an individual who is subject to an annuity computation under § 846.304(b) is creditable for—
(1) The minimum period for entitlement to an annuity under FERS based on—
(i) The immediate voluntary retirement provisions under § 842.204 of this chapter;
(ii) The early retirement provisions under § 842.205 of this chapter;
(iii) The involuntary retirement provisions under § 842.206 of this chapter;
(iv) The Member retirement provisions under § 842.209 of this chapter;
(v) The military reserve technician retirement provisions under § 842.210 of this chapter;
(vi) The Senior Executive Service, Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service, or the Senior Cryptological Executive Service retirement provisions under § 842.211 of this chapter; or
(vii) The deferred retirement provisions under § 842.212 of this chapter.
(2) Computation of benefits under § 846.304(b).
(c) If the effective date of the election of FERS by an individual who is subject to annuity computation under § 846.304(b) occurs when the individual is in non-pay status and is performing active military service, benefits for the military service performed before the effective date of the election are computed under CSRS, and benefits for the military service performed after the effective date are computed under FERS. The period of military service is considered to be two separate full periods of service, one ending the day before the effective date of FERS and one beginning on the effective date of FERS. The deposit for the period of service before the effective date of FERS coverage is computed under CSRS provisions set forth in part 831, subpart U of this chapter. The deposit for the period of service beginning on the effective date of FERS coverage is computed under FERS provisions set forth in part 842, subpart C of this chapter.
§ 846.304
Computing FERS annuities for persons with CSRS service.
(a)(1) The basic annuity of an employee who elected FERS coverage is an amount equal to the sum of the accrued benefits under CSRS as determined under paragraph (b) of this section and the accrued benefits under FERS as determined under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) The computation method described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is used in computing basic annuities under part 842, subpart D of this chapter, survivor annuities under part 843, subpart C of this chapter, and the basic annuities for disability retirement under subchapter V of chapter 84 of title 5 United States Code.
(3) An annuity computed under this paragraph is deemed to be the individual's annuity under FERS.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section and § 846.305, accrued benefits for civilian service as described in § 846.302(c), and military service as described in § 846.303(b) are computed under CSRS provisions.
(2) Reductions to provide survivor benefits required under part 831, subpart F of this chapter, and the 50-percent minimum annuity for air traffic controllers described in 5 U.S.C. 8339(e) do not apply to accrued benefits under this paragraph.
(3) Sick leave creditable under § 831.302 of this chapter is equal to the number of days of unused sick leave to an individual's credit as of the day of retirement, death, or as of the effective date of the election of FERS coverage, whichever is the lesser amount of sick leave, for an individual who—
(i) Retires under §§ 842.204, 842.205, 842.206, 842.207, 842.208, 842.209, 842.210, or 842.211 of this chapter;
(ii) Dies leaving a survivor eligible for a monthly FERS survivor annuity under § 843.310 or § 843.311 of this chapter; or
(iii) After retiring for disability, becomes entitled to an annuity computation under part 842, subpart D of this chapter.
(c) Accrued benefits are computed under FERS for the following service:
(1) Creditable civilian service performed on or after the effective date of the election of FERS coverage;
(2) Creditable civilian service other than as described in § 846.302(c); and
(3) Creditable military service other than that described in § 846.303 (b) and (c).
(d)(1) Except as specified in § 846.305, the average pay for computations under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section is the largest annual rate resulting from averaging the individual's rates of basic pay in effect over any 3 consecutive years of creditable service or, in the case of an annuity based on service of less than 3 years, over the total period of creditable service, with each rate weighted by the period it was in effect.
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, service is considered creditable if it is creditable under either CSRS or FERS.
(e)(1) The cost-of-living adjustments for the annuities of individuals electing FERS coverage are made as follows:
(i) The portion of the annuity computed under paragraph (b) of this section is adjusted as provided under CSRS.
(ii) The portion of the annuity computed under paragraph (c) of this section is adjusted as provided under FERS.
(2) An annuity initially payable to an annuitant's survivor (other than a child under part 843, subpart D of this chapter) is increased by the total percent by which the annuitant's annuity was increased under this paragraph. Thereafter, the survivor annuity is adjusted for cost-of-living increases under 5 U.S.C. 8462.
(f) In computing an annuity under paragraph (a) of this section for an employee retiring under § 842.204(a)(1) or § 842.212(b) of this chapter, any reduction for age required by § 842.404 of this chapter applies to the sum computed under paragraph (a) of this section. No reduction under CSRS is applicable.
(g) In computing an annuity under paragraph (a) of this section for an employee retiring early under § 842.205 of this chapter or involuntarily under § 842.206 of this chapter, the reduction for age required by 5 U.S.C. 8339(h) applies to the portion of the annuity computed under CSRS provisions.
(h) In computing an annuity under paragraph (a) for an employee retiring as a firefighter or law enforcement officer under § 842.208 of this chapter or as an air traffic controller under § 842.207 of this chapter, there is no applicable reduction for age.
(i) An annuity supplement under part 842, subpart E of this chapter, is computed using the same civilian service used for the computation under paragraph (c) of this section.
(j) An alternative form of annuity for a basic annuity computed under paragraph (a) of this section is computed as follows:
(1) The alternative benefit for the portion of the annuity computed under paragraph (b) of this section is computed under CSRS as provided in part 831, subpart V of this chapter, except that a refund of CSRS contributions based on a refund application filed after the individual elects FERS coverage may not be deemed to be redeposited under § 831.2206 of this chapter if the individual is entitled to a deferred annuity under § 842.212 of this chapter.
(2) The alternative benefit for the portion of the annuity computed under paragraph (c) of this section is computed under FERS as provided in part 842, subpart G of this chapter.
§ 846.305
General inapplicability of CSRS provisions.
(a) Except as provided by this part, CSRS provisions are not applicable with respect to an individual who elects FERS coverage.
(b) An employee (or an employee's survivor for the purposes of a survivor annuity) may make a deposit under CSRS for any civilian service under § 846.302(c) of this part or military service under § 846.303.
(c) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section precludes the payment of any lump-sum credit (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8331(8)) in accordance with part 831, subpart T of this chapter.
[52 FR 19235, May 21, 1987. Redesignated at 58 FR 48273, Sept. 15, 1993]

# Subpart D—Refunds of CSRS Contributions
§ 846.401
Refunds of excess contributions.
(a) An individual who elects FERS coverage is entitled to a refund of CSRS contributions made prior to the effective date of the election for service that is subject to FERS computation under § 846.304(c) (if not already refunded) which exceed the contributions required under FERS, as provided by this section.
(b) The refund is equal to—
(1) For service described in § 846.302(a) and performed on or after January 1, 1984, and before January 1, 1987, the amount by which the amount contributed exceeds 1.3 percent of basic pay;
(2) For service described in § 846.302(a) and performed on or after January 1, 1987, the amount by which the amount contributed exceeds the amount required under § 841.503 of this chapter; and
(3) For service described in § 846.302(b), the amount by which the amount contributed exceeds 1.3 percent of basic pay.
(c) A refund made under this section is payable with interest computed as prescribed under § 831.105 (d) and (e) of this chapter. Interest is payable regardless of the length of the period of
service for which refund is being made or the total amount of service the employee has.
(d) A refund described in this section is payable upon the receipt of an application by OPM or its designee.
§ 846.402
Refunds of all CSRS contributions.
(a) An individual who elects to transfer to FERS is entitled to a refund of all CSRS contributions in accordance with the provisions of part 831, subpart T of this chapter.
(b) An application for refund of FERS retirement contributions under § 843.202 of this chapter is deemed to also be an application for refund of CSRS retirement contributions under part 831, subpart T of this chapter.

# Subpart E—Cancellation of Designations of Beneficiary
§ 846.501
Cancellation upon transfer to FERS.
A designation of beneficiary made under § 831.2005 of this chapter is cancelled on the effective date of an election of FERS coverage. Designations of beneficiary under FERS must be made in accordance with § 843.205 of this chapter and apply to an employee's contributions under both CSRS and FERS.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—1998 Open Enrollment Elections

# Source:
63 FR 33233, June 18, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 846.701
Purpose and scope.
This subpart contains OPM's regulations applicable to elections of FERS coverage during the 1998 open enrollment period, including—
(a) The requirements that an individual must satisfy to be eligible to make an election; and
(b) The procedures that—
(1) Employees must follow to make an election;
(2) Agencies must follow in advising employees about making an election and in processing employees' elections; and
(3) OPM will follow in cases subject to the former spouse consent requirement.
§ 846.702
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Election
means an election of FERS coverage during the 1998 open enrollment period.
Former spouse consent requirement
means the condition that must be satisfied under section 301(d) of the FERS Act for an employee with a former spouse to be eligible to elect FERS coverage.
Qualifying court order
means a
court order acceptable for processing
as defined in § 838.103 of this chapter or a
qualifying court order
as defined in § 838.1003 of this chapter subject to the following conditions:
(1) If OPM has not received (as explained in § 838.131 of this chapter) a copy of the court order and identifying information required under § 838.221(b)(3), § 838.421(b)(3), § 838.721(b)(1)(iii), or § 838.1005(b)(3) of this chapter prior to the date on which the employing office receives the election to be covered by FERS, the court order is not a
qualifying court order.
(2) If the former spouse loses entitlement to all CSRS benefits under the court order, the court order ceases to be a
qualifying court order.
Social security coverage
means coverage under the Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance program under the Social Security Act.
1998 open enrollment period
means July 1, 1998, through December 31, 1998.
§ 846.703
Effective date of FERS coverage.
An election under this subpart is effective on the later of—
(a) The first day of the pay period beginning after the date the election and any required supporting documentation is received by the employing office; or
(b) The first day of the pay period beginning after July 1, 1998.
§ 846.704
Irrevocability of an election of FERS coverage.
(a) An election to be covered by FERS becomes irrevocable on the date it becomes effective.
(b) If, during the 1998 open enrollment period, an employee files an election on an SF 3109 to remain covered by CSRS, the employee may revoke such an election by filing another election during the 1998 open enrollment period.

# Who May Elect
§ 846.711
Eligibility to elect FERS coverage during the 1998 open enrollment period.
An employee who is not covered by FERS, and who was an employee on January 1, 1998, and who is not otherwise ineligible for FERS coverage (under subpart A of part 842 of this chapter or § 846.722) may elect FERS coverage during the 1998 open enrollment period.
§ 846.712
Statutory exclusions.
(a)
DC government employees.
An individual employed by the government of the District of Columbia is not eligible to make an election, except—
(1) Non-judicial employees of the District of Columbia Courts, District of Columbia Department of Corrections Trustee or the District of Columbia Pretrial Services, Defense Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee under the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, title XI of Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, who meet the conditions of § 831.201(g)(2), (3), and (4) of this chapter; and
(2) Employees of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority under the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995, Public Law 104-8, 109 Stat. 97, as amended, who elected CSRS under § 831.201(g)(5) of this chapter.
(b)
Members of Congress.
A Member (as defined in section 2106 of title 5, United States Code) is not eligible to make an election.
(c)
Persons without social security eligibility.
An individual is not eligible to make an election if that individual is not eligible for social security coverage.
§ 846.713
Former spouse consent requirement.
An election of FERS coverage cannot become effective unless the election is made with the written consent of any former spouse(s) entitled to benefits under part 838 of this chapter.

# Election Procedures
§ 846.721
Electing FERS coverage.
(a) To elect FERS coverage, an employee must submit a completed FERS Election of Coverage form (SF 3109) and any additional documentation that may be required under § 846.722 (relating to the former spouse consent requirement) to the employing office no later than the close of business on December 31, 1998.
(b) Any writing signed by the employee and filed with the employing office may be treated as an election for the purpose of establishing the date of the election of FERS coverage if the employee intends that document to be an election, but the employee (or, if the employee dies after filing the election but before completing the SF 3109, the survivor) must submit a completed SF 3109 to confirm any such election.
§ 846.722
Former spouse's consent to an election of FERS coverage.
(a) Employee actions. (1) If the employee is subject to a qualifying court order, the employee must submit to the employing office a completed—
(i) SF 3110, Former Spouse's Consent to FERS Election, to document the former spouse's consent to the FERS coverage; or
(ii) SF 3111, Request for Waiver, Extension, or Search, to request a waiver of the former spouse consent requirement or to request an extension of the time limit for obtaining a former spouse's consent or amendment of the court order.
(2) If the employee states on the SF 3109, the FERS Election of Coverage form, that he or she does not know
whether he or she is subject to a qualifying court order, the employee must submit to the employing office a completed SF 3111, Request for Waiver, Extension, or Search, to request OPM to determine whether it has a qualifying court order relating to the employee.
(b)
OPM actions
—(1)
Waiver of former spouse consent requirement
—(i)
Grounds for waiver.
OPM's authority to approve a waiver of the former spouse consent requirement is limited to cases in which the former spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined or exceptional circumstances make requiring the former spouse's consent inappropriate.
(ii)
Whereabouts cannot be determined.
OPM will waive the former spouse consent requirement upon a showing that the former spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined. A request for waiver on this basis must be accompanied by—
(A) A judicial or administrative determination that the former spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined; or
(B)(
1
) Affidavits by the employee and two other persons, at least one of whom is not related to the employee, attesting to the inability to locate the former spouse and stating the efforts made to locate the spouse; and
(
2
) Documentary corroboration such as newspaper reports about the former spouse's disappearance.
(iii)
Exceptional circumstances.
OPM will waive the former spouse consent requirement based on exceptional circumstances if the employee presents a judicial determination finding that—
(A) The case before the court involves a Federal employee who is in the process of electing FERS coverage and the former spouse of that employee;
(B) The former spouse has been given notice and an opportunity to be heard concerning this proceeding;
(C) The court has considered sections 301 and 302 of the FERS Act, Pub. L. 99-335, 100 Stat. 517, and this section as they relate to waiver of the former spouse consent requirement for an employee with a former spouse to elect FERS coverage; and
(D) The court finds that exceptional circumstances exist justifying waiver of the former spouse's consent.
(iv)
Approval of a waiver.
If OPM grants a waiver of the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, OPM will notify both the individual and the employing office of its decision. OPM's notice to the employing office is deemed to complete the individual's election, which becomes effective with the first pay period after the employing office receives OPM's notice that the waiver is granted.
(2)
Extension of the time limit to obtain a former spouse's consent
—(i)
First request.
If an employee who is ineligible to elect FERS coverage solely because of a qualifying court order files, prior to January 1, 1999, a completed SF 3111, Request for Waiver, Extension or Search, requesting an extension of the time limit to seek an amendment of a qualifying court order, OPM is deemed to have approved the extension through June 30, 1999.
(ii)
Second request.
OPM will grant one extension of the time limit to seek an amendment of a qualifying court order to an individual who has been granted an extension under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section if the individual—
(A) Files an application for the extension (SF 3109) with the employing office before July 1, 1999;
(B) Has initiated legal proceedings to secure the modification of the qualifying court order on file at OPM to satisfy the former spouse consent requirement;
(C) Demonstrates to OPM's satisfaction that the individual has exercised due diligence in seeking to obtain the modification; and
(D) If seeking an extension beyond December 31, 1999, demonstrates to OPM's satisfaction that a longer extension is necessary.
(iii)
Expiration date of a second extension.
An approved extension under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section expires on December 31, 1999, unless OPM's decision letter states a later expiration date.
(3)
Search for a qualifying court order.
(i) When an employing office notifies OPM that it has received an employee's request for a determination of whether OPM has a qualifying court order on file, OPM will determine whether it has such an order.
(ii) If OPM does not have a copy of a qualifying court order in its possession, OPM's notice to the employing office that it has no qualifying court order completes the employee's election of FERS coverage and the election becomes effective at the beginning of the first pay period after the employing office receives OPM's notification.
(iii) If OPM has a copy of a qualifying court order, OPM will notify both the individual and the employing office that it has a qualifying court order and that an extension until June 30, 1999, has been granted.
§ 846.723
Agency responsibilities.
(a) The employing office must determine whether the employee is eligible to elect FERS coverage.
(b)(1) As close as practicable to the beginning of the open enrollment period, the employing office must provide each employee eligible to elect FERS coverage with notice of that employee's right to make an election.
(2) The employing office must provide each employee eligible to elect FERS coverage with a copy of or ready access to the FERS Transfer Handbook.
(c) An election received by an employing office before July 1, 1998, is deemed to have been received by the employing office on July 1, 1998.
(d) An agency decision that an employee is not eligible to elect FERS coverage or refusing to accept a belated election under § 846.724 must be in writing, must fully set forth the findings and conclusions of the agency, and must notify the employee of the right to appeal the decision under this section to the Merit Systems Protection Board, including all information required under the Board's regulations. See 5 CFR 1201.21.
§ 846.724
Belated elections and correction of administrative errors.
(a)
Belated elections.
The employing office may accept a belated election of FERS coverage if it determines that—
(1) The employing office did not provide adequate notice to the employee in a timely manner;
(2) The agency did not provide access to the FERS Transfer Handbook to the employee in a timely manner; or
(3) The employee was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to elect FERS coverage within the prescribed time limit.
(b)
Correction of administrative errors.
Failure to begin employee deductions and Government contributions on the effective date of coverage must be corrected in accordance with § 841.505 of this chapter.
§ 846.725
Appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board.
(a) A person whose rights or interests under this part are affected by an agency decision that an employee is not eligible to elect FERS coverage or an agency refusal to accept a belated election under § 846.724, or an OPM decision denying an extension or waiver under § 846.722, may request the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) to review such decision in accord with procedures prescribed by MSPB. MSPB regulations relating to appeals are contained in chapter II of this title.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section is the exclusive remedy for review of agency decisions concerning eligibility to make an election under this subpart. An agency decision must not allow review under any employee grievance procedures, including those established by chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, and 5 CFR part 771.
§ 846.726
Delegation of authority to act as OPM's agent for receipt of employee communications relating to elections.
The employing office is delegated authority to act as OPM's agent for the receipt of any documents that employees are required by this subpart to file with OPM. Such documents are deemed received by OPM on the date that the employing office receives them.
Pt. 847

# PART 847—ELECTIONS OF RETIREMENT COVERAGE BY CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF NONAPPROPRIATED FUND INSTRUMENTALITIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
847.101
Purpose and scope.
847.102
Regulatory structure.
847.103
Definitions.
847.104
OPM responsibilities.
847.105
Agency responsibilities.
847.106
Agency decision concerning eligibility.
847.107
Appeals to MSPB.
847.108
Computation of time.

# Subpart B—Elections To Continue Retirement Coverage After a Qualifying Move
847.201
Purpose and scope.
847.202
Definition of qualifying move.
847.203
Elections of CSRS coverage.
847.204
Elections of FERS coverage.
847.205
Elections of NAFI retirement system coverage.
847.206
Time limit for making an election.
847.207
Effective dates of elections.
847.208
Changes of election.
847.209
Collection of CSRS and FERS retirement contributions from NAFI employers.
847.210
Collection of NAFI retirement contributions from Federal agencies.
847.211
Death of employee during election opportunity period.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Elections Under the Retroactive Provisions
847.301
Purpose and scope.
847.302
Notice of election rights.
847.303
Election forms.
847.304
Time limit.
847.305
Basic records.

# Subpart D—Elections of Coverage Under the Retroactive Provisions

# General Provisions
847.401
Purpose and scope.
847.402
Definition of qualifying move.

# Elections of CSRS or FERS Coverage Based on a Move From CSRS or FERS to NAFI
847.411
Election requirements.
847.412
Elections of FERS instead of CSRS.
847.413
Effective date of an election.
847.414
Crediting future NAFI service.
847.415
OASDI coverage.
847.416
Credit for refunded FERS service.

# Elections To Remain in FERS Coverage With Credit for NAFI Service Based on a Move From NAFI to FERS
847.421
Election requirements.
847.422
Crediting future NAFI service.
847.423
Credit for refunded FERS service.

# Elections to Remain in NAFI Coverage With Credit for FERS Service Based on a Move From FERS to NAFI
847.431
Election requirements.
847.432
Effect of a refund of FERS deductions.
847.433
Exclusion from FERS for future service.

# Elections of NAFI Coverage Based on a Move From NAFI to FERS
847.441
Election requirements.
847.442
Effective date.
847.443
Exclusion from FERS for future service.

# Subpart E—Transfers of Contributions Under the Retroactive Provisions
847.501
Purpose and scope.
847.502
Transfers to the CSR Fund.
847.503
Transfers from the CSR Fund.
847.504
Amount of transfer.
847.505
When transfer occurs.
847.506
Procedures for transfer.
847.507
Earnings after transfer.

# Subpart F—Additional Employee Costs Under the Retroactive Provisions
847.601
Purpose and scope.
847.602
[Reserved]
847.603
Date of present value and deficiency determinations.
847.604
Methodology for determining deficiency.
847.605
Methodology for determining the present value of annuity with service credit.
847.606
Methodology for determining the present value of annuity without service credit—credit not needed for title.
847.607
Methodology for determining the present value of annuity without service credit—credit needed for title.
847.608
Reduction in annuity due to deficiency.
Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 847—List of Events for Which Inclusion of NAFI Service May Affect the Rate of Annuity Payable

# Subpart G—Computation of Benefits Under the Retroactive Provisions
847.701
Purpose and scope.
847.702
Lump-sum payments and refunds.
847.703
Reductions in annuity.
847.704
Maximum survivor annuity election.
847.705
Cost-of-living adjustments.

# Subpart H—Electing To Credit NAFI Service for CSRS and FERS Retirement Eligibility
847.801
What information is in this subpart?
847.802
Who may elect to use NAFI service to qualify for immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS?
847.803
When do employees make the election to use their NAFI service to qualify for an immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS?
847.804
How do employees make an election to use their NAFI service to qualify for an immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS?
847.805
What NAFI service can employees elect to credit toward retirement eligibility under CSRS or FERS?
847.806
How much NAFI service must employees elect to use to qualify for an immediate CSRS or FERS retirement?
847.807
Do employees have to pay CSRS or FERS deposits for the NAFI service they use to qualify for immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS?
847.808
Is money in the NAFI retirement fund covering NAFI service that an employee elects to use for immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS, transferred to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund?
847.809
What effect will NAFI service used to qualify for an immediate retirement have on the amount of the CSRS or FERS annuity?

# Subpart I—Computing the Retirement Annuity for Employees Who Elect To Use NAFI Service to Qualify for an Immediate CSRS or FERS Retirement
847.901
What information is in this subpart?
847.902
How does an election to credit NAFI service for immediate CSRS or FERS retirement under subpart H of this part affect the computation of the CSRS or FERS retirement annuity?
847.903
How is the monthly reduction to the retirement annuity computed?
847.904
What are Present Value Factors?
847.905
How is the present value of an immediate annuity with credit for NAFI service computed?
847.906
How is the present value of a deferred annuity without credit for NAFI service computed?
847.907
How is the monthly annuity rate used to compute the present value of the deferred annuity without credit for NAFI service determined?
847.908
If a retiree who elected to credit NAFI service under subpart H of this part earns a supplemental annuity under 5 CFR part 837, how will that supplemental annuity be computed?
847.909
If a retiree who elected to credit NAFI service under subpart H of this part earns a right to a redetermined annuity under 5 CFR part 837, how will the redetermined annuity be computed?
847.910
If a retiree who elected to credit NAFI service for CSRS immediate retirement returns to work for the Government under conditions that terminate the annuity, how will the retirement annuity be computed when the employee's service with the Government ends?
847.911
Is an employee who elects to credit NAFI service to qualify for an immediate FERS retirement under subpart H of this part eligible for an FERS annuity supplement under 5 CFR 842 subpart E?
847.912
If an employee who elects to credit NAFI service under subpart H of this part elects a survivor annuity will the monthly survivor annuity rate be subject to reduction?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8332(b)(17) and 8411(b)(6) and sections 1131 and 1132 of Pub. L. 107-107, December 28, 2001, 115 Stat 1242; 5 U.S.C. 8347(a) and 8461(g) and section 1043(b) of Pub. L. 104-106, Div. A, Title X, Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 434. Subpart B also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8347(q) and 8461(n).

# Source:
61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 847.101
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part contains the regulations issued by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to implement the statutory election rights of certain current and former NAFI employees under the Portability of Benefits for Nonappropriated Fund Employees Act of 1990, section 1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, and sections 1131 and 1132 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002.
(b) This part establishes—
(1) The eligibility requirements for making an election;
(2) The procedures for making elections;
(3) The methodologies to determine the employee costs associated with the elections; and
(4) The methodologies to calculate benefits that include credit for NAFI service based on such elections.
(c)(1) The regulations in this part apply to individuals covered by CSRS or FERS (and their survivors) and the employers of such individuals. The Department of Defense and the U.S. Coast Guard will issue any necessary regulations to implement these election rights to the extent they affect NAFI retirement systems under their jurisdiction.
(2) The regulations in this part apply only to CSRS benefits and FERS basic benefits. They do not apply to benefits
under the Thrift Savings Plan described in subchapter III of chapter 84, of title 5, United States Code.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.102
Regulatory structure.
(a)(1) Subpart A of this part contains information applicable to all elections under this part.
(2) Subpart B of this part contains information about prospective retirement coverage elections under sections 8347(q) and 8461(n) of title 5, United States Code.
(3) Subpart C of this part contains information about the procedures applicable to retroactive retirement coverage and alternative credit elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.
(4) Subpart D of this part contains information about the types of retroactive elections available, the eligibility requirements for each type of election, the effects of an election on CSRS and FERS coverage during future employment, and the effective dates of CSRS and FERS coverage applicable to elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.
(5) Subpart E of this part contains information about transferring retirement contributions in connection with elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.
(6) Subpart F of this part contains information about determining the employee costs associated with elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.
(7) Subpart G of this part contains information about benefits indirectly affected by elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.
(8) Subpart H of this part contains information about elections to credit NAFI service to qualify for immediate retirement under section 1132 of Public Law 107-107, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002.
(9) Subpart I of this part contains information about how benefits are computed when employees elect to credit NAFI service to qualify for immediate retirement under section 1132 of Public Law 107-107, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002.
(b) Section 831.305 of this chapter contains information about CSRS credit for NAFI service performed after June 18, 1952, but before January 1, 1966.
(c)(1) Part 831 of this chapter contains information about the Civil Service Retirement System.
(2) Parts 841 through 844 of this chapter contain information about FERS basic benefits.
(3) Part 837 of this chapter contains information about reemployment of annuitants.
(4) Part 870 of this chapter contains information about the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Program.
(5) Part 890 of this chapter contains information about coverage under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
(6) Chapter II (parts 1200 through 1299) of this title contains information about appeals to the Merit Systems Protection Board.
(7) Chapter VI (parts 1600 through 1699) of this title contains information about the Federal Employees Thrift Savings Plan.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.103
Definitions.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the definitions in sections 8331 and 8401 of title 5, United States Code, apply throughout this part.
(b) In this part—
Actuarial present value
means the amount of monthly annuity at time of retirement multiplied by the applicable present value factor.
Age
means the number of years an individual has been alive as of his or her last birthday.
Agency
means an executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code; a legislative branch agency; a judicial agency; and the U.S. Postal Service and Postal Rate Commission.
Annuitant
means a
retiree
or a
survivor.
CSRS or FERS
means the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System as described in chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Deferred annuity date
means the earliest date on which a retiree would be eligible, without credit for the NAFI service, to receive a deferred annuity based on his or her actual date of separation.
Deficiency
means the remainder of the actuarial present value of crediting NAFI service, after subtracting the amount credited to the employee from a transfer to the Fund under subpart E of this part, and earnings under § 847.507 on the transferred amount.
Employee contributions with interest
means the dollar amount deducted from an employee's pay for retirement system participation, plus any amounts the employee deposited for civilian service credit under the retirement system, and interest, if any, payable under § 841.605 of this chapter (for FERS) or under applicable NAFI retirement system rules.
Fund
means the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund established in section 8348 of title 5, United States Code.
Government contributions
means the dollar amount which was contributed on behalf of an employee by his or her employer for retirement system participation.
Monthly annuity rate
means the amount of the monthly single life annuity under CSRS or FERS (computed without regard to any survivor benefit reductions computed under sections 8339 (j) or (k), and 8418 through 8420 of title 5, United States Code), before any offset relating to benefits under the Social Security Act under section 8349 of title 5, United States Code, but after including any reduction for age (5 U.S.C. 8339(h) or 8415(f)) or for crediting nondeduction civilian service performed before October 1, 1982 (5 U.S.C.A. 8339(i), note).
NAFI
means a nonappropriated fund instrumentality described in section 2105(c) of title 5, United States Code.
Present value factor
has the same meaning in this part as defined in § 842.602.
Retiree
means a former employee who, on the basis of his or her service meets all the requirements for title to a CSRS or FERS annuity and files claim therefor.
Survivor
means a widow, widower, or former spouse entitled to a CSRS or FERS annuity based on the service of a deceased employee, separated employee, or retiree.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003; 82 FR 49282, Oct. 25, 2017]
§ 847.104
OPM responsibilities.
(a) OPM will issue guidance to employing agencies to use when notifying their employees about the opportunity to make an election under this part and for counseling employees in connection with the election.
(b) OPM will issue instructions to agencies concerning the transfer of funds and recordkeeping in connection with these elections.
(c) OPM will determine if an employee who wishes to make an election under 5 CFR part 847, subpart H, is eligible to make such an election, and OPM's determination is subject to reconsideration under 5 CFR part 831, subpart A, or 5 CFR part 841, subpart C.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.105
Agency responsibilities.
(a) Each agency is responsible for notifying its employees of the opportunity to make an election under this part and for determining if an employee who wishes to make an election under subparts B and D of this part is qualified to do so, and for counseling employees in accordance with guidance issued by OPM.
(b) If an agency determines that an employee is not eligible to make an election under subparts B and D of this part, the agency shall issue a final decision to the employee that meets the requirements of § 847.106, including notice of the right to appeal under § 847.107.
[68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.106
Agency decision concerning eligibility.
(a) If the agency determines that the employee is not eligible to make an election under subpart B or D of this part, it must issue a final decision to the employee.
(b) A final decision shall be in writing, shall fully set forth the findings and conclusions of the agency, and shall contain notice of the right to request an appeal provided in § 847.107.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.107
Appeals to MSPB.
(a) An individual whose rights or interests under the CSRS or FERS are affected by a final decision of the employing agency may request the Merit Systems Protection Board to review such decision in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Board.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section is the exclusive remedy for review of agency decisions concerning eligibility to make an election under subparts B and D of this part. An agency decision must not allow review under any employee grievance procedures, including those established by 5 U.S.C. chapter 71, and 5 CFR part 771.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.108
Computation of time.
In computing a period of time for filing documents, the day of the action or event after which the designated period of time begins to run is not included. The last day of the period is included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday; in this event, the period runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday.

# Subpart B—Elections To Continue Retirement Coverage After a Qualifying Move
§ 847.201
Purpose and scope.
This subpart contains OPM's regulations on the procedures, eligibility requirements, time limits and effects of elections under sections 8347(q) and 8461(n) of title 5, United States Code.
§ 847.202
Definition of qualifying move.
(a) A qualifying move occurring on or after December 28, 2001, that would allow an opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under CSRS and FERS must meet all of the following criteria:
(1) The employee must not have had a prior opportunity to elect to continue CSRS or FERS retirement coverage.
(2) The employee must have moved from a position covered by CSRS or FERS to a retirement-covered position in an NAFI, and
(3) The employee must begin employment in a retirement-covered position in an NAFI no later than 1 year after separation from CSRS- or FERS-covered employment.
(b) A qualifying move occurring on or after December 28, 2001, that would allow an opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under an NAFI retirement system must meet all the following criteria:
(1) The employee must not have had a prior opportunity to elect to continue NAFI retirement system coverage;
(2) The employee must have moved from an NAFI to a civil service position subject to CSRS or FERS coverage; and
(3) The employee must be appointed to a CSRS- or FERS-covered position no later than 1 year after separation from retirement-covered NAFI employment.
(c) A qualifying move occurring on or after August 10, 1996, and before December 28, 2001, that would allow an opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under CSRS and FERS must meet all the following criteria:
(1) The employee must not have had a prior opportunity to elect to continue CSRS or FERS retirement coverage;
(2) The employee must have been vested in CSRS or FERS prior to the move to an NAFI;
(3) The employee must have moved from a position covered by CSRS or FERS to a retirement-covered position in an NAFI; and
(4) The employee must begin employment in a retirement-covered position
in an NAFI no later than 1 year after separation from CSRS- or FERS-covered employment.
(d) A qualifying move occurring on or after August 10, 1996, and before December 28, 2001, that would allow an opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under an NAFI retirement system must meet all the following criteria:
(1) The employee must not have had a prior opportunity to elect to continue NAFI retirement system coverage;
(2) The employee must have been a vested participant in the NAFI retirement system (as the term “vested participant” is defined by that retirement system) prior to the move to a CSRS- or FERS-covered position;
(3) The employee must have moved from an NAFI to a civil service position subject to CSRS or FERS coverage; and
(4) The employee must be appointed to a CSRS- or FERS-covered position no later than 1 year after separation from retirement-covered NAFI employment.
(e) A qualifying move occurring between January 1, 1987, and August 9, 1996, that would allow an opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under CSRS or FERS must meet all the following criteria:
(1) The employee must not have had a prior opportunity to elect to continue CSRS or FERS retirement coverage;
(2) The employee must have been vested in CSRS or FERS prior to the move to an NAFI;
(3) The employee must have moved from a CSRS- or FERS-covered position within the Department of Defense or the U.S. Coast Guard to a retirement-covered position with an NAFI; and
(4) The employee must begin employment in a retirement-covered position in an NAFI no later than 4 days after separation from CSRS- or FERS-covered employment.
(f) A qualifying move occurring between January 1, 1987, and August 9, 1996, that would allow an opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under an NAFI retirement system must meet all the following criteria:
(1) The employee must not have had a prior opportunity to elect to continue NAFI retirement system coverage;
(2) The employee must have been a vested participant in the NAFI retirement system (as the term “vested participant” is defined by that retirement system) prior to the move to the civil service;
(3) The employee must have moved from an NAFI to a CSRS- or FERS-covered position within the Department of Defense or the U.S. Coast Guard; and
(4) The employee must be appointed to a CSRS- or FERS-covered position no later than 4 days after separation from retirement-covered NAFI employment.
(g) A qualifying move under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section is considered to occur on the date the individual enters into the new position, not at the time of separation from the prior position.
(h) A retroactive election opportunity under subpart D of this part (pertaining to elections of CSRS, FERS, or NAFI retirement coverage) is not considered a prior opportunity to elect retirement coverage under this section.
[68 FR 2179, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.203
Elections of CSRS coverage.
(a) An employee who completes a qualifying move (under § 847.202(a), (c), or (e)) from a CSRS-covered position to an NAFI may elect to continue CSRS coverage.
(b) An employee who elects CSRS coverage under this section will be covered by CSRS (or FERS, if the employee subsequently transfers to FERS under part 846 of this chapter) during all periods of future service not excluded from coverage by CSRS, including any periods of service with a NAFI.
(c) An employee who makes an election under paragraph (a) of this section and who has had a break in service exceeding 3 days is eligible to elect FERS under part 846 of this chapter.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2180, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.204
Elections of FERS coverage.
(a) An employee who completes a qualifying move under § 847.202(a), (c) or (e) from an FERS-covered position to an NAFI may elect to continue FERS coverage.
(b) An employee who elects FERS coverage under this section will be covered by FERS during all periods of future service not excluded from coverage by FERS, including any periods of service with a NAFI.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2180, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.205
Elections of NAFI retirement system coverage.
(a) An employee who completes a qualifying move under § 847.202(b), (d), or (f), from an NAFI position to a CSRS- or FERS-covered position may elect to continue coverage under the NAFI retirement system.
(b) An employee who elects NAFI retirement system coverage under this section is excluded from coverage under CSRS or FERS during that and all subsequent periods of employment, including any periods of service as a reemployed annuitant.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2180, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.206
Time limit for making an election.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the time limit for making the election is 30 days after the qualifying move.
(b) Agencies may waive the time limit if it finds that the employee was not timely given the opportunity to make the election, or, despite due diligence, was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making an election within the time limit.
(c) An agency decision to waive the time limit must comply with the provisions of § 847.106, including notification of the right of appeal under § 847.107.
§ 847.207
Effective dates of elections.
Elections under this subpart are effective on the date of the qualifying move.
§ 847.208
Changes of election.
An election under this subpart is irrevocable when received by the employing agency.
§ 847.209
Collection of CSRS and FERS retirement contributions from NAFI employers.
CSRS and FERS salary deductions and contributions for NAFI employees who have elected CSRS or FERS coverage under this subpart must be made and submitted to OPM in the manner currently prescribed for the transmission of withholdings and contributions.
§ 847.210
Collection of NAFI retirement contributions from Federal agencies.
The Department of Defense and the U.S. Coast Guard will establish procedures for agencies to withhold and submit retirement contributions to the retirement systems for employees who elect to be covered by a retirement system for NAFI employees under this subpart.
§ 847.211
Death of employee during election opportunity period.
(a) When an employee eligible to make an election under this subpart dies before expiration of the time limit under § 847.206, the employee is deemed to have made the election and to be covered, at time of death, by the retirement system that covered the employee before the qualifying move.
(b) The deemed election under paragraph (a) of this section does not apply if the eligible survivor elects to have it not apply.
(c) An election by the survivor to decline the deemed election must be in writing and filed no later than 30 days after the employing agency notifies the survivor of the right to decline the deemed election.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Elections Under the Retroactive Provisions
§ 847.301
Purpose and scope.
This subpart establishes the procedures applicable to elections section
1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.
§ 847.302
Notice of election rights.
The employing agency must provide notice to all eligible employees of the opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under subpart D of this part. Failure to provide notice to the employee is justification for waiving the time limit under § 847.304.
§ 847.303
Election forms.
(a) Eligible employees may make an election under subpart D of this part on a form prescribed by OPM and filed with the employing agency.
(b) For elections of retirement coverage under subpart D of this part, the election form will require that the employee obtain a certification from his or her previous retirement system showing dates of service, amounts transferable from the previous retirement system to the elected retirement system under subpart E of this part, and that the employee became vested in the retirement system. If an employee was covered by more than one retirement system, he or she must obtain certification from each retirement system.
§ 847.304
Time limit.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the time limit for making an election under subpart D of this part is August 11, 1997.
(b) Because Public Law 104-106 requires that eligible employees receive timely notice of the opportunity to make the election under subpart D of this part, and that employees must be counseled concerning the election opportunity, the employing agency must waive the time limit in paragraph (a) of this section in the event that an employee did not receive such notice or counselling.
§ 847.305
Basic records.
(a) Agencies must establish and maintain retirement accounts for employees subject to CSRS or FERS in the manner prescribed by OPM.
(b) The individual retirement record (Standard Form 2806 for CSRS, or Standard Form 3100 for FERS) is the basic record for action on all claims for annuity or refund, and those pertaining to deceased employees and annuitants.

# Subpart D—Elections of Coverage Under the Retroactive Provisions

# General Provisions
§ 847.401
Purpose and scope.
This subpart contains OPM's regulations concerning the types of elections available, the eligibility requirements for each type of election, the effects of an election on CSRS and FERS coverage during future employment, and the effective dates of CSRS and FERS coverage applicable to retroactive retirement coverage and credit elections under section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.
§ 847.402
Definition of qualifying move.
(a) A qualifying move occurring after December 31, 1965, and before August 10, 1996, which would allow an employee the opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under CSRS or FERS retroactive to the date of the move must meet all the following criteria:
(1)(i) For moves occurring before February 10, 1996, the employee must not have had a prior opportunity to elect to continue CSRS, FERS, or NAFI retirement coverage under § 847.202(e) or (f);
(ii) For moves occurring on or after February 10, 1996, the employee must not have made an election under § 847.202(e) or (f);
(2) The employee must have been vested in CSRS or FERS prior to the move to a NAFI;
(3) The employee must have moved from a position covered by CSRS or FERS to a retirement-covered position in a NAFI;
(4) The employee must have begun employment in a retirement-covered position in a NAFI no later than 1 year after separation from CSRS- or FERS-covered employment; and
(5) The employee must, since moving to the NAFI position, have continuously participated in a retirement system established for NAFI employees,
disregarding any break in service of not more than 3 days.
(b) A qualifying move occurring after December 31, 1965, and before August 10, 1996, which would allow an employee the opportunity to elect to continue retirement coverage under a NAFI retirement system retroactive to the date of the qualifying move must meet all the following criteria:
(1)(i) For moves occurring before February 10, 1996, the employee must not have had a prior opportunity to elect to continue CSRS, FERS, or NAFI retirement coverage under § 847.202(e) or (f);
(ii) For moves occurring on or after February 10, 1996, the employee must not have made an election under § 847.202(e) or (f);
(2) The employee must have been a vested participant in the NAFI retirement system (as the term “vested participant” is defined by that retirement system) prior to the move to a FERS-covered position;
(3) The employee must have moved from a NAFI to a civil service position subject to FERS coverage or CSRS/SS coverage, as defined in § 846.102 of this chapter, followed by the employee's automatic conversion to FERS coverage;
(4) The employee must have been appointed to a FERS-covered position no later than 1 year after separation from retirement-covered NAFI employment; and
(5) The employee must, since moving to the FERS position, have been continuously covered by FERS, disregarding any break in service of not more than 3 days.
(c) A move from a NAFI to CSRS, including CSRS/SS as defined under § 846.102 of this chapter followed by an election of FERS coverage under § 846.201 of this chapter, is not a qualifying move for an election of retirement coverage under § 847.431 (pertaining to elections of NAFI service credit for FERS service) and § 847.441 (pertaining to elections of NAFI retirement coverage).
(d) A qualifying move under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is considered to occur on the date the individual entered into the new position, not at the time of separation from the prior position.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2180, Jan. 16, 2003]

# Elections of CSRS or FERS Coverage Based on a Move From CSRS or FERS to NAFI
§ 847.411
Election requirements.
(a) An employee who completed a qualifying move under § 847.402(a) may elect to be covered by CSRS, if the qualifying move was from a CSRS-covered position, or FERS, if the qualifying move was from a FERS-covered position, for all Federal service following the qualifying move. Employees who elect to be covered by CSRS will be prospectively covered by the CSRS Offset provisions set out in subpart J of part 831 of this chapter.
(b) A survivor eligible for benefits under the NAFI retirement system which covered an employee at the time of death may make an election under this section if the employee was otherwise eligible to make an election, but died before expiration of the time limit under § 847.304.
§ 847.412
Elections of FERS instead of CSRS.
(a) An employee who elects CSRS coverage under § 847.411(a) may, during the 6-month period beginning on the date the election under § 847.411(a) is filed with the employing agency, elect to become subject to FERS.
(b) An election of FERS under this section is subject to the provisions of part 846 of this subchapter and takes effect on the first day of the first pay period after the employing agency receives the election.
§ 847.413
Effective date of an election.
(a) An election under § 847.411 is effective on the first day of NAFI employment subject to retirement coverage following CSRS- or FERS-covered employment.
(b) Deductions and contributions for CSRS or FERS coverage under § 831.111 or § 841.501 of this chapter begin effective on the first day of the next pay period after the agency receives the employee's election under § 847.411(a).
(c) An election under § 847.411 is irrevocable when received by the employing agency.
(d) NAFI service performed on and after the effective date of an election under § 847.411 becomes fully creditable for retirement eligibility and computation of the annuity benefit, including computation of average pay.
§ 847.414
Crediting future NAFI service.
An employee who elects CSRS or FERS coverage under § 847.411 will be covered by CSRS or FERS during all periods of future service not excluded from coverage by CSRS or FERS, including any periods of service with a NAFI and service as a reemployed annuitant.
§ 847.415
OASDI coverage.
An employee who elects CSRS coverage under § 847.411 is prospectively subject to both the Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) tax and CSRS as described in subpart J of part 831 of this chapter, known as CSRS Offset, effective from the first day of the next pay period after the employing agency receives the employee's election under § 847.411(a).
§ 847.416
Credit for refunded FERS service.
(a) An employee or survivor who elects FERS coverage under § 847.411 will receive credit in the FERS annuity for the service represented by any refund of the unexpended balance under § 843.202 of this chapter.
(b) The amount of the refund, increased by interest as computed under § 842.305(e) of this chapter, will be added to the deficiency computed under § 847.604 and collected in accordance with the provisions of § 847.609 (pertaining to a monthly reduction in the annuity benefit).

# Elections to Remain in FERS Coverage With Credit for NAFI Service Based on a Move From NAFI to FERS
§ 847.421
Election requirements.
(a)(1)(i) A FERS employee who completed a qualifying move under § 847.402(b) may, instead of the election provided by § 847.441 (pertaining to elections of NAFI retirement coverage), elect to remain subject to FERS for all subsequent periods of service.
(ii) Prior service under a NAFI retirement system becomes creditable under FERS rules without regard to whether a refund of contributions for such period has been paid by the NAFI retirement system.
(2) A FERS employee who has had a previous opportunity to elect retirement coverage under § 847.202(e) or (f) is not excluded from making this election.
(b) A survivor may make an election under paragraph (a) of this section if the employee was otherwise eligible to elect FERS coverage and FERS service credit, but died before expiration of the time limit under § 847.304.
(c) NAFI service made creditable under FERS by an election under this section become creditable for FERS retirement eligibility and FERS annuity computation, including average pay, upon receipt of the election by the employing agency.
(d) A election under this section is irrevocable when received by the employing agency.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2180, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.422
Crediting future NAFI service.
An employee who elects to remain in FERS coverage with credit for NAFI service under § 847.421(a) will be covered by FERS during all periods of future service not excluded from coverage by FERS, including any periods of service with a NAFI and service as a reemployed annuitant.
§ 847.423
Credit for refunded FERS service.
(a) An employee or survivor who elects FERS coverage with credit for NAFI service under § 847.421 will receive credit in the FERS annuity for the service represented by any refund of the unexpended balance under § 843.202 of this chapter.
(b) The amount of the refund, increased by interest as computed under § 842.305(e) of this chapter, will be added to the deficiency computed under § 847.604 and collected in accordance
with the provisions of § 847.609 (pertaining to a monthly reduction in the annuity benefit).

# Elections To Remain in NAFI Coverage With Credit for FERS Service Based on a Move From FERS to NAFI
§ 847.431
Election requirements.
(a)(1)(i) A NAFI employee who completed a qualifying move from FERS under § 847.402(a) may, instead of the election provided by § 847.411 (pertaining to elections of CSRS and FERS coverage), elect to remain subject to the current NAFI retirement system for all subsequent periods of service.
(ii) Prior service under FERS becomes credible under the NAFI retirement system rules.
(2) An NAFI employee who has had a previous opportunity to elect retirement coverage under § 847.202(e) or (f) is not excluded from making this election.
(b) A survivor may make an election under paragraph (a) of this section if the employee was otherwise eligible, but died before expiration of the time limit under § 847.304.
(c) An election under this section is irrevocable when received by the employing agency.
[61 FR 41721, Aug. 9, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 2180, Jan. 16, 2003]
§ 847.432
Effect of a refund of FERS deductions.
OPM will inform the NAFI retirement system of the amount of service performed under FERS, without regard to whether a refund of contributions for such period has been paid under FERS.
§ 847.433
Exclusion from FERS for future service.
(a) An employee who elects NAFI retirement system coverage with credit for FERS service under § 847.431(a) is excluded from coverage under FERS during that and all subsequent periods of employment, including any periods of service as a reemployed annuitant.
(b) FERS service which becomes creditable in a NAFI retirement benefit based on an election under § 847.431 is not creditable for any purpose under FERS.

# Elections of NAFI Coverage Based on a Move From NAFI to FERS
§ 847.441
Election requirements.
(a) An employee who completed a qualifying move under § 847.402(b) may elect to be covered by a NAFI retirement system for all Federal service following the qualifying move.
(b) A survivor eligible for benefits under FERS may make an election under this section if the employee was otherwise eligible to make an election, but died before expiration of the time limit under § 847.304.
§ 847.442
Effective date.
(a) An election under § 847.441 is effective on the first day of FERS-covered employment following NAFI employment subject to retirement coverage.
(b) Deductions and contributions for NAFI retirement system coverage begin effective on the first day of the next pay period after the agency receives the employee's election under § 847.441(a).
(c) An election under § 847.441 is irrevocable when received by the employing agency.
§ 847.443
Exclusion from FERS for future service.
An employee who elects NAFI retirement system coverage with credit for FERS service under § 847.441(a) is excluded from coverage under FERS during that and all subsequent periods of employment, including any periods of service as a reemployed annuitant.

# Subpart E—Transfers of Contributions Under the Retroactive Provisions
§ 847.501
Purpose and scope.
This subpart regulates transferring retirement contributions and crediting those contributions to offset the employee costs in connection with elections section 1043(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996.
§ 847.502
Transfers to the CSR Fund.
For elections of CSRS or FERS coverage under § 847.411 or FERS coverage and service credit under § 847.421, the amount under § 847.504 will be transferred to the Fund using the procedures established under § 847.506.
§ 847.503
Transfers from the CSR Fund.
For elections of NAFI retirement system coverage under § 847.441, the amount under § 847.504 will be transferred from the Fund using the procedures established under § 847.506.
§ 847.504
Amount of transfer.
(a) All transfers must include employee contributions with interest, if not previously refunded, and Government contributions for civilian service which becomes creditable under the elected retirement system due to an election under §§ 847.411, 847.421, and 846.441.
(b) If the employee has withdrawn his or her contributions to the retirement system, the amount required by paragraph (a) of this section, less the amount refunded, will be transferred.
§ 847.505
When transfer occurs.
(a) OPM, the Department of Defense, and the U.S. Coast Guard will transfer the amount specified in § 847.504 as soon as practicable after receipt of an election of retirement coverage under subpart D of this part.
(b) The transfer of contributions may not be delayed until the employee retires or separates from service.
§ 847.506
Procedures for transfer.
OPM, the Department of Defense, and the U.S. Coast Guard will jointly determine the procedure for transfer of contributions.
§ 847.507
Earnings after transfer.
Amounts transferred to the Fund under § 847.502 that are used to determine the deficiency under § 847.604 accrue interest at the rate prescribed under § 841.603 of this chapter from the date of receipt in OPM through the date determined under § 847.603 (pertaining to the date of calculation of any deficiency).

# Subpart F—Additional Employee Costs Under the Retroactive Provisions
§ 847.601
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to establish the methodology that OPM will use to determine—
(1) The cost of an employee's election under § 847.411 or § 847.421; and
(2) The amount by which annuity payments may be affected as a result of the election.
(b) This subpart applies only to CSRS and FERS benefits. The Departments of Defense, and the U.S. Coast Guard will issue regulations providing methodologies for NAFI's under their jurisdictions.
§ 847.602
[Reserved]
§ 847.603
Date of present value and deficiency determinations.
(a) For determining the deficiency under § 847.604, OPM will determine, under §§ 847.605 through 847.607, the present values of future retirement benefits (with and without credit for the NAFI service) as of the first date on which inclusion of credit for the NAFI service will affect the rate of annuity payable.
(b) Appendix A to this subpart contains a table in which the left column is a list of events for which inclusion of credit for the NAFI service will affect the rate of annuity payable and the right column indicates the date on which the deficiency will be determined.
§ 847.604
Methodology for determining deficiency.
(a) When an event listed in the left column of the table in Appendix A to this subpart occurs, OPM will compute the deficiency, as follows:
(1) As of the date of computation under § 847.603, OPM will determine—
(i) The present value of the annuity including credit for the NAFI service under § 847.605;
(ii) The present value of the annuity without credit for the NAFI service under § 847.606 or § 847.607, as applicable; and
(iii) The amount credited to the employee from a transfer to the Fund
under subpart E of this part including earnings under § 847.507.
(2) OPM will add the amount determined under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section and subtract that sum from the amount determined under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(b) If the amount determined under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is greater than zero, the deficiency is equal to that amount.
(c) If no event listed in the left column of the table in Appendix A to this subpart occurs—that is, the additional service credit does not cause an increase in an employee annuity or a survivor annuity actually paid—or, if the amount determined under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is less than or equal to zero, the deficiency equals zero.
§ 847.605
Methodology for determining the present value of annuity with service credit.
(a) OPM will determine the present value of the annuity including service credit for NAFI service under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(b) In cases in which the annuity is payable to a retiree, the present value under paragraph (a) of this section equals the monthly annuity rate including credit for the NAFI service as of the date of computation under § 847.603 times the present value factor for the retiree's age on that date.
(c) In cases in which the annuity is payable to a survivor, the present value under paragraph (a) of this section equals the monthly annuity rate including credit for the NAFI service as of the date of computation under § 847.603 times the present value factor for the survivor's age on that date.
§ 847.606
Methodology for determining the present value of annuity without service credit—credit not needed for title.
(a) If credit for the NAFI service is not necessary to provide title to an annuity payable on the date of computation under § 847.603, OPM will determine the present value of the annuity without credit for the NAFI service under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(b) In cases in which the annuity is payable to a retiree, the present value under paragraph (a) of this section equals the monthly annuity rate without credit for the NAFI service as of the date of computation under § 847.603 times the present value factor for the retiree's age on that date.
(c) In cases in which the annuity is payable to a survivor, the present value under paragraph (a) of this section equals the monthly annuity rate including credit for the NAFI service as of the date of computation under § 847.603 times the present value factor for the survivor's age on that date.
§ 847.607
Methodology for determining the present value of annuity without service credit—credit needed for title.
(a) If credit for the NAFI service is necessary to provide title to an annuity payable on the date of computation under § 847.603, OPM will determine the present value of the annuity without credit for the NAFI service under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(b)(1) In cases in which the annuity is payable to a retiree, the present value under paragraph (a) of this section equals the present value of the deferred annuity without credit for the NAFI service as of the deferred annuity date discounted for interest to that date determined under § 847.603.
(2) The present value of the deferred annuity without credit for the NAFI service as of the deferred annuity date equals the retiree's monthly annuity rate without credit for the NAFI service as of the deferred annuity date times the present value factor for the retiree's age on that date.
(3) The present value under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is discounted for interest by dividing that amount by a factor equal to the value of exponential function in which—
(i) The base is one plus the assumed interest rate under § 841.405 of this chapter on the date determined under § 847.603, and
(ii) The exponent is one-twelfth of the number of months between the date determined under § 847.603 and the deferred annuity date.
(c) In cases in which the annuity is payable to a survivor, the present
value under paragraph (a) of this section equals zero, that is, no survivor annuity would ever become payable without credit for the NAFI service.
§ 847.608
Reduction in annuity due to deficiency.
Any annuity payable in the case of an employee who has made an election under subpart D of this part will include credit for the NAFI service. The monthly annuity rate on the date determined under § 847.603 will be permanently reduced by an amount equal to the amount of any deficiency divided by the present value factor for the annuitant's age on that date.
Pt. 847, Subpt. F, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 847—List of Events for Which Inclusion of NAFI Service May Affect the Rate of Annuity Payable
Type of event
Date deficiency will be determined
CSRS or FERS nondisability retirement
Commencing date of annuity.
CSRS disability retirement
Commencing date of annuity.
1
FERS disability retirement
First day of month following 62nd birthday.
2
CSRS death in service
Commencing date of survivor annuity.
3
FERS death in service
Commencing date of survivor annuity.
FERS death of disability annuitant prior to age 62
Commencing date of survivor annuity.
FERS death of separated employee
Commencing date of survivor annuity.
CSRS or FERS redetermination of annuity
Commencing date of redetermined annuity benefit.
1
Disability annuity with and without credit for NAFI service must be computed. If annuity payable under each computation is identical due to guaranteed minimum annuity, then deficiency is zero.
2
Generally, the date the deficiency is determined will be the disability retiree's 62nd birthday. However, if an annuity benefit based on the retiree's actual years of service and salary becomes payable prior to age 62, the deficiency is computed at that time.
3
Deficiency amount could be zero if survivor is eligible for the guaranteed minimum annuity amount under both computations.

# Subpart G—Computation of Benefits Under the Retroactive Provisions
§ 847.701
Purpose and scope.
This subpart establishes the methodology that OPM will use to determine benefit payable in connection with an election made under subpart D of this part.
§ 847.702
Lump-sum payments and refunds.
(a) Employee contributions with interest which are transferred to the Fund under subpart E of this part are included in any lump-sum credit or unexpended balance payable to the employee or the employee's survivors under subpart T of part 831 of this chapter or under part 843 of this chapter.
(b) Government contributions which are transferred to the Fund under subpart E of this part are not included in any lump-sum credit or unexpended balance and are not payable to the employee or the employee's survivors.
§ 847.703
Reductions in annuity.
The CSRS or FERS basic annuity of an employee or survivor who has elected retirement coverage under subpart D of this part is reduced in the following order—
(a) For age, if applicable, as provided under sections 8339(h) and 8415(f) of title 5, United States Code.
(b) For noncontributory service performed before October 1, 1982, if applicable, as provided under 5 U.S.C.A. 8339(i), note.
(c) For deficiency, as determined under subpart F of this part.
(d) To provide a survivor annuity to a spouse or former spouse, if applicable, as provided under sections 8339(j)(4) and 8419(a) of title 5, United States Code.
(e) Any other reductions which may apply.
§ 847.704
Maximum survivor annuity election.
The amount of the employee's benefit after reduction for any deficiency under § 847.608 is—
(a) For CSRS, the maximum amount that may be designated as the survivor base under section 8339 (j) or (k) to title 5, United States Code;
(b) For FERS, the employee annuity (for survivor benefit purposes) under sections 8416 through 8420 of title 5, United States Code.
§ 847.705
Cost-of-living adjustments.
Cost-of-living adjustments are applied to the rate payable to the retiree
or survivor, including the reduction for any deficiency described in § 847.608.

# Subpart H—Electing to Credit NAFI Service for CSRS and FERS Retirement Eligibility

# Source:
68 FR 2180, Jan. 16, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 847.801
What information is in this subpart?
This subpart contains OPM's regulations on the procedures, eligibility requirements, and time limits for elections under 5 U.S.C. 8332(b)(17) and 5 U.S.C. 8411(b)(6).
§ 847.802
Who may elect to use NAFI service to qualify for immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS?
CSRS and FERS employees may elect to credit NAFI service for retirement purposes under this subpart if:
(a) They separate for retirement on or after December 28, 2001;
(b) They do not otherwise qualify for immediate retirement; and
(c) They have enough otherwise creditable civilian service to qualify for deferred retirement.
§ 847.803
When do employees make the election to use their NAFI service to qualify for an immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS?
Employees about to retire must make their election to credit NAFI service under this subpart no later than the date of separation on which their retirement is based.
§ 847.804
How do employees make an election to use their NAFI service to qualify for an immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS?
Employees electing to credit NAFI service under this subpart must:
(a) Inform the NAFI retirement plan that they are electing to credit NAFI service for CSRS or FERS retirement eligibility;
(b) Document the election on a form prescribed by OPM; and
(c) Submit the election with their application for immediate retirement.
§ 847.805
What NAFI service can employees elect to credit toward retirement eligibility under CSRS or FERS?
(a) Employees may elect to credit under this subpart any NAFI service that isn't already creditable under 5 U.S.C. 8332(b)(16), or under 5 CFR part 847, subpart D.
(b) NAFI service used to qualify for an immediate annuity based on an election in paragraph (a) of this section cannot be credited in a NAFI retirement plan for any purpose including eligibility and calculations of NAFI benefits.
§ 847.806
How much NAFI service must employees elect to use to qualify for an immediate CSRS or FERS retirement?
(a) Employees must elect complete periods of NAFI service under this subpart.
(b) A complete period of NAFI service in paragraph (a) of this section consists of the period from the date of appointment with an NAFI employer to the date of termination.
§ 847.807
Do employees have to pay CSRS or FERS deposits for the NAFI service they use to qualify for immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS?
Employees are not required to pay CSRS or FERS deposits for the NAFI service they use to qualify for immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS. In fact, deposits cannot be made for any NAFI service employees elect to credit for immediate retirement under this subpart.
§ 847.808
Is money in the NAFI retirement fund covering NAFI service that an employee elects to use for immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS, transferred to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund?
Money in the NAFI retirement fund covering NAFI service that an employee elects to use for immediate retirement under CSRS or FERS under this subpart cannot be transferred to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
§ 847.809
What effect will NAFI service used to qualify for an immediate retirement have on the amount of the CSRS or FERS annuity?
The annuity of a CSRS or FERS employee who elects to credit NAFI service under this subpart will be reduced under the provisions outlined in subpart I of this part.

# Subpart I—Computing the Retirement Annuity for Employees Who Elect To Use NAFI Service To Qualify for an Immediate CSRS or FERS Retirement

# Source:
68 FR 2181, Jan. 16, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 847.901
What information is in this subpart?
This subpart contains OPM's regulations describing the computation of a CSRS or FERS retirement annuity when an employee elects to use NAFI service to qualify for immediate retirement under subpart H of this part.
§ 847.902
How does an election to credit NAFI service for immediate CSRS or FERS retirement under subpart H of this part affect the computation of the CSRS or FERS retirement annuity?
The retirement annuity of an employee who elects to use NAFI service to qualify for an immediate CSRS or FERS retirement benefit will be reduced to ensure the present value of the benefits payable will be actuarially equivalent to those that would have been payable if the employee had separated on the same date, but without credit for the NAFI service.
§ 847.903
How is the monthly reduction to the retirement annuity computed?
(a) The reduction equals:
(1) The difference in the present value of the immediate annuity with credit for NAFI service and the deferred annuity without credit for NAFI service, divided by
(2) The present value factor for the retiree's attained age (in full years) at the time of retirement.
(b) The reduction computed in paragraph (a) of this section is rounded to the next higher dollar.
§ 847.904
What are Present Value Factors?
Present value factors have the same meaning in this subpart as they do in 5 CFR 847.602.
§ 847.905
How is the present value of an immediate annuity with credit for NAFI service computed?
(a) OPM will determine the present value of the immediate annuity including service credit for NAFI service by multiplying the monthly annuity rate as of the commencing date of the annuity by the present value factor for the retiree's age on that date.
(b) The monthly annuity rate under paragraph (a) of this section for CSRS and CSRS Offset retirees equals the monthly rate of annuity otherwise payable under 5 U.S.C. chapter 83, subchapter III, including all reductions provided under that subchapter.
(c) The monthly annuity rate under paragraph (a) of this section for FERS retirees equals the monthly rate of annuity otherwise payable under 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, subchapter II, including all reductions provided under that subchapter.
§ 847.906
How is the present value of a deferred annuity without credit for NAFI service computed?
(a) The present value of a deferred annuity equals the present value of the deferred annuity without credit for the NAFI service as of the deferred annuity date discounted for interest to that date.
(b) The present value of the deferred annuity without credit for the NAFI service as of the deferred annuity date equals the retiree's monthly annuity without credit for the NAFI service as of the deferred annuity date times the present value factor for the retiree's age on that date.
(c) The present value under paragraph (b) of this section is discounted for interest by dividing that amount by a factor equal to the value of the exponential function in which—
(1) The base is one plus the assumed interest rate under 5 CFR part 841, subpart D, on the commencing date of the retiree's immediate annuity, and
(2) The exponent is one-twelfth of the number of months between the commencing date of the retiree's immediate annuity and the deferred annuity date.
§ 847.907
How is the monthly annuity rate used to compute the present value of the deferred annuity without credit for NAFI service determined?
(a) The monthly annuity rate used to compute the present value of the deferred annuity under § 847.906 of this subpart for CSRS retirees equals the monthly annuity otherwise payable under 5 U.S.C. chapter 83, subchapter III, including all reductions provided under that subchapter.
(b) The monthly annuity rate used to compute the present value of the deferred annuity under § 847.906 of this subpart for CSRS Offset retirees is computed as described in paragraph (a) of this section, except that the reduction under section 5 U.S.C. 8349 does not apply.
(c) The monthly annuity rate used to compute the present value of the deferred annuity under § 847.906 of this subpart for FERS retirees equals the monthly rate of annuity otherwise payable under 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, subchapter II, including all reductions provided under that subchapter.
§ 847.908
If a retiree who elected to credit NAFI service under subpart H of this part earns a supplemental annuity under 5 CFR part 837, how will that supplemental annuity be computed?
This subpart does not affect supplemental annuities under 5 CFR part 837. Supplemental annuities will be computed in accordance with the provisions of that part.
§ 847.909
If a retiree who elected to credit NAFI service under subpart H of this part earns a right to a redetermined annuity under 5 CFR part 837, how will the redetermined annuity be computed?
(a) A redetermined annuity will not be subject to a reduction under this subpart if, on the date reemployment with the Government ends, the retiree qualifies for an immediate retirement without credit for the NAFI service.
(b) A redetermined annuity will be subject to a reduction under this subpart if, on the date reemployment with the Government ends, the retiree does not qualify for immediate retirement without credit for the NAFI service.
(c) The reduction in paragraph (b) of this section is computed as in accordance with § 847.903 of this subpart as if the individual was retiring for the first time.
§ 847.910
If a retiree who elected to credit NAFI service for CSRS immediate retirement returns to work for the Government under conditions that terminate the annuity, how will the retirement annuity be computed when the employee's service with the Government ends?
(a) If an individual whose annuity terminates upon reemployment with the Government elects to credit NAFI service under subpart B of this part to qualify for a new immediate retirement when the reemployment ends, the annuity will be subject to a reduction under this subpart.
(b) If an individual whose annuity terminates upon reemployment with the Government qualifies for a new immediate retirement when the reemployment ends without crediting NAFI service, the new annuity will not be subject to a reduction under this subpart.
(c) If an individual whose annuity terminates upon reemployment with the Government qualifies for a deferred annuity when the reemployment ends, the deferred annuity will not be subject to a reduction under this subpart.
(d) The reduction in paragraph (a) of this section is computed in accordance with § 847.903 of this subpart as if the individual was retiring for the first time.
§ 847.911
Is an employee who elects to credit NAFI service to qualify for an immediate FERS retirement under subpart H of this part eligible for an FERS annuity supplement under 5 CFR 842 subpart E?
An FERS Annuity Supplement is not payable to a retiree who elects to credit NAFI service under subpart H of this part.
§ 847.912
If an employee who elects to credit NAFI service under subpart H of this part elects a survivor annuity will the monthly survivor annuity rate be subject to reduction?
(a) The monthly survivor annuity benefit of an employee who elects to credit NAFI service under subpart H of this part will be subject to reduction.
(b) The reduction under paragraph (a) of this section equals:
(1) The difference in the present value of the initial survivor annuity generated from the immediate annuity computation with credit for NAFI service and the initial survivor annuity generated from the deferred annuity computation without credit for NAFI service, divided by
(2) The present value factor for the retiree's age (in full years) at the time of retirement.
(c) The present value of the survivor annuity generated from the immediate annuity with credit for NAFI service in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is computed under the provisions of § 847.905 of this subpart.
(d) The present value of the initial survivor annuity generated from the deferred annuity without credit for NAFI service in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is computed under the provisions of § 847.906 of this subpart.
(e) The ages of the employee as of the commencing date of the immediate retirement and the commencing date of the deferred retirement are used to compute the present value of the survivor benefits under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
Pt. 848

# PART 848—PHASED RETIREMENT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
848.101
Applicability and purpose.
848.102
Definitions.
848.103
Implementing directives.

# Subpart B—Entering Phased Retirement
848.201
Eligibility.
848.202
Working percentage and officially established hours for phased employment.
848.203
Application for phased retirement.
848.204
Effective date of phased employment and phased retirement annuity commencing date.
848.205
Effect of phased retirement.

# Subpart C—Returning to Regular Employment Status
848.301
Ending phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.
848.302
Effective date of end of phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.
848.303
Effect of ending phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.

# Subpart D—Entering Full Retirement Status
848.401
Application for full retirement status.
848.402
Commencing date of composite retirement annuity.

# Subpart E—Computation of Phased Retirement Annuity at Phased Retirement and Composite Retirement Annuity at Full Retirement
848.501
Computation of phased retirement annuity.
848.502
Computation of composite annuity at final retirement.
848.503
Cost-of-living adjustments.
848.503
Non-eligibility for annuity supplement.

# Subpart F—Opportunity of a Phased Retiree to Pay Deposit or Redeposit for Civilian or Military Service
848.601
Deposit for civilian service for which no retirement deductions were withheld and redeposit for civilian service for which retirement deductions were refunded to the individual.
848.602
Deposit for military service.

# Subpart G—Death Benefits
848.701
Death of a phased retiree during phased employment.
848.702
Death of an individual who has separated from phased employment and who dies before submitting an application for a composite retirement annuity.
848.703
Lump-sum credit.

# Subpart H—Reemployment After Separation From Phased Retirement Status
848.801
Reemployment of an individual who has separated from phased employment and who dies before submitting an application for a composite retirement annuity.

# Subpart I—Mentoring
848.901
Mentoring.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8461; 5 U.S.C. 8412a.

# Source:
79 FR 46632, Aug. 8, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 848.101
Applicability and purpose.
This subpart contains the regulations implementing provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412a authorizing phased retirement. This subpart establishes the eligibility requirements for making an election to enter phased retirement status, the procedures for making an election, the record-keeping requirements, and the methods to be used for certain computations not addressed elsewhere in parts 841-843 and 845.
§ 848.102
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Authorized agency official
means—
(1) For the executive branch agencies, the head of an Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105;
(2) For the legislative branch, the Secretary of the Senate, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the head of any other legislative branch agency;
(3) For the judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts;
(4) For the Postal Service, the Postmaster General;
(5) For any other independent establishment that is an entity of the Federal Government, the head of the establishment; or
(6) An official who is authorized to act for an official named in paragraphs (1)-(5) in the matter concerned.
Composite retirement annuity
means the annuity computed when a phased retiree attains full retirement status.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
Full retirement status
means that a phased retiree has ceased employment and is entitled, upon application, to a composite retirement annuity.
Full-time
means—
(1) An officially established recurring basic workweek consisting of 40 hours within the employee's administrative workweek (as established under § 610.111 of this chapter or similar authority); or
(2) An officially established recurring basic work requirement of 80 hours per biweekly pay period (as established for employees with a flexible or compressed work schedule under 5 U.S.C. chapter 61, subchapter II, or similar authority).
Phased employment
means the less-than-full-time employment of a phased retiree.
Phased retiree
means a retirement-eligible employee who—
(1) With the concurrence of an authorized agency official, enters phased retirement status; and
(2) Has not entered full retirement status;
Phased retirement annuity
means the annuity payable under 5 U.S.C. 8412a before full retirement.
Phased retirement percentage
means the percentage which, when added to the working percentage for a phased retiree, produces a sum of 100 percent.
Phased retirement period
means the period beginning on the date on which an individual becomes entitled to receive a phased retirement annuity and ending on the date on which the individual dies or separates from phased employment.
Phased retirement status
means that a phased retiree is concurrently employed in phased employment and eligible to receive a phased retirement annuity.
Working percentage
has the meaning given that term in § 848.202(a).
§ 848.103
Implementing directives.
The Director may prescribe, in the form he or she deems appropriate, such detailed procedures as are necessary to carry out the purpose of this subpart.

# Subpart B—Entering Phased Retirement
§ 848.201
Eligibility.
(a) A retirement-eligible employee, as defined in paragraphs (b) and (c), may elect to enter phased retirement status if the employee has been employed on a full-time basis for not less than the 3-year period ending on the effective date of phased retirement status under § 848.203.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a retirement-eligible employee means an employee who, if separated from the service, would meet the requirements for retirement under subsection (a) or (b) of 5 U.S.C. 8412.
(c) A retirement-eligible employee does not include—
(1) A member of the Capitol Police or Supreme Court Police, or an employee occupying a law enforcement officer, firefighter, nuclear materials courier, air traffic controller, or customs and border protection officer position, except a customs and border protection officer who is exempt from mandatory separation and retirement under 5 U.S.C. 8325 pursuant to section 535(e)(2)(A) of Division E of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008, Public Law 110-161;
(2) An individual eligible to retire under 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) or (e): or
(3) An employee covered by a special work schedule authority that does not allow for a regularly recurring part-time schedule, such as a firefighter covered by 5 U.S.C. 5545b or a nurse covered by 38 U.S.C. 7456 or 7456A.
§ 848.202
Working percentage and officially established hours for phased employment.
(a) For the purpose of this subpart,
working percentage
means the percentage of full-time equivalent employment equal to the quotient obtained by dividing—
(1) The number of officially established hours per pay period to be worked by a phased retiree, as described in paragraph (b) of this section; by
(2) The number of hours per pay period to be worked by an employee serving in a comparable position on a full-time basis.
(b) The number of officially established hours per pay period to be worked by an employee in phased retirement status must equal one-half the number of hours the phased retiree would have been scheduled to work had the phased retiree remained in a full-time work schedule and not elected to enter phased retirement status. These hours make up the officially established part-time work schedule of the phased retiree and exclude any additional hours worked under § 848.205(j).
§ 848.203
Application for phased retirement.
(a) To elect to enter phased retirement status, a retirement-eligible employee covered by § 848.201 must—
(1) Submit to an authorized agency official a written and signed request to enter phased employment, on a form prescribed by OPM;
(2) Obtain the signed written approval of an authorized agency official to enter phased employment; and
(3) File an application for phased retirement, in accordance with § 841.202.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an applicant for phased retirement may withdraw his or her application any time before the election becomes effective, but not thereafter.
(c) An applicant for phased retirement may not withdraw his or her application after OPM has received a certified copy of a court order (under part 581 or part 838 of this chapter) affecting the benefits.
(d)(1) An employee and an agency approving official may agree to a time limit to the employee's period of phased employment as a condition of approval of the employee's request to enter phased employment and phased retirement, or by mutual agreement after the employee enters phased employment status.
(2) To enter into such an agreement, the employee and the approving official must complete a written and signed agreement.
(3) The written agreement must include the following:
(i) The date the employee's period of phased employment will terminate;
(ii) A statement that the employee can request the approving official's
permission to return to regular employment status at any time or within three days after the expiration of the agreement as provided in § 848.301. The agreement must also explain how returning to regular employment status would affect the employee, as described in §§ 848.301-302.
(iii) A statement that the employee has a right to elect to fully retire at any time as provided in § 848.401;
(iv) A statement that the employee may accept a new appointment at another agency, with or without the new agency's approval of phased employment, at any time before the expiration of the agreement or within 3 days of the expiration of the agreement; the agreement must also explain how accepting an appointment at a new agency as a regular employee would affect the employee, as described in §§ 848.301-302;
(v) An explanation that when the agreed term of phased employment ends, the employee will be separated from employment and that such separation will be considered voluntary, based on the written agreement; and
(vi) An explanation that if the employee is separated from phased employment and is not employed within 3 days (i.e., the employee has a break in service of greater than 3 days), the employee will be deemed to have elected full retirement.
(4) The agency approving official and the employee may rescind an existing agreement, or enter into a new agreement to extend or reduce the term of phased employment agreed to in an existing agreement, by entering into a new written agreement meeting the requirements of this paragraph, before the expiration of the agreement currently in effect.
(e) An agency must establish written criteria that will be used to approve or deny applications for phased retirement before approving or denying applications for phased retirement.
§ 848.204
Effective date of phased employment and phased retirement annuity commencing date.
(a) Phased employment is effective the first day of the first pay period beginning after phased employment is approved by an authorized agency official under § 848.203(a), or the first day of a later pay period specified by the employee with the authorized agency official's concurrence.
(b) The commencing date of a phased retirement annuity (i.e., the beginning date of the phased retirement period) is the first day of the first pay period beginning after phased employment is approved by an authorized agency official under § 848.203(a), or the first day of a later pay period specified by the employee with the authorized agency official's concurrence.
§ 848.205
Effect of phased retirement.
(a)(1) A phased retiree is deemed to be a full-time employee for the purpose of 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 and 5 CFR part 890 (related to health benefits), as required by 5 U.S.C. 8412a(i). The normal rules governing health benefits premiums for part-time employees in 5 U.S.C. 8906(b)(3) do not apply.
(2) A phased retiree is deemed to be receiving basic pay at the rate applicable to a full-time employee holding the same position for the purpose of determining a phased retiree's annual rate of basic pay used in calculating premiums (employee withholdings and agency contributions) and benefits under 5 U.S.C. chapter 87 and 5 CFR part 870 (dealing with life insurance), as required by 5 U.S.C. 8412a(o). The deemed full-time schedule will consist of five 8-hour workdays each workweek, resulting in a 40-hour workweek. Only basic pay for hours within the deemed full-time schedule will be considered, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8412a(o) and the definition of “full-time” in § 848.102. Any premium pay creditable as basic pay for life insurance purposes under 5 CFR 870.204 for overtime work or hours outside the full-time schedule that an employee was receiving before phased retirement, such as standby duty pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) or customs officer overtime pay under 19 U.S.C. 267(a), may not be considered in determining a phased retiree's deemed annual rate of basic pay under this paragraph.
(b) A phased retiree may not be appointed to more than one position at the same time.
(c) A phased retiree may move to another position in the agency or another
agency during phased retirement status only if the change would not result in a change in the working percentage. To move to another agency during phased retirement status and continue phased employment and phased retirement status, the phased retiree must submit a written and signed request and obtain the signed written approval, in accordance with § 848.203(a)(1) and (2), of the authorized agency official to which the phased retiree is moving. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 848.204, if the authorized agency official approves the request, the phased retiree's phased employment and phased retirement status will continue without interruption at the agency to which the phased retiree moves. If the authorized agency official at the agency to which the phased retiree moves does not approve the request, phased employment and phased retirement status terminates in accordance with § 848.302(b).
(d) A phased retiree may be detailed to another position or agency if the working percentage of the position to which detailed is the same as the working percentage of the phased retiree's position of record.
(e) A retirement-eligible employee who makes an election under this subpart may not elect an alternative annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8420a.
(f) If the employee's election of phased retirement status becomes effective, the employee is barred from electing phased retirement status again. Ending phased retirement status or entering full retirement status does not create a new opportunity for the individual to elect phased retirement status.
(g) With the exception of § 841.803(f), a phased retiree is deemed to be an annuitant for the purpose of subpart H of 5 CFR part 841.
(h) A phased retiree is deemed to be an annuitant for the purpose of subpart J of 5 CFR part 841.
(i) Except as otherwise expressly provided by law or regulation, a phased retiree is treated as any other employee on a part-time tour of duty for all other purposes.
(j)(1) A phased retiree may not be assigned hours of work in excess of the officially established part-time schedule (reflecting the working percentage), except under the conditions specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
(2) An authorized agency official may order or approve a phased retiree to perform hours of work in excess of the officially established part-time schedule only in rare and exceptional circumstances meeting all of the following conditions:
(i) The work is necessary to respond to an emergency posing a significant, immediate, and direct threat to life or property;
(ii) The authorized agency official determines that no other qualified employee is available to perform the required work;
(iii) The phased retiree is relieved from performing excess work as soon as reasonably possible (e.g., by management assignment of work to other employees); and
(iv) When an emergency situation can be anticipated in advance, agency management made advance plans to minimize any necessary excess work by the phased retiree.
(3) Employing agencies must inform each phased retiree and his or her supervisor of—
(i) The limitations on hours worked in excess of the officially established part-time schedule;
(ii) The requirement to maintain records documenting that the exceptions met all required conditions;
(iii) The fact that, by law and regulation, any basic pay received for hours outside the employee's officially established part-time work schedule (as described in § 848.202(a)(1) and (b)) is subject to retirement deductions and agency contributions, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8412a(d), but is not used in computing retirement benefits; and
(iv) The fact that, by law and regulation, any premium pay received for overtime work or hours outside the full-time schedule that would otherwise be basic pay for retirement, such as customs officer overtime pay under 19 U.S.C. 267(a), will not be subject to retirement deductions or agency contributions, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8412a(d), and that any such premium pay received will not be included in computing retirement benefits.
(4) Employing agencies must maintain records documenting that exceptions granted under paragraph (j)(2) of this section meet the required conditions. These records must be retained for at least 6 years and be readily available to auditors. OPM may require periodic agency reports on the granting of exceptions and of any audit findings.
(5) If OPM finds that an agency (or subcomponent) is granting exceptions that are not in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (j), OPM may administratively withdraw the agency's (or subcomponent's) authority to grant exceptions and require OPM approval of any exception.
(6) If OPM finds that a phased retiree has been working a significant amount of excess hours beyond the officially established part-time schedule to the degree that the intent of the phased retirement law is being undermined, OPM may require that the agency end the individual's phased retirement by unilateral action, notwithstanding the normally established methods of ending phased retirement. This finding does not need to be based on a determination that the granted exceptions failed to meet the required conditions in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. With the ending of an individual's phased retirement, that individual must be returned to regular employment status on the same basis as a person making an election under § 848.301—unless that individual elects to fully retire as provided under § 848.401.
(7) A phased retiree must be compensated for excess hours of work in accordance with the normally applicable pay rules.
(8) Any premium pay received for overtime work or hours outside the full-time schedule that would otherwise be basic pay for retirement, such as customs officer overtime pay under 19 U.S.C. 267(a), is not subject to retirement deductions or agency contributions, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8412a(d).

# Subpart C—Returning to Regular Employment Status
§ 848.301
Ending phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.
(a)
Election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.
(1) A phased retiree may elect, with the permission of an authorized agency official, to end phased employment at any time to return to regular employment status. The election is deemed to meet the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 8412a(g) regardless of the employee's work schedule. The employee is not subject to any working percentage limitation (i.e., full-time, 50 percent of full-time, or any other working percentage) upon electing to end phased retirement status.
(2) To elect to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status, a phased retiree must—
(i) Submit to an authorized agency official, on a form prescribed by OPM, a written and signed request to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status; and
(ii) Obtain the signed written approval of an authorized agency official for the request.
(3) An employee may cancel an approved election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status by submitting a signed written request to the agency and obtaining the approval of an authorized agency official before the effective date of return to regular employment status.
(4) The employing agency must notify OPM that the employee's phased retirement status has ended by submitting to OPM a copy of the completed election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status within 15 days of its approval.
(b)
Mandated return to regular employment status.
A phased retiree may be returned to regular employment status as provided under § 848.205(j)(6).
(c)
Bar on reelection of phased retirement.
Once an election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status is effective, the employee may not reelect phased retirement status.
§ 848.302
Effective date of end of phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, if a request to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status is approved by an authorized agency official under § 848.301 on any date on or after the first day of a month through the fifteenth day of a month, the phased retiree's resumption of regular employment status is effective the first day of the first full pay period of the month following the month in which the election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status is approved.
(2) If a request to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status is approved by an authorized agency official under § 848.301 on any date on or after the sixteenth day of a month through the last day of a month, the phased retiree's resumption of regular employment status is effective on the first day of the first full pay period of the second month following the month in which the election to end phased retirement status to return to regular employment status is approved.
(3) The phased retirement annuity terminates on the date determined under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
(b) When a phased retiree moves from the agency that approved his or her phased employment and phased retirement status to another agency and the authorizing official at the agency to which the phased retiree moves does not approve a continuation of phased employment and phased retirement status, phased employment and phased retirement status terminates when employment ends at the current employing agency.
§ 848.303
Effect of ending phased retirement status to return to regular employment status.
(a) After phased retirement status ends under § 848.302, the employee's rights under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, are determined based on the law in effect at the time of any subsequent separation from service.
(b) After an individual ends phased retirement status to return to regular employment status, for the purposes of subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, at the time of the subsequent separation from service, the phased retirement period will be treated as if it had been a period of part-time employment with the work schedule described in § 848.202(a)(1) and (b). The part-time proration adjustment for the phased retirement period will be based upon the individual's officially established part-time work schedule, with no credit for extra hours worked. In determining the individual's deemed rate of basic pay during the phased retirement period, only basic pay for hours within the individual's officially established part-time work schedule may be considered. No pay received for other hours during the phased retirement period may be included as part of basic pay for the purpose of computing retirement benefits, notwithstanding the normally applicable rules.
(c) The restrictions in §§ 848.601 and 848.602 regarding when an individual must complete a deposit for civilian service, a redeposit for civilian service, or a deposit for military service do not apply when a phased retiree ends phased retirement status to return to regular employment status under this section.

# Subpart D—Entering Full Retirement Status
§ 848.401
Application for full retirement status.
(a)
Election of full retirement.
(1) A phased retiree may elect to enter full retirement status at any time by submitting to OPM an application for full retirement in accordance with § 841.202. This includes an election made under § 848.205(j)(6) in lieu of a mandated return to regular employment status. Upon making such an election, a phased retiree is entitled to a composite retirement annuity.
(2) A phased retiree may cancel an election of full retirement status and withdraw an application for full retirement by submitting a signed written request with the agency and obtaining the approval of an authorized agency
official before the commencing date of the composite retirement annuity.
(b)
Deemed election of full retirement.
A phased retiree who is separated from phased employment for more than 3 days enters full retirement status. The individual's composite retirement annuity will begin to accrue on the commencing date of the composite annuity, as provided in § 848.402, and payment will be made after he or she submits an application in accordance with § 841.202 for the composite retirement annuity.
(c)
Survivor election provisions.
An individual applying for full retirement status under this section is subject to the survivor election provisions of subpart F of 5 CFR 842.
§ 848.402
Commencing date of composite retirement annuity.
(a) The commencing date of the composite retirement annuity of a phased retiree who enters full retirement status is the day after separation.
(b) A phased retirement annuity terminates upon separation from service.

# Subpart E—Computation of Phased Retirement Annuity at Phased Retirement and Composite Retirement Annuity at Full Retirement
§ 848.501
Computation of phased retirement annuity.
A phased retiree's phased retirement annuity equals the product obtained by multiplying (1) the amount of annuity computed under 5 U.S.C. 8415, excluding reduction for survivor annuity, that would have been payable to the phased retiree if, on the date on which the phased retiree enters phased retirement, the phased retiree had separated from service and retired under 5 U.S.C. 8412(a) or (b), by (2) the phased retirement percentage for the phased retiree.
§ 848.502
Computation of composite annuity at final retirement.
(a) Subject to the adjustment described in paragraph (c) of this section, a phased retiree's composite retirement annuity at final retirement equals the sum obtained by adding—
(1) The amount computed under § 848.501(a), increased by cost-of-living adjustments under § 848.503(c); and
(2) The “fully retired phased component” computed under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)(1) Subject to the requirements described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, a “fully retired phased component” equals the product obtained by multiplying—
(i) The working percentage; by
(ii) The amount of an annuity computed under 5 U.S.C. 8415 that would have been payable at the time of full retirement if the individual had not elected phased retirement status and as if the individual was employed on a full-time basis in the position occupied during the phased retirement period and before any reduction for survivor annuity.
(2) In applying paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the individual must be deemed to have a full-time schedule during the period of phased retirement. The deemed full-time schedule will consist of five 8-hour workdays each workweek, resulting in a 40-hour workweek. In determining the individual's deemed rate of basic pay during phased retirement, only basic pay for hours within the deemed full-time schedule will be considered, consistent with the definition of “full-time” in § 848.102. Any premium pay creditable as basic pay for retirement purposes for overtime work or hours outside the full-time schedule that an employee was receiving before phased retirement, such as standby duty pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) or customs officer overtime pay under 19 U.S.C. 267(a), may not be considered in determining a phased retiree's deemed rate of basic pay during phased retirement.
(3) In computing the annuity amount under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the amount of unused sick leave credit equals the result of dividing the applicable percentage under 5 U.S.C. 8415(l) of the days of unused sick leave to the employee's credit at separation for full retirement, by the working percentage.
(c) The composite retirement annuity computed under paragraph (a) of this section is adjusted by applying any reduction for any survivor annuity benefit.
§ 848.503
Cost-of-living adjustments.
(a) The phased retirement annuity under § 848.501 is increased by cost-of-living adjustments in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8462.
(b) A composite retirement annuity under § 848.502 is increased by cost-of-living adjustments in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8462, except that 5 U.S.C. 8462(c)(1) does not apply.
(c)(1) For the purpose of computing the amount of phased retirement annuity used in the computation under § 848.502(a)(1), the initial cost-of-living adjustment applied is prorated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8462(c)(1).
(2) If the individual enters full retirement status on the same day as the effective date of a cost-of-living adjustment (usually December 1st), that cost-of-living adjustment, if applicable under 5 U.S.C. 8462, is applied to increase the phased retirement annuity used in the computation under § 848.502(a)(1).
§ 848.504
Non-eligibility for annuity supplement.
A phased retiree is not eligible to receive an annuity supplement under 5 U.S.C. 8421.

# Subpart F—Opportunity of a Phased Retiree To Pay Deposit or Redeposit for Civilian or Military Service
§ 848.601
Deposit for civilian service for which no retirement deductions were withheld and redeposit for civilian service for which retirement deductions were refunded to the individual.
Any deposit under § 842.304 and § 842.305, or redeposit under 5 U.S.C. 8422(i), that an employee entering phased retirement wishes to make for civilian service must be paid within 30 days from the date OPM notifies the employee of the amount of the deposit or redeposit, during the processing of the employee's application for phased retirement. The deposit or redeposit amount will include interest, computed to the effective date of phased retirement. No deposit or redeposit payment may be made by the phased retiree when entering full retirement status.
§ 848.602
Deposit for military service.
(a) A phased retiree who wishes to make a military service credit deposit under § 842.307 for military service performed prior to entering phased retirement status must complete such a deposit no later than the day before the effective date of his or her phased employment and the commencing date of the phased retirement annuity. A military service credit deposit for military service performed prior to an individual's entry into phased retirement status cannot be made after the effective date of phased employment and the commencing date of phased retirement annuity.
(b) A phased retiree who wishes to make a military service credit deposit under § 842.307 for military service performed after the effective date of phased employment and the commencing date of phased retirement annuity and before the effective date of the composite retirement annuity (e.g., due to the call-up of the employee for active military service) must complete such a deposit no later than the day before the effective date of his or her composite retirement annuity.

# Subpart G—Death Benefits
§ 848.701
Death of phased retiree during phased employment.
(a) For the purpose of 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, subchapter IV—
(1) The death of a phased retiree is deemed to be a death in service of an employee; and
(2) The phased retirement period is deemed to have been a period of part-time employment with the work schedule described in § 848.202(a)(1) and (b) for the purpose of determining survivor benefits. The part-time proration adjustment for the phased retirement period will be based upon the employee's officially established part-time work schedule, with no credit for extra hours worked. In determining the employee's deemed rate of basic pay during the phased retirement period, only basic pay for hours within the employee's officially established part-time work schedule may be considered. No pay received for other hours during the
phased retirement period may be included as part of basic pay for the purpose of computing retirement benefits, notwithstanding the normally applicable rules.
§ 848.702
Death of an individual who has separated from phased employment and who dies before submitting an application for a composite retirement annuity.
(a) For the purpose of 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, subchapter IV, an individual who dies after separating from phased employment and before submitting an application for composite retirement annuity is deemed to have filed an application for composite retirement annuity with OPM.
(b) The composite retirement annuity of a phased retiree described in paragraph (a) of this section is deemed to have accrued from the day after separation through the date of death. Any unpaid composite annuity accrued during such period, minus any phased retirement annuity paid during that period, will be paid as a lump-sum payment of accrued and unpaid annuity, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8424(d) and (g).
§ 848.703
Lump-sum credit.
If an individual performs phased employment, the lump-sum credit as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8401(19) will be reduced by any annuity that is paid or accrued during phased employment.

# Subpart H—Reemployment After Separation from Phased Retirement Status
§ 848.801
Reemployment of an individual who has separated from phased employment and who dies before submitting an application for a composite retirement annuity.
A phased retiree who has been separated from employment for more than 3 days and who has entered full retirement status, but who has not submitted an application for composite retirement annuity, is deemed to be an annuitant receiving annuity from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund during any period of employment in an appointive or elective position in the Federal Government.

# Subpart I—Mentoring
§ 848.901
Mentoring.
(a) A phased retiree, other than an employee of the United States Postal Service, must spend at least 20 percent of his or her working hours in mentoring activities as defined by an authorized agency official. For purposes of this section, mentoring need not be limited to mentoring of an employee who is expected to assume the phased retiree's duties when the phased retiree fully retires.
(b) An authorized agency official may waive the requirement under paragraph (a) of this section in the event of an emergency or other unusual circumstances (including active duty in the armed forces) that, in the authorized agency official's discretion, would make it impracticable for a phased retiree to fulfill the mentoring requirement.
Pt. 849

# PART 849—REPRESENTATIVE PAYEES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
849.101
Applicability and purpose.
849.102
Definitions.
849.103
Implementing directives.

# Subpart B—Determining Whether or Not Representative Payment Is Appropriate
849.201
When to make payment to a representative payee.
849.202
Payment of annuity while finding a suitable representative payee.
849.203
Information considered in determining whether to appoint a representative payee.

# Subpart C—Selection of a Representative Payee
849.301
Information considered in selecting a representative payee.
849.302
Order of preference in selecting a representative payee.
849.303
Individuals who may not serve as a representative payee.
849.304
Selecting a representative payee.
849.305
Notice of determination to select a representative payee.

# Subpart D—Responsibility and Accountability of a Representative Payee
849.401
Responsibilities of a representative payee.
849.402
Use of payments.
849.403
Accountability of a representative payee.

# Subpart E—Misuse of Annuity by a Representative Payee
849.501
Misuse of benefits by a representative payee.
849.502
Liability for misused funds.

# Subpart F—Changes to the Representative Payee
849.601
When a new representative payee will be selected.
849.602
When representative payments will be stopped.
849.603
Transfer of conserved or accumulated funds.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8331; 5 U.S.C. 8345(e)-(f); 5 U.S.C. 8345a; 5 U.S.C. 8401; 5 U.S.C. 8461; 5 U.S.C. 8466(c)-(d); 5 U.S.C. 8466a.

# Source:
86 FR 57012, Oct. 14, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 849.101
Applicability and purpose.
This part contains regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to implement the provisions 5 U.S.C. 8345(e)-(f), 8345a, 8466(c)-(d), and 8466a regarding payment of an annuity to a representative payee. This part establishes the criteria OPM uses to determine if representative payments are appropriate, the information OPM uses to select a representative payee, the responsibilities of a representative payee, the accountability of a representative payee, the limitations on the appointment of a representative payee, and the definition of and penalty for misuse of benefits by the representative payee.
§ 849.102
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agency
means the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
CSRS
means the Civil Service Retirement System as described in subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
FERS
means the Federal Employees' Retirement System as described in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Misuse of benefits
means the embezzlement or conversion of all or any part of the amount received by the representative payee for a use other than for the use and benefit of the minor or individual on whose behalf such payments were received.
Physician
and
practitioner
have the same meaning given these terms in § 339.104 of this chapter.
Representative payee
means a person, who is at least 18 years of age, or an organization designated to receive annuity payments on behalf of a minor or an individual mentally incompetent or under other legal disability.
§ 849.103
Implementing directives.
The Director may prescribe, in the form he or she deems appropriate, such detailed procedures as are necessary to carry out the purpose of this part.

# Subpart B—Determining Whether or Not Representative Payment is Appropriate
§ 849.201
When to make payment to a representative payee.
The agency will make payment to a representative payee—
(a) If payments are due to a minor under the age of 18; or
(b) If payments are due to an annuitant or survivor who is mentally incompetent or under other legal disability; or
(c) If payments are due to an annuitant when the annuitant is physically or mentally incapable of managing or directing the management of his or her benefit.
§ 849.202
Payment of annuity while finding a suitable representative payee.
(a) Annuity payments will be made directly to the annuitant or survivor annuitant while a suitable representative payee is located, unless the agency determines that direct payment would cause substantial harm to the individual.
(b) Substantial harm exists if both of the following conditions exist:
(1) Direct payment of benefits can be expected to cause serious physical or mental injury to the individual; and
(2) The potential effect of the injury outweighs the effect of having no income to meet the basic needs of the individual.
(c) If the agency determines that direct payment of benefits would cause substantial harm to the annuitant, annuity payments may be deferred (in the case of initial entitlement to benefits) or suspended (in the case of existing entitlement to benefits) until such time as a representative payee is appointed.
(d) Annuity payments will commence or resume as soon as practicable and will include all retroactive payments due to be paid.
§ 849.203
Information considered in determining whether to appoint a representative payee.
In determining whether to appoint a representative payee, the agency will consider the following information:
(a)
Evidence of legal guardianship or other court determinations.
Evidence of the appointment of a legal guardian or other person legally vested with the care of the individual or estate of an incompetent or a minor shall be a certified copy of the court's determination.
(b)
Medical evidence.
The agency will use medical evidence to help determine whether an annuitant is capable of managing or directing the management of benefit payments. For example, a statement by a physician or other licensed health practitioner, based upon his or her recent examination of the annuitant and his or her knowledge of the annuitant's present condition, will be used in the agency's determination, if it includes information concerning the nature of the annuitant's illness or disability, the annuitant's chances for recovery, and the opinion of the physician or other licensed health practitioner as to whether the annuitant is able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments.
(c)
Other evidence.
The agency may also require statements of relatives, friends, or other people in a position to know and observe the annuitant, which contain information helpful to the agency in deciding whether the annuitant is able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments.

# Subpart C—Selection of a Representative Payee
§ 849.301
Information considered in selecting a representative payee.
The goal in selecting a payee is to select the person, organization, or institution that will best serve the interest of the annuitant. In making the selection, the agency considers—
(a) The age of the representative payee applicant. An individual must be over the age of 18 to serve as a representative payee, except as listed in § 849.303(a);
(b) The relationship of the person, organization, or institution to the annuitant;
(c) Legal authority, in the form of conservatorship or guardianship, that the person, organization, or institution has to act on behalf of the annuitant;
(d) The amount of concern that the person or organization shows in the annuitant;
(e) Whether the potential payee has custody of the annuitant;
(f) Whether the potential payee is in a position to know of and look after the needs of the annuitant;
(g) Whether the representative payee applicant is currently serving, or has previously served, as a representative payee for other annuitants; and
(h) The potential representative payee's criminal history.
§ 849.302
Order of preference in selecting a representative payee.
As a guide in selecting a representative payee, categories of preferred payees are set out in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The primary concern of the agency is to select the payee who will best serve the annuitant's interest. The preferences, in descending order of importance, are:
(a) A legal conservator, guardian, spouse, or other relative who has custody or guardianship of the annuitant or who demonstrates strong concern for the personal welfare of the annuitant;
(b) A friend or neighbor who has custody or guardianship of the annuitant
or demonstrates strong concern for the personal welfare of the annuitant;
(c) A public or nonprofit agency or institution having custody or guardianship of the annuitant;
(d) A private institution operated for profit and licensed under State law, which has custody or guardianship of the annuitant; and
(e) Persons other than those listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section who are qualified to carry out the responsibilities of a representative payee and who are able and willing to serve as a payee for an annuitant;
e.g.,
members of community groups or organizations who volunteer to serve as representative payee for an annuitant.
§ 849.303
Individuals who may not serve as a representative payee.
A representative payee applicant may not serve as a representative payee if he or she:
(a) Is under the age of 18, unless he or she is the custodial parent of the minor child applying for or receiving the annuity;
(b) Is found by a court to be incompetent or receives benefits under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act through a representative payee or receives a retirement annuity pursuant to CSRS or FERS through a representative payee;
(c) Has previously served as a representative payee and has been found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have misused benefits;
(d) Has been convicted of a violation of:
(1) 5 U.S.C. 8345a or 8466a;
(2) Section 208 or 1632 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 408, 1383a); or
(3) 38 U.S.C 6101; or
(e) Has been convicted of an offense resulting in imprisonment for more than one year. The agency may make exception to the prohibition in this paragraph (e) if the nature of the conviction is such that selection of the applicant poses no risk to the annuitant and the exception is in the best interest of the annuitant.
§ 849.304
Selecting a representative payee.
Before selecting an individual or organization to serve as a representative payee, the agency will conduct an investigation. The investigation will:
(a) Require the applicant to submit documented proof of identity.
(b) Verify the applicant's social security number.
(c) Conduct a background check on the applicant to determine if the applicant has been convicted of any crimes as defined in § 849.303(d) or (e).
(d) Determine if the applicant has previously served as a representative payee and if any previous appointments as representative payee were revoked or terminated due to misuse.
§ 849.305
Notice of the determination to select a representative payee.
(a) If the agency determines that the annuitant requires a representative payee due to mental incompetence or other legal disability or is physically or mentally unable to manage or direct the management of his or her annuity payments, the agency will issue a written decision to the annuitant. The decision will include a statement of the findings and determinations; specifically, the individual or organization named as the representative payee, and an explanation of the right to appeal the decision under §§ 831.110 and 841.307 of this chapter. If the annuitant appeals the decision, the agency will continue to make direct payments to the annuitant until the due process rights have been exhausted.
(b) A decision by the agency to
not
select an individual or organization as a representative payee is not subject to the due process procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 8347(d) and 8461(e).

# Subpart D—Responsibility and Accountability of a Representative Payee
§ 849.401
Responsibilities of a representative payee.
(a) A representative payee shall, subject to review by the agency and subject to such requirements as it may periodically prescribe, apply the payments made on behalf of the annuitant only for the use and benefit of such annuitant, and in a manner or purpose that is in the best interest of the annuitant.
(b) A representative payee shall notify the agency of any event that will affect the amount of benefits the annuitant receives or the right of the annuitant to receive benefits.
(c) A representative payee shall notify the agency of any change in circumstances that would affect performance of the payee's responsibilities.
(d) A representative payee shall keep the annuity paid to him or her on behalf of the annuitant separate from his or her own money in an account that shows that the annuitant is still the owner of the funds. The applicant must show proof of this account when applying to be the representative payee and use this account for direct deposit. Exceptions to this paragraph (d) are joint accounts for spouses, when one spouse applies to be representative payee for the other spouse and they already have an existing joint account.
(e) Any interest earned on the annuity will be the annuitant's property.
(f) A representative payee shall respond to requests, regarding the use of annuity payments, from OPM within a specified period of time.
§ 849.402
Use of payments.
(a)
Current maintenance.
Payments certified to a representative payee on behalf of an annuitant shall be considered as having been applied for the use and benefit of the annuitant when they are used for the annuitant's current maintenance. Current maintenance includes costs incurred in obtaining food, shelter, clothing, medical care, and personal comfort items.
(b)
Institutional care.
If an annuitant is receiving care in a Federal, state, or private institution because of mental or physical incapacity, current maintenance includes the customary charges made by the institution in providing care and maintenance, as well as expenditures for those items which will aid in the annuitant's recovery or release from the institution or expenses for personal needs which will improve the annuitant's conditions while in the institution.
(c)
Support of legal dependents.
If the current maintenance needs of the annuitant are met, the representative payee may use part of the payments for the support of the annuitant's legally dependent spouse, child, and/or parent.
(d)
Claims of creditors.
A representative payee may satisfy debts to creditors out of present benefit payments only if the current and reasonably foreseeable needs of the annuitant are met.
(e)
Conservation and investment.
After the representative payee has used the annuity payments consistent with the rules in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, any remaining annuity shall be conserved or invested on behalf of the annuitant. Any investment must show clearly that the representative payee holds the property in trust for the annuitant.
§ 849.403
Accountability of a representative payee.
(a) An individual, or institution, to whom payments are made as representative payee on behalf of an annuitant is accountable for the use of the payments and shall submit a written report in such form and at such times as the agency may require, accounting for the payments certified to him or her on behalf of the annuitant.
(b) If, however, such payee is a court-appointed fiduciary and, as such, is required to make an annual accounting to the court, a true copy of each such account filed with the court may be submitted in lieu of the accounting form prescribed by the agency.
(c) If any representative payee fails to submit the required accounting within the specified period of time after it is requested, no further payments shall be made to the representative payee on behalf of the annuitant unless for good cause shown, the default of the representative payee is excused by the agency and the required accounting is thereafter submitted.
(d) At any time after the agency has selected a representative payee, the agency may ask such payee to submit information showing a continuing relationship to the annuitant and a continuing responsibility for the care of the annuitant. If the representative payee does not give the agency the requested information within the specified period of time, the agency may stop paying such payee unless the agency determines that the payee had a good reason for not complying with
the request, and the agency receives the information requested.

# Subpart E—Misuse of Annuity by a Representative Payee
§ 849.501
Misuse of benefits by a representative payee.
(a) It is unlawful for a representative payee to misuse the payments received on behalf of an annuitant. For purposes of this subpart, misuse of benefits by a representative payee occurs in any case in which the representative payee receives payment on behalf of an annuitant and embezzles or converts such payment, or any part thereof, to a use other than for the use and benefit of the annuitant.
(b) The penalty for a representative payee found to be in violation of paragraph (a) of this section is a fine, imprisonment for not more than 5 years, or both.
(c) If the agency determines that a representative payee has misused any payments as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the agency will promptly revoke the certification for payment of benefits to the representative payee, and will make payment to an alternative representative payee or, if the interest of the annuitant would be served thereby, to the annuitant.
(d) The agency will make the annuitant whole by repaying any annuity that was misused by the representative payee once the misused benefits have been repaid to the agency by the representative payee.
§ 849.502
Liability for misused funds.
(a) A representative payee who misuses benefits, as determined in § 849.501(a), is responsible for repayment of the misused benefits.
(b) OPM will seek restitution from the former representative payee.

# Subpart F—Changes of the Representative Payee
§ 849.601
When a new representative payee will be selected.
(a) When the agency learns that the interests of the annuitant are not served by continuing payment to the present representative payee or that the present representative payee is no longer able or willing to carry out the payee responsibilities, the agency will undertake to find a new representative payee.
(b) The agency will select a new representative payee if the agency finds a preferred payee or if the present payee:
(1) Has been found by the agency or a court of competent jurisdiction to have misused the benefits;
(2) Has not used the benefit payments on the annuitant's behalf in accordance with the rules in this part;
(3) Has not carried out the other responsibilities described in this subpart;
(4) Dies;
(5) No longer wishes to be the representative payee;
(6) Is unable to manage the benefit payments; or
(7) Fails to cooperate, within a reasonable time, in providing evidence, accounting, or other information requested by the agency.
(c) The agency may suspend payment as explained in § 849.202(c) if we determine that making direct payment to the annuitant would cause substantial harm. Payments, including all retroactive amounts due, will resume once a representative payee is located.
§ 849.602
When representative payments will be stopped.
If an annuitant demonstrates that he or she is mentally and physically able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments, the agency will make direct payment to the annuitant. Information which the annuitant may give to the agency to support his or her request for direct payment includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) A physician's or other licensed health practitioner's statement regarding the annuitant's condition, or a statement by a medical officer of the institution where the annuitant is or was confined, showing that the annuitant is able to manage or direct the management of his or her funds;
(b) A certified copy of a court order restoring the annuitant's rights in a case where an annuitant was adjudged legally incompetent; or
(c) Other evidence which establishes the annuitant's ability to manage or direct the management of benefits.
§ 849.603
Transfer of conserved or accumulated funds.
A representative payee who has conserved or invested annuity payments shall transfer these funds and any interest earned from the invested funds to either a successor payee, to the annuitant, or to the agency as we will specify. If the funds and the earned interest are returned to the agency, we will recertify them to the successor representative payee or to the annuitant.
Pt. 850

# PART 850—ELECTRONIC RETIREMENT PROCESSING

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
850.101
Purpose and scope.
850.102
Applicability.
850.103
Definitions.
850.104
Implementing directives.
850.105
Agency responsibility.
850.106
Electronic signatures.

# Subpart B—Applications for Benefits; Elections
850.201
Applications for benefits.
850.202
Survivor elections.
850.203
Other elections.

# Subpart C—Records
850.301
Electronic records; other acceptable records.
850.302
Record maintenance.
850.303
Return of personal documents.

# Subpart D—Submission of Law Enforcement, Firefighter, and Nuclear Materials Courier Retirement Coverage Notices
850.401
Electronic notice of coverage determination.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8347; 5 U.S.C. 8461; 5 U.S.C. 8716; 5 U.S.C. 8913; section 9 of Pub. L. 86-724, 74 Stat. 849, 851-52 (September 8, 1960) as amended by section 102 of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1978, 92 Stat. 3781, 3783 (February 23, 1978).

# Source:
72 FR 73576, Dec. 28, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 850.101
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this part is to enable changes to OPM's retirement and insurance processing systems to improve the quality and timeliness of services to employees and annuitants covered by CSRS and FERS by using contemporary, automated business processes and supporting accessible technologies. By utilizing these automated processes, OPM will employ more efficient and effective business systems to respond to increased customer demand for higher levels of customer service and online self-service tools.
(b) The provisions of this part authorize exceptions from regulatory provisions that would otherwise apply to CSRS and FERS annuities and FEGLI, FEHB, and RFEHB benefits processed by or at the direction of OPM. Those regulatory provisions that would otherwise apply were established for a hardcopy based retirement and insurance benefits processing system that may eventually be phased out but which will continue to operate concurrently with OPM's modernization efforts. During the phased transition to electronic retirement and insurance processing, certain regulations that were not designed with information technology needs in mind, and which are incompatible with electronic business processes, must be set aside with respect to electronic retirement and insurance processing. The regulations set forth in this part make the transition to electronic processing possible.
(c) The provisions of this part do not affect retirement and insurance eligibility and annuity computation provisions. The provisions for capturing retirement and insurance data in an electronic format, however, may support, in some instances, more precise calculations of annuity and insurance benefits than were possible using hardcopy records.
[78 FR 68981, Nov. 18, 2013]
§ 850.102
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of parts 831, 835, 837 through 839, 841 through 847, 870, 890, and 891 of this chapter remain in effect, as applicable, except to the extent that they are inconsistent with one or more provisions of this part or implementing directives prescribed by the Director under § 850.104.
(b) The provisions of this part do not supersede or alter any functions performed by a private insurance company or carrier with which OPM has entered into a contract, or with which OPM may enter into a contract in the future, under chapter 87 or 89 of title 5, United States Code, or under any other provision of law or regulation.
§ 850.103
Definitions.
In this part—
Agency
means an Executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code; a legislative branch agency; a judicial branch agency; the U.S. Postal Service; the Postal Regulatory Commission; and the District of Columbia government.
Biometrics
means the technology that converts a unique characteristic of an individual into a digital form, which is then interpreted by a computer and compared with a digital exemplar copy of the characteristic stored in the computer. Among the unique characteristics of an individual that can be converted into a digital form are voice patterns, fingerprints, and the blood vessel patterns present on the retina of one or both eyes.
Cryptographic control method
means an approach to authenticating identity or the authenticity of an electronic document through the use of a cipher (i.e., a pair of algorithms) which performs encryption and decryption.
CSRS
means the Civil Service Retirement System established under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.
Digital signature
means an electronic signature generated by means of an algorithm that ensures that the identity of the signatory and the integrity of the data can be verified. A value, referred to as the “private key,” is generated to produce the signature and another value, known as the “public key,” which is linked to but is not the same as the private key, is used to verify the signature.
Digitized signature
means a graphical image of a handwritten signature usually created using a special computer input device (such as a digital pen and pad), which contains unique biometric data associated with the creation of each stroke of the signature (such as duration of stroke or pen pressure). A digitized signature can be verified by a comparison with the characteristics and biometric data of a known or exemplar signature image.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
Electronic communication
means any information conveyed through electronic means and includes electronic forms, applications, elections, and requests submitted by email or any other electronic message.
Electronic Document Management System (EDMS)
means the electronic system of images of hardcopy individual retirement records (SF 2806 and SF 3100) and other retirement-related documents.
Electronic Individual Retirement Record (eIRR)
means a web-based database that contains certified electronic closeout and fully paid post-56 military service deposit Individual Retirement Records (IRRs), also known as Standard Form (SF) 2806 and SF 3100. The eIRR is stored in the Electronic Individual Retirement Record records storage database (formerly known as the Individual Retirement Record Closeout Data Capture or ICDC records storage database).
Electronic Official Personnel Record Folder (eOPF)
means an electronic version of the hardcopy Official Personnel Folder (OPF), providing Web-enabled access for federal employees and HR staff to view eOPF documents.
Electronic Retirement Record (ERR)
means the certified electronic retirement record submitted to OPM as a retirement data feed in accordance with the Guide to Retirement Data Reporting. The ERR is submitted to OPM whenever an Agency would otherwise submit a hardcopy IRR to OPM.
Employee
means an individual, other than a Member of Congress, who is covered by CSRS or FERS.
Enterprise Human Resources Integration (EHRI)
Data System
means the comprehensive electronic retirement record-keeping system that supports OPM's retirement processing across the Federal Government.
FEGLI
means the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Program established under chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code.
FEHB
means the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program established under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
FERS
means the Federal Employees' Retirement System established under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
Member
means a Member of Congress as defined by section 2106 of title 5, United States Code, who is covered by CSRS or FERS.
Non-cryptographic method
is an approach to authenticating identity that relies solely on an identification and authentication mechanism that must be linked to a specific software platform for each application.
Personal identification number (PIN) or password
means a non-cryptographic method of authenticating the identity of a user of an electronic application, involving the use of an identifier known only to the user and to the electronic system, which checks the identifier against data in a database to authenticate the user's identity.
Public/private key (asymmetric) cryptography
is a method of creating a unique mark, known as a digital signature, on an electronic document or file. This method involves the use of two computer-generated, mathematically-linked keys: A private signing key that is kept private and a public validation key that is available to the public.
Retirement Data Repository
means a secure centralized data warehouse that stores electronic retirement data of employees covered under the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System compiled from multiple sources including agencies and Shared Service Centers.
RFEHB
means the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Program established under Public Law 86-724, 74 Stat. 849, 851-52 (September 8, 1960), as amended.
Shared Service Centers
means processing centers delivering a broad array of administrative services to multiple agencies.
Shared symmetric key cryptography
means a method of authentication in which a single key is used to sign and verify an electronic document. The single key (also known as a “private key”) is known only by the user and the recipient or recipients of the electronic document.
Smart card
means a plastic card, typically the size of a credit card, containing an embedded integrated circuit or “chip” that can generate, store, or process data. A smart card can be used to facilitate various authentication technologies that may be embedded on the same card.
[78 FR 68981, Nov. 18, 2013]
§ 850.104
Implementing directives.
The Director must prescribe, in the form he or she deems appropriate, such detailed procedures as the Director determines to be necessary to carry out the purpose of this part.
§ 850.105
Agency responsibility.
Agencies employing individuals whose retirement records or processing are affected by this part are responsible for counseling those individuals regarding their rights and benefits under CSRS, FERS, FEGLI, FEHB, or RFEHB.
§ 850.106
Electronic signatures.
(a) Subject to any provisions prescribed by the Director under § 850.104—
(1) An electronic communication may be deemed to satisfy any statutory or regulatory requirement under CSRS, FERS, FEGLI, FEHB or RFEHB for a written election, notice, application, consent, request, or specific form format;
(2) An electronic signature of an electronic communication may be deemed to satisfy any statutory or regulatory requirement under CSRS, FERS, FEGLI, FEHB or RFEHB that an individual submit a signed writing to OPM;
(3) An electronic signature of a witness to an electronic signature may be deemed to satisfy any statutory or regulatory requirement under CSRS, FERS, FEGLI, FEHB or RFEHB for a signature to be witnessed; and
(4)(i) In general, any regulatory requirement under CSRS, FERS, FEGLI, FEHB or RFEHB that a signature be notarized, certified, or otherwise witnessed, by a notary public or other official authorized to administer oaths
may be satisfied by the electronic signature of the person authorized to perform those acts when such electronic signature is attached to or logically associated with all other information and records required to be included by the applicable regulation.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section, a person signing a consent or election for the purpose of electronic notarization under paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section must be in the physical presence of the notary public or an official authorized to administer oaths.
(iii) The Director may provide in directives issued under § 850.104 that alternative procedures utilized by a notary public or other official authorized to administer oaths (such as audio-video conference technology) will be deemed to satisfy the physical presence requirement for a notarized, certified, or witnessed election or consent, but only if those procedures with respect to the electronic system provide the same safeguards as are provided by physical presence.
(b) For purposes of this section, an electronic signature is a method of signing an electronic communication, including an application, claim, or notice, designation of beneficiary, or assignment that—
(1) Identifies and authenticates a particular person as the source of the electronic communication; and
(2) Indicates such person's approval of the information contained in the electronic communication.
(c) The Director will issue directives under § 850.104 that identify the acceptable methods of effecting electronic signatures for particular purposes under this part. Acceptable methods of creating an electronic signature may include—
(1) Non-cryptographic methods, including—
(i) Personal Identification Number (PIN) or password;
(ii) Smart card;
(iii) Digitized signature; or
(iv) Biometrics, such as fingerprints, retinal patterns, and voice recognition;
(2) Cryptographic control methods, including—
(i) Shared symmetric key cryptography;
(ii) Public/private key (asymmetric) cryptography, also known as digital signatures;
(3) Any combination of methods described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section; or
(4) Such other means as the Director may find appropriate.
[72 FR 73576, Dec. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 68982, Nov. 18, 2013]

# Subpart B—Applications for Benefits; Elections
§ 850.201
Applications for benefits.
(a) Hardcopy applications and related submissions that are otherwise required to be made to an individual's employing agency (other than by statute) may instead be submitted electronically in such form as the Director prescribes under § 850.104.
(b) Data provided under subpart C of this part are the basis for adjudicating claims for CSRS and FERS retirement benefits, and will support the administration of FEGLI, FEHB and RFEHB coverage for annuitants, under this part.
[78 FR 68983, Nov. 18, 2013]
§ 850.202
Survivor elections.
A survivor election under subsection (j) or (k) of section 8339, or under section 8416, 8417, or 8420 of title 5, United States Code, which is otherwise required to be in writing may be effected in such form as the Director prescribes under § 850.104.
[72 FR 73576, Dec. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 68983, Nov. 18, 2013]
§ 850.203
Other elections.
Any other election may be effected in such form as the Director prescribes under § 850.104. Such elections include but are not limited to elections of coverage under CSRS, FERS, FEGLI, FEHB, or RFEHB by individuals entitled to elect such coverage; applications for service credit and applications to make deposit; and elections regarding the withholding of State income tax from annuity payments.
[78 FR 68983, Nov. 18, 2013]

# Subpart C—Records
§ 850.301
Electronic records; other acceptable records.
(a) Acceptable electronic records for retirement and insurance processing by OPM include—
(1) Electronic employee data, including an eIRR or an ERR, submitted by an agency, agency payroll office, or Shared Service Center, or other entity and stored within the EHRI Retirement Data Repository, the eIRR records storage database, or other OPM database.
(2) Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF) data; and
(3) Documents, including hardcopy versions of the Individual Retirement Record (SF 2806 or SF 3100), or data or images obtained from such documents, including images stored in EDMS, that are converted to an electronic or digital form by means of image scanning or other forms of electronic or digital conversion.
(b) Documents that are not converted to an electronic or digital form will continue to be acceptable records for processing by the retirement and insurance processing system.
[78 FR 68983, Nov. 18, 2013]
§ 850.302
Record maintenance.
(a) The retirement and insurance processing system does not affect the responsibilities of an agency with respect to employees or Members of Congress subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, for the initiation and maintenance of records, evidence, or other information described in this title.
(b) Agencies are responsible for correcting errors in data provided to OPM under § 850.301.
§ 850.303
Return of personal documents.
An individual who submits personal documents to OPM in support of a claim for retirement or insurance benefits may have such documents returned to the individual if he or she requests the return of the documents when submitting the documents. If OPM receives a request for return of such documents at a later time, OPM may provide the individual with a copy of the document that is derived from electronic records.

# Subpart D—Submission of Law Enforcement, Firefighter, and Nuclear Materials Courier Retirement Coverage Notices
§ 850.401
Electronic notice of coverage determination.
An agency or other entity that submits electronic employee records directly or through a Shared Service Center must include in the notice of law enforcement officer, firefighter, or nuclear materials retirement coverage, required by §§ 831.811(a), 831.911(a), 842.808(a), or 842.910(a) of this chapter, the position description number, or other unique alphanumeric identifier, in the notice for the position for which law enforcement officer, firefighter, or nuclear materials courier retirement coverage has been approved. Agencies or other entities must submit position descriptions to OPM in a PDF document to combox address:
combox@opm.gov.
[78 FR 68983, Nov. 18, 2013]
Pt. 870

# PART 870—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
Sec.
870.101
Definitions.
870.102
The policy.
870.103
Correction of errors.
870.104
Incontestability.
870.105
Initial decision and reconsideration.
870.106
Designation of FEGLI services as emergency services under the Antideficiency Act.

# Subpart B—Types and Amount of Insurance
870.201
Types of insurance.
870.202
Basic insurance amount (BIA).
870.203
Post-election BIA.
870.204
Annual rates of pay.
870.205
Amount of Optional insurance.
870.206
Accidental death and dismemberment.

# Subpart C—Eligibility
870.301
Eligibility for life insurance.
870.302
Exclusions.
870.303
Eligibility of foster children under Option C.

# Subpart D—Cost of Insurance
870.401
Withholdings and contributions for Basic insurance.
870.402
Withholdings for Optional insurance.
870.403
Withholdings and contributions following a Living Benefit election.
870.404
Withholdings and contributions provisions that apply to both Basic and Optional insurance.
870.405
Direct premium payments.

# Subpart E—Coverage
870.501
Basic insurance: Effective dates of automatic coverage.
870.502
Basic insurance: Waiver/cancellation of insurance.
870.503
Basic insurance: Cancelling a waiver.
870.504
Optional insurance: Election.
870.505
Optional insurance: Waiver/cancellation of insurance.
870.506
Optional insurance: Cancelling a waiver.
870.507
Open enrollment periods.
870.508
Nonpay status.
870.509
Transfers to international organizations.
870.510
Continuation of eligibility for former Federal employees of the Civilian Marksmanship Program.

# Subpart F—Termination and Conversion
870.601
Termination of Basic insurance.
870.602
Termination of Optional insurance.
870.603
Conversion of Basic and Optional insurance.

# Subpart G—Annuitants and Compensationers
870.701
Eligibility for life insurance.
870.702
Amount of Basic insurance.
870.703
Election of Basic insurance.
870.704
Amount of Option A.
870.705
Amount and election of Option B and Option C.
870.706
Reinstatement of life insurance.
870.707
Reemployed annuitants and compensationers.
870.708
MRA-plus-10 annuitants.

# Subpart H—Order of Precedence and Designation of Beneficiary
870.801
Order of precedence and payment of benefits.
870.802
Designation of beneficiary.
870.803
Child incapable of self-support.

# Subpart I—Assignments of Life Insurance
870.901
Assignments permitted.
870.902
Making an assignment.
870.903
Effective date of assignment.
870.904
Amount of insurance.
870.905
Withholdings.
870.906
Cancellation of insurance.
870.907
Termination and conversion.
870.908
Annuitants and compensationers.
870.909
Designations and changes of beneficiary.
870.910
Notification of current addresses.

# Subpart J—Benefits for United States Hostages in Iraq and Kuwait and United States Hostages Captured in Lebanon
870.1001
Purpose.
870.1002
Definitions.
870.1003
Coverage and amount of insurance.
870.1004
Effective date of insurance.
870.1005
Premiums.
870.1006
Cancellation of insurance.
870.1007
Termination and conversion.
870.1008
Order of precedence and designation of beneficiary.
870.1009
Responsibilities of the U.S. Department of State.

# Subpart K—Living Benefits
870.1101
Eligibility for a Living Benefit.
870.1102
Amount of a Living Benefit.
870.1103
Election procedures.
Subpart L [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8716; Sec. 870.106 also issued under section 1110(b) of Pub. L. 116-92, 133 Stat. 1198 (5 U.S.C. 8702 note); Sec. 870.302(a)(3) also issued under sections 11202(f), 11232(e), and 11246(b) and (c) of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, section 7(e) of Pub. L. 105-274, 112 Stat. 2419, and section 145 of Pub. L. 106-522, 114 Stat. 2472; Sec. 870.302(a)(3)(ii) also issued under section 153 of Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321; Secs. 870.302(b)(8), 870.601(a), and 870.602(b) also issued under Pub. L. 110-279, 122 Stat. 2604 (2 U.S.C. 2051); Subpart E also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8702(c); Sec. 870.601(d)(3) also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8706(d); Sec. 870.510 also issued under section 1622(b) of Pub. L. 104-106, 110 Stat. 521 (36 U.S.C. 5522); Sec. 870.703(e)(1) also issued under section 502 of Pub. L. 110-177, 121 Stat. 2542 (5 U.S.C. 8701 note); Sec. 870.705 also issued under 5 U.S.C. 8714b(c) and 8714c(c); and Subpart J also issued under section 599C of Pub. L. 101-513, 104 Stat. 2064 (5 U.S.C. 5561 note), as amended.

# Source:
62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
§ 870.101
Definitions.
Accidental death and dismemberment
refers to the insured's death or loss of a hand, a foot, or vision in one eye that results directly from, and occurs within one year of, a bodily injury caused solely through violent, external, and accidental means.
Acquisition of an eligible child
occurs when:
(1) A child is born to the insured;
(2) The insured adopts a child;
(3) The insured acquires a foster child;
(4) The insured's stepchild or recognized natural child moves in with the insured;
(5) An otherwise eligible child's marriage is dissolved by divorce or annulment, or his or her spouse dies;
(6) The insured gains custody of an eligible child.
Annuitant
means a former employee entitled to an annuity under a retirement system established for employees. This includes the retirement system of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard.
Assign
and
assignment
refer to an individual's irrevocable transfer to another individual, corporation, or trustee all ownership of FEGLI coverage (except Option C).
Assignee
means the individual, corporation, or trustee to which an individual irrevocably transfers ownership of FEGLI coverage (except Option C).
Beneficiary
means the individual, corporation, trust, or other entity that receives FEGLI benefits when an insured individual dies.
Child,
as used in the definition of
Family member
for Option C coverage, means a legitimate child, an adopted child, a stepchild or foster child who lives with the employee or former employee in a regular parent-child relationship, or a recognized natural child. It does not include a stillborn child or a grandchild (unless the grandchild meets all the requirements of a foster child). The child must be under age 22 or, if age 22 or over, must be incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical disability which existed before the child reached age 22.
Child,
as used in the
order of precedence for payment of benefits,
means a legitimate child, an adopted child, or a recognized natural child, of any age. It does not include a stepchild, a stillborn child, a grandchild, or a foster child. An individual who has reached age 18 is considered an adult and can receive a benefit payment in his/her name. However, if the age of adulthood where the individual has his/her legal residence is set at a lower age, the individual is considered an adult upon reaching that lower age. Adopted children do not inherit from their birth parents under the order of precedence stated in 5 U.S.C. 8705, other than as designated beneficiaries, but inherit from their adoptive parents. However, a child who is adopted by the spouse of a birth parent inherits from that birth parent.
Compensation
means compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, which is payable because of an on-the-job injury or disease.
Compensationer
means an employee or former employee who is entitled to compensation and whom the Department of Labor determines is unable to return to duty.
Court order
means:
(1) A court decree of divorce, annulment, or legal separation; or
(2) A court-approved property settlement agreement relating to a court decree of divorce, annulment, or legal separation—that requires benefits to be paid to a specific person or persons and is received in the employing office before the insured dies.
Covered position
means a position in which an employee is not excluded from FEGLI eligibility by law or regulation.
Date of retirement,
as used in 5 U.S.C. 8706(b)(1)(A), means the starting date of annuity. For phased retirees, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8336a and 8412a, the date of retirement is the date the individual enters full retirement status.
Dependent
means living with or receiving regular and substantial support from the insured individual.
Duly appointed representative of the insured's estate
means an individual
named in a court order granting the individual the authority to receive, or the right to possess, the insured's property; the order must be issued by a court having jurisdiction over the insured's estate. Where the law of the insured's legal residence provides for the administration of estates through alternative procedures which do away with the need for a court order, this term also means an individual who shows that he/she is entitled to receive, or possess, the insured's property under the terms of those alternative procedures.
Employee
means an individual defined by section 8701(a) of title 5, United States Code.
Employing office
means the agency office or retirement system office that has responsibility for life insurance actions.
(1) The Administrative Office of the United States Courts is the employing office for judges of the following courts:
(i) All United States Courts of Appeals;
(ii) All United States District Courts;
(iii) The Court of International Trade;
(iv) The Court of Federal Claims; and
(v) The District Courts of Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands.
(2) The Washington Headquarters Services is the employing office for judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.
(3) The United States Tax Court is the employing office for judges of the United States Tax Court.
(4) The United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims is the employing office for judges of the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
Family member
means a spouse (including a valid common law marriage) and unmarried dependent child(ren).
Immediate annuity
means:
(1) An annuity that begins no later than 1 month after the date the insurance would otherwise stop (the date of separation from service), and
(2) An annuity under § 842.204(a)(1) of this title for which the starting date has been postponed under § 842.204(c) of this title.
Judge
means an individual appointed as a Federal justice or judge under Article I or Article III of the Constitution.
OFEGLI
means the Office of Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance, which pays benefits under the policy.
OPM
means the Office of Personnel Management.
OWCP
means the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, which administers subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code.
Parent
means the mother or father of a legitimate child or an adopted child. The term
parent
includes the mother of a recognized natural child; it also includes the father of a recognized natural child if the recognized natural child meets the definition provided below.
Recognized natural child,
with respect to paternity, is one for whom the father meets one of the following:
(1) (i) Has acknowledged paternity in writing;
(ii) Was ordered by a court to provide support;
(iii) Before his death, was pronounced by a court to be the father;
(iv) Was established as the father by a certified copy of the public record of birth or church record of baptism, if the insured was the informant and named himself as the father of the child; or
(v) Established paternity on public records, such as records of schools or social welfare agencies, which show that with his knowledge the insured was named as the father of the child.
(2) If paternity is not established by paragraph (1) of this definition, such evidence as the child's eligibility as a recognized natural child under other State or Federal programs or proof that the insured included the child as a dependent child on his income tax returns may be considered when attempting to establish paternity.
Reconsideration
means the final level of administrative review of an employing office's initial decision to determine if the employing office followed the law and regulations correctly in making the initial decision concerning FEGLI eligibility and coverage.
Regular parent-child relationship
means that the employee or former employee is exercising parental authority, responsibility, and control over the child by caring for, supporting, disciplining, and guiding the child, including making decisions about the child's education and medical care.
Service
means civilian service which is creditable under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code. This includes service under a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard for an individual who elected to remain under a retirement system established for employees described in section 2105(c) of title 5.
Terminally ill
means having a medical prognosis of a life expectancy of 9 months or less.
Underdeduction
means a failure to withhold the required amount of life insurance deductions from an individual's pay, annuity, or compensation. This includes nondeductions (when none of the required amount was withheld) and partial deductions (when only part of the required amount was withheld).
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997; 62 FR 52181, Oct. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 16602, Apr. 6, 1999; 64 FR 72461, Dec. 28, 1999; 75 FR 60575, Oct. 1, 2010; 79 FR 46637, Aug. 8, 2014; 85 FR 60048, Sept. 24, 2020]
§ 870.102
The policy.
Basic, Option A, Option B, and Option C benefits are payable according to a contract with the company or companies that issue a policy under § 8709 of title 5, United States Code. Any court action to obtain money due from this insurance policy must be taken against the company that issues the policy.
§ 870.103
Correction of errors.
(a) The employing office may make corrections of administrative errors regarding coverage or changes in coverage. Retroactive corrections are subject to the provisions of § 870.401(f).
(b) OPM may order correction of an error after reviewing evidence that it would be against equity and good conscience not to do so.
§ 870.104
Incontestability.
(a) If an individual erroneously becomes insured, the coverage will remain in effect if at least 2 years pass before the error is discovered, and if the individual has paid applicable premiums during that time. This applies to errors discovered on or after October 30, 1998, and applies only to employees, not retirees or compensationers.
(b) If an employee is erroneously allowed to continue insurance into retirement or while receiving compensation, the coverage will remain in effect if at least 2 years pass before the error is discovered, and if the annuitant or compensationer has paid applicable premiums during that time. This applies to such errors discovered on or after October 30, 1998.
(c) If an individual is erroneously enrolled in life insurance on or after the date he or she retires or begins receiving compensation, the coverage cannot remain in effect even if 2 years pass and the individual paid applicable premiums.
(d) If an individual who is allowed to continue erroneous coverage under this section does not want the coverage, he or she may cancel the coverage on a prospective basis, effective at the end of the pay period in which the waiver is properly filed. There is no refund of premiums.
Exception:
If an employee obtained Option C erroneously and did not have any eligible family members, that coverage may be cancelled retroactively and the insured will obtain a refund of the erroneous Option C premiums.
[75 FR 60576, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.105
Initial decision and reconsideration.
(a) An individual may ask his or her agency or retirement system to reconsider its initial decision denying:
(1) Life insurance coverage;
(2) The opportunity to change coverage;
(3) The opportunity to designate a beneficiary; or
(4) The opportunity to assign insurance.
(b) An employing office's decision is an initial decision when the employing office gives it in writing and informs
the individual of the right to an independent level of review (reconsideration) by the appropriate agency or retirement system.
(c) A request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the following:
(1) The employee's (or annuitant's) name, address, date of birth;
(2) The reason(s) for the request; and
(3) The retirement claim number (Civil Service Annuity Claim Number) or compensation number, if applicable.
(d) A request for reconsideration must be made within 31 calendar days from the date of the initial decision (60 calendar days if overseas). This time limit may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it or that he or she was unable, due to reasons beyond the individual's control, to make the request within the time limit.
(e) The reconsideration must take place at or above the level at which the initial decision was made.
(f) After reconsideration, the agency or retirement system must issue a final decision to the insured individual. This decision must be in writing and must fully state the findings.
[75 FR 60576, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.106
Designation of FEGLI services as emergency services under the Antideficiency Act.
(a) Any services by an officer or employee relating to benefits under this part, shall be deemed, for purposes of section 1342 of Title 31, United States Code, as services for emergencies involving the safety of human life or the protection of property.
(b) The designation of services as emergency services shall apply to any lapse in appropriations beginning on or after December 20, 2019, the date of enactment of Section 1110(d) of Public Law 116-92.
[86 FR 17273, Apr. 2, 2021]

# Subpart B—Types and Amount of Insurance
§ 870.201
Types of insurance.
(a) There are two types of life insurance under the FEGLI Program: Basic and Optional.
(b) There are three types of Optional insurance: Option A (standard optional insurance), Option B (additional optional insurance), and Option C (family optional insurance).
§ 870.202
Basic insurance amount (BIA).
(a)(1) An employee's Basic insurance amount (BIA) is either:
(i) The employee's annual rate of basic pay, rounded to the next higher thousand, plus $2,000; or
(ii) $10,000; whichever is higher, unless the employee has elected a Living Benefit under subpart K of this part. Effective for pay periods beginning on or after October 30, 1998, there is no maximum BIA.
Note:
If an employee's pay is “capped” by law, the amount of the Basic insurance is based on the capped amount, which is the amount the employee is actually being paid. It is not based on the amount the employee's pay would have been without the pay cap.
(2) The BIA of an individual who is eligible to continue Basic Life insurance coverage as an annuitant or compensationer is the BIA in effect at the time his/her insurance as an employee would stop under § 870.601.
(b) An employee's BIA automatically changes whenever annual pay is increased or decreased by an amount sufficient to raise or lower pay to a different $1,000 bracket, unless the employee has elected a Living Benefit under subpart K of this part.
(c) The amount of an employee's Basic Life insurance coverage is equal to his/her BIA multiplied by the appropriate factor based on the employee's age, as follows:
Age
Factor
35 or under
2.0
36
1.9
37
1.8
38
1.7
39
1.6
40
1.5
41
1.4
42
1.3
43
1.2
44
1.1
45 or over
1.0
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 72461, Dec. 28, 1999; 75 FR 60576, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.203
Post-election BIA.
(a) The BIA of an individual who elects a Living Benefit under subpart K of this part is the amount of insurance left after the effective date of the Living Benefit election. This amount is the individual's post-election BIA.
(1) The post-election BIA of an individual who elects a full Living Benefit is 0.
(2) If an employee elects a partial Living Benefit, the employee still has some Basic insurance. OFEGLI determines this amount by computing the BIA as of the date it receives the completed Living Benefit application and reducing the amount by a percentage. This percentage represents the amount of the employee's partial Living Benefit payment, compared to the amount the employee could have received if he or she had elected a full Living Benefit. The amount that is left is rounded up or down to the nearest multiple of $1,000. (If the amount is midway between multiples, it is rounded up to the next higher multiple.)
(b) The post-election BIA cannot change after the effective date of the Living Benefit election.
(c) If an employee elected a partial Living Benefit and that employee is under age 45 at the time of death, OFEGLI will multiply the post-election BIA by the appropriate factor, as specified in § 870.202(c), in effect on the date 9 months after the date OFEGLI received the completed Living Benefit application.
[75 FR 60576, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.204
Annual rates of pay.
(a)(1) An employee's annual pay is the annual basic pay of the position as fixed by law or regulation, except as otherwise provided by specific provision of law or OPM regulation. Annual pay for this purpose includes the following:
(i) Any pay of a type that is treated as basic pay for purposes of the retirement systems established under 5 U.S.C. chapters 83 and 84, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8331(3), and pay that is annual pay for purposes of the FEGLI Program as provided in Federal law and regulation;
(ii) Any geographic-based pay supplement that is equivalent to a locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304; and
(iii) Any special pay supplement for a defined subcategory of employees that is equivalent to a special rate supplement under 5 U.S.C. 5305.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) (1) of this section, annual basic pay does not include the following:
(i) Bonuses, allowances, overtime pay, military pay, or any other pay to a covered civilian employee given in addition to the base pay of the position, except as otherwise provided by specific provision of law or OPM regulation.
(ii) Physicians comparability allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5948.
(b) To convert a pay rate of other than annual salary to an annual rate, multiply the pay rate by the number of pay units in a 52-week work year.
(c) The annual pay for a part-time employee is his/her basic pay applied to his/her tour of duty in a 52-week work year.
(d) The annual pay for an employee on piecework rates is the total basic earnings for the previous calendar year, not counting premium pay for overtime or holidays.
(e) The annual pay for an employee with a regular schedule who works at different pay rates is the weighted average of the rates at which the employee is paid, projected to an annual basis.
(f) The annual pay for a non-Postal intermittent employee or an employee who works at different pay rates without a regular schedule is the annual rate which he/she is receiving at the end of the pay period.
(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section, if an employee legally serves in more than one position at the same time,
and at least one of those positions entitles the employee to life insurance coverage, the annual pay for life insurance purposes is the sum of the annual rate of basic pay fixed by law or regulation for each position.
(2) Paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply to—
(i) An employee of the Postal Service who works on a part-time flexible schedule; or
(ii) A temporary, intermittent decennial census worker.
(3) If an employee's annual pay includes premium pay or availability pay under paragraphs (e), (f), or (g) of this section, the annual pay is determined by multiplying the employee's annual rate of basic pay by the applicable percentage factor.
(h) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the annual pay for a phased retiree, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8336a and 8412a, is deemed to be the rate of a full-time employee in the position to which the phased retiree is appointed, as determined under 5 CFR 831.1715(a)(2) or 848.205(a)(2), as applicable.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997; 62 FR 52181, Oct. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 64595, Nov. 23, 1998; 75 FR 60577, Oct. 1, 2010; 79 FR 46637, Aug. 8, 2014; 80 FR 58121, Sept. 25, 2015; 85 FR 60048, Sept. 24, 2020]
§ 870.205
Amount of Optional insurance.
(a) Option A coverage is $10,000. Effective for pay periods beginning on or after October 30, 1998, Option A cannot exceed this amount. Exception: This does not apply to annuitants who retired with a higher amount of Option A before the removal of the maximum on Basic insurance (the first pay period beginning on or after October 30, 1998).
(b)(1) Option B coverage comes in 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 multiples of an employee's annual pay (after the pay has been rounded to the next higher thousand, if not already an even thousand). Effective for pay periods beginning on or after October 30, 1998, there is no maximum amount for each multiple.

# Note:
If an employee's pay is “capped” by law, the amount of the Option B insurance is based on the capped amount, which is the amount the employee is actually being paid. It is not based on the amount the employee's pay would have been without the pay cap.
(2) The amount of Option B coverage automatically changes whenever annual pay is increased or decreased by an amount sufficient to raise or lower pay to a different $1,000 bracket.
(c) Effective April 24, 1999, Option C coverage comes in 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 multiples of the following amounts: $5,000 on the death of a spouse and $2,500 on the death of an eligible child. Payments are made to the insured individual.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 72461, Dec. 28, 1999; 75 FR 60577, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.206
Accidental death and dismemberment.
(a)(1) Accidental death and dismemberment coverage is an automatic part of Basic and Option A insurance for employees.
(2) There is no accidental death and dismemberment coverage with Option B or Option C.
(3) Individuals who are insured as annuitants or compensationers do not have accidental death and dismemberment coverage.
(b)(1) Under Basic insurance, accidental death benefits are equal to the BIA, but without the age factor described in § 870.202(c).
(2) Under Option A, accidental death benefits are equal to the amount of Option A.
(c)(1) Under Basic insurance, accidental dismemberment benefits for the loss of a hand, foot, or the vision in one eye are equal to one-half the BIA. For loss of 2 or more of these in a single accident, benefits are equal to the BIA.
(2) Under Option A, accidental dismemberment benefits for the loss of a hand, foot, or the vision in one eye are equal to one-half the amount of Option A. For loss of 2 or more of these in a single accident, benefits are equal to the amount of Option A.
(3) Accidental dismemberment benefits are paid to the employee.
(4) Accidental death benefits are paid to the employee's beneficiaries.
[75 FR 60577, Oct. 1, 2010]

# Subpart C—Eligibility
§ 870.301
Eligibility for life insurance.
(a) Each nonexcluded employee is automatically insured for Basic insurance unless he/she waives it.
(b)(1) Optional insurance must be specifically elected; it is not automatic.
(2) An employee may elect one or more types of Optional insurance if:
(i) He/she has Basic insurance; and
(ii) He/she does not have a waiver of that type (or types) or Optional insurance still in effect.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, the hiring of a Federal employee, whether in pay status or nonpay status, for a temporary, intermittent position with the decennial census has no effect on the amount of his/her Basic or Option B insurance, the withholdings or Government contribution for his/her insurance, or the determination of when 12 months in nonpay status ends.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 9402, Feb. 25, 1998; 64 FR 72461, Dec. 28, 1999]
§ 870.302
Exclusions.
(a) The following individuals are excluded from life insurance coverage by law:
(1) An employee of a corporation supervised by the Farm Credit Administration, if private interests elect or appoint a member of the board of directors.
(2) An individual who is not a citizen or national of the United States and whose permanent duty station is outside the United States.
Exception:
an individual who met the definition of
employee
on September 30, 1979, by service in an Executive agency, the United States Postal Service, or the Smithsonian Institution in the area which was then known as the Canal Zone.
(3) An individual first employed by the government of the District of Columbia on or after October 1, 1987.
Exceptions:
(i) An employee of St. Elizabeths Hospital, who accepts employment with the District of Columbia government following Federal employment without a break in service, as provided in section 6 of Public Law 98-621 (98 Stat. 3379);
(ii) An employee of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (Authority), who makes an election under the Technical Corrections to Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act (section 153 of Pub. L. 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321)) to be considered a Federal employee for life insurance and other benefits purposes; employees of the Authority who are former Federal employees are subject to the provisions of §§ 870.503(d) and 870.705 of this part;
(iii) The Corrections Trustee or an employee of that Trustee who accepts employment with the District of Columbia government within 3 days after separating from the Federal Government.
(iv) The Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee or an employee of that Trustee;
(v) Effective October 1, 1997, a judicial or nonjudicial employee of the District of Columbia Courts, as provided by Public Law 105-33 (111 Stat. 251); and
(vi) Effective April 1, 1999, an employee of the Public Defender Service of the District of Columbia, as provided by Public Law 105-274 (112 Stat. 2419).
(4) A teacher in a Department of Defense dependents school overseas, if employed by the Federal Government in a nonteaching position during the recess period between school years.
(b) The following employees are also excluded from life insurance coverage:
(1) An employee serving under an appointment limited to 1 year or less.
Exceptions:
(i) An employee whose full-time or part-time temporary appointment has a regular tour of duty and follows employment in a position in which the employee was insured, with no break in service or with a break in service of no more than 3 days;
(ii) An acting postmaster;
(iii) A Presidential appointee appointed to fill an unexpired term; and
(iv) Certain employees who receive provisional appointments as defined in § 316.403 of this chapter.
(2) An employee who is employed for an uncertain or purely temporary period, who is employed for brief periods at intervals, or who is expected to
work less than 6 months in each year. Exception: An employee who receives an appointment of at least 1 year's duration as an Intern under § 213.3402 of this chapter, entitled “
Entire executive civil service; Pathways Programs,
” and who is expected to be in a pay status for at least one-third of the total period of time from the date of the first appointment to the completion of the work-study program.
(3) An intermittent employee (a non-full-time employee without a regularly-scheduled tour of duty).
Exception:
an employee whose intermittent appointment follows, with no break in service or with a break in service of no more than 3 days, employment in a position in which he or she was insured and to which he or she is expected to return.
(4) An employee whose pay, on an annual basis, is $12 a year or less.
(5) A beneficiary or patient employee in a Government hospital or home.
(6) An employee paid on a contract or fee basis.
Exception:
an employee who is a United States citizen, who is appointed by a contract between the employee and the Federal employing authority which requires his or her personal service, and who is paid on the basis of units of time.
(7) An employee paid on a piecework basis.
Exception:
an employee whose work schedule provides for full-time or part-time service with a regularly-scheduled tour of duty.
(8) A Senate restaurant employee, except a former Senate restaurant employee who had life insurance coverage on the date of transfer to a private contractor on or after July 17, 2008, and who elected to continue such coverage and to continue coverage under either chapter 83 or 84 of title 5, United States Code.
(c) OPM makes the final determination regarding the applicability of the provisions of this section to a specific employee or group of employees.
[75 FR 60577, Oct. 1, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 531, Jan. 6, 2014; 81 FR 72686, Oct. 21, 2016]
§ 870.303
Eligibility of foster children under Option C.
(a) Effective October 30, 1998, foster children are eligible for coverage as family members under Option C.
(b) To qualify for coverage as a foster child, the child must meet the following requirements:
(1) The child must live with the insured employee, annuitant, or compensationer;
(2) The parent-child relationship (as defined in § 870.101) must be with the insured employee, annuitant, or compensationer, not the biological parent;
(3) The employee, annuitant, or compensationer must be the primary source of financial support for the child; and
(4) The employee, annuitant, or compensationer must expect to raise the child to adulthood.
(c) A child placed in an insured individual's home by a welfare or social service agency under an agreement by which the agency retains control of the child or pays for maintenance does not qualify as a foster child.
(d)(1) An insured individual wishing to cover a foster child must sign a certification stating that the child meets all the requirements and that he/she will notify the employing office or retirement system if the child marries, moves out of the home, or stops being financially dependent on the employee, annuitant, or compensationer.
(2) The employing office or retirement system must keep the signed certification in the insured individual's file, along with other life insurance forms.
(e) A foster child who moves out of the insured individual's home to live with a biological parent loses eligibility and cannot again be covered as a foster child unless:
(1) The biological parent dies;
(2) The biological parent is imprisoned;
(3) The biological parent becomes unable to care for the child due to a disability; or
(4) The employee, annuitant, or compensationer obtains a court order taking parental responsibility away from the biological parent.
[64 FR 72461, Dec. 28, 1999]

# Subpart D—Cost of Insurance
§ 870.401
Withholdings and contributions for Basic insurance.
(a)(1) The cost of Basic insurance is shared between the insured individual and the Government. The employee pays two-thirds of the cost, and the Government pays one-third.
(2) When OPM makes any adjustment to the Basic life insurance premium, it will issue a public notice in the
Federal Register.
(b)(1) During each pay period in which an insured employee is in pay status for any part of the period, the employee's share of the premium must be withheld from the employee's biweekly pay. The amount withheld from the pay of an employee who is paid on other than a biweekly basis must be computed and adjusted to the nearest one-tenth of one cent.
(2) The amount withheld from the pay of an insured employee whose annual pay is paid during a period shorter than 52 work weeks is the amount obtained by converting the biweekly rate to an annual rate and prorating the annual rate over the number of installments of pay regularly paid during the year.
(3) The amount withheld from the pay of an insured employee whose BIA changes during a pay period is based on the BIA last in force during the pay period.
(c) For each pay period in which an employee is insured, the employing agency must contribute an amount equal to one-half the amount withheld from the employee's pay. This agency contribution must come from the appropriation or fund that is used for the payment of the employee's pay. For an elected official, the contribution must come from the appropriation or fund that is available for payment of other salaries in the same office.
(d)(1) For an annuitant or compensationer who elects to continue Basic insurance and chooses the maximum reduction of 75 percent after age 65 under § 870.702(a)(2), the annuitant's share of the premium is withheld monthly and the compensationer's share is withheld every 4 weeks. These withholdings stop the month after the month in which the annuitant or compensationer reaches age 65. There are no withholdings from individuals who retired or began receiving compensation before January 1, 1990, and who elected the 75 percent reduction. For the purpose of this paragraph, an individual who separates from service after meeting the requirements for an immediate annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8412(g) is considered to retire on the day before the annuity begins.
(2) An annuitant or compensationer who elects to continue Basic insurance and chooses either the reduction election of 50 percent or the election of no reduction after age 65 under § 870.702(a)(3) or (4) pays an additional premium for the 50 percent or no reduction election. This additional premium is withheld for each $1,000 of the BIA. At age 65, the Basic premium will stop, but the annuitant or compensationer must continue to pay the additional premium for either the 50 percent or the no reduction election.
(e)(1) For each period in which an annuitant or compensationer is insured, OPM must contribute an amount equal to one-half the amount that would be withheld under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Exception: for USPS employees who become annuitants or compensationers after December 31, 1989, the Postal Service pays the Government contributions.
(2) The Government contribution is the same amount whether the individual elects a maximum 75 percent reduction, a maximum 50 percent reduction, or no reduction.
(3) The Government contribution stops the month after the month in which the individual reaches age 65.
(f) When an agency withholds less than or none of the proper amount of Basic life insurance deductions from an individual's pay, annuity, or compensation, the agency must submit an amount equal to the sum of the uncollected deduction and any applicable agency contributions required under 5 U.S.C. 8708 to OPM for deposit in the Employees' Life Insurance Fund.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 22544, Apr. 27, 1999; 68 FR 59081, Oct. 14, 2003; 75 FR 60578, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.402
Withholdings for Optional insurance.
(a)(1) The insured individual pays the full cost of all Optional insurance. There is no Government contribution toward the cost of any Optional insurance.
(2) Optional insurance premiums are based on 5-year age bands beginning at age 35. The last age band for Option A is age 60+. The last age band for Options B and C is 80+. For the purpose of this subpart, effective April 24, 1999, an individual is considered to reach the next age band the 1st day of the pay period following the pay period in which his/her birthday occurs.
(3) When OPM makes any adjustment to the Optional life insurance premiums, it will issue a public notice in the
Federal Register.
(b) During each pay period in any part of which an insured employee is in pay status, the employing agency must withhold the full cost of Optional insurance from his/her pay.
(c)(1) Subject to the provisions for reemployed annuitants in § 870.707, the full cost of Optional insurance must be withheld from the annuity of an annuitant the compensation of a compensationer.
(2) The withholdings for Option A stop the month after the month in which an annuitant or compensationer reaches age 65.
(3) For an annuitant or compensationer who elects Full Reduction for any Option B or Option C multiples under § 870.705, the withholdings for those multiples stop the month after the month in which he/she reaches age 65.
(4) For an annuitant or compensationer who elects No Reduction for any Option B or Option C multiples, the withholdings for those multiples continue, as long as he/she remains insured.
(d)(1) For Option A and Option C, the amount withheld from pay, annuity, or compensation paid on other than a biweekly basis must be computed and adjusted to the nearest cent.
(2) For Option B, the amount withheld from pay, annuity, or compensation paid on other than a biweekly basis must be computed and adjusted to the nearest one-tenth of 1 cent.
(e) If an employee's annual pay is paid during a period shorter than 52 work weeks, the employing office must determine the amount to withhold. To do this, it converts the biweekly cost to an annual cost and prorates it over the number of installments of pay regularly paid during the year.
(f) When an agency withholds less than or none of the proper amount of Optional life insurance deductions from an individual's pay, annuity, or compensation, the agency must submit an amount equal to the uncollected deductions required under 5 U.S.C. 8714a, 8714b, and 8714c to OPM for deposit in the Employees' Life Insurance Fund.
[68 FR 59081, Oct. 14, 2003]
§ 870.403
Withholdings and contributions following a Living Benefit election.
(a) Withholdings and contributions for Basic insurance for an individual who elects a full Living Benefit under subpart K of this part stop at the end of the pay period in which the Living Benefit election is effective.
(b) Withholdings and contributions for Basic insurance for an employee who elects a partial Living Benefit under subpart K of this part are based on the post-election BIA. This reduction in withholdings and contributions starts at the end of the pay period in which the Living Benefit election is effective.
(c) Withholdings and contributions for Basic insurance for an annuitant or compensationer who elected a partial Living Benefit as an employee are based on the post-election BIA.
(d) There is no change in withholdings for Optional insurance for individuals who elect a Living Benefit.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997; 62 FR 52181, Oct. 6, 1997]
§ 870.404
Withholdings and contributions provisions that apply to both Basic and Optional insurance.
(a) Withholdings (and Government contributions, when applicable) are based on the amount of insurance last in force on an employee during the pay period.
(b) Withholdings are not required for the period between the end of the pay period in which an employee separates
from service and the date his/her annuity or compensation begins.
(c) No payment is required while an insured employee is in nonpay status for up to 12 months. Exception: an employee who is in nonpay status while receiving compensation.
(d) The deposit described in §§ 870.401(f) and 870.402(f) must be made no later than 60 calendar days after the date the employing office determines the amount of the underdeduction that has occurred, regardless of whether or when the underdeduction is recovered by the agency. The agency must determine whether to waive collection of the overpayment of pay, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5584, as implemented by 4 CFR chapter I, subchapter G. However, if the agency involved is excluded from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5584, it may use any applicable authority to waive the collection.
(e) Effective October 21, 1972, when there is an official finding that an employee was suspended or fired erroneously, no withholdings are made from the back pay. Exception: if death or accidental dismemberment occurs during the period between the employee's removal and the finding that the agency action was erroneous, premiums are withheld from the back pay awarded.
(f) If an individual's periodic pay, compensation, or annuity isn't sufficient to cover the full withholdings, any amount available for life insurance withholding must be applied first to Basic insurance, with any remainder applied to Optional insurance (first to Option B, then Option A, then Option C).
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 59082, Oct. 14, 2003; 75 FR 60578, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.405
Direct premium payments.
(a) Since January 1, 1988, annuitants who retired under 5 U.S.C. chapter 84 (Federal Employees' Retirement System) have been able to make direct premium payments if their annuity became too small to cover the premiums. Effective the first pay period beginning on or after October 30, 1998, all employees, annuitants, and compensationers whose pay, annuity, or compensation is insufficient to cover the withholdings can make direct premium payments.
(b)(1) For an individual to be eligible to make direct premium payments, the employing office or retirement system must determine that the pay, annuity, or compensation, after all other deductions, is expected to be insufficient on an ongoing basis,
i.e.,
for the next 6 months or more.
(2) This section does not apply to employees in nonpay status. Employees in nonpay status are governed by § 870.404(c).
(c)(1) When the employing office or retirement system determines that the pay, annuity, or compensation is insufficient, and will be insufficient on an ongoing basis, it must notify the insured individual (or the assignee, if the individual has assigned his/her insurance under subpart I of this part) in writing and inform him/her of the available choices.
(2) Within 31 calendar days of receiving the notice (60 days for individuals living overseas), the insured individual (or assignee) must return the notice to the employing office or retirement system, choosing either to terminate some or all of the insurance or to make direct premium payments. An employee, annuitant, or compensationer is considered to receive a mailed notice 15 days after the date of the notice.
(3) If an individual does not return the notice within the required time frames, the employing office or retirement system will terminate the insurance.
(d)(1) Terminated coverage stops at the end of the last pay period for which premiums were withheld.
(2) An individual whose insurance terminates, either by choice or by failure to return the notice, gets the 31-day extension of coverage and right to convert, as provided in subpart F of this part.
(3)(i) When an employee's pay again becomes sufficient to allow premium withholdings, the employing office will automatically reinstate the terminated coverage.
(ii) An annuitant or compensationer whose coverage terminates cannot have the coverage reinstated when the annuity or compensation becomes sufficient to cover withholdings.
(e)(1) Employing offices and retirement systems must establish a method for accepting premium payments for insured individuals who choose to pay directly.
(2) Individuals who are paying directly must send the required premium payment to the employing office or retirement system for every pay period during which coverage continues. The insured individual must make the payment after each pay period, according to the schedule established by the employing office or retirement system.
(3)(i) When an employee's pay again becomes sufficient to allow premium withholdings, he/she must stop making direct payments. The employing office will begin to withhold premiums automatically.
(ii) An annuitant or compensationer who is making direct premium payments must continue to pay directly, even if the annuity or compensation becomes sufficient to allow withholdings.
(f) The employing office or retirement system must submit all direct premium payments, along with its regular life insurance premiums, to OPM according to procedures set by OPM.
(g)(1) If an individual on direct pay fails to make the required premium payment on time, the employing office or retirement system must notify the individual. The individual must make the payment within 31 calendar days after receiving the notice (60 days if living overseas). An individual is considered to have received a mailed notice 15 days after the date of the notice, 30 days if living overseas.
(2) If an insured individual fails to make the overdue payment, his/her insurance cancels. Cancellation is effective at the end of the last pay period for which payment was received.
(3) An individual whose insurance cancels for nonpayment does not get the 31-day extension of coverage or the right to convert provided in subpart F of this part.
(4) Coverage that cancels for nonpayment is not reinstated when the individual's pay, annuity, or compensation becomes sufficient to allow withholdings, except as provided by paragraph (g)(5) of this section.
(5) If, for reasons beyond his or her control, an insured individual is unable to pay within 30 days of receiving the past due notice (45 days if living overseas), he or she may request reinstatement of coverage by writing to the employing office or retirement system within 60 days from the date of cancellation. The individual must provide proof that the inability to pay within the time limit was for reasons beyond his or her control. The employing office or retirement system will decide if the individual is eligible for reinstatement of coverage. If the employing office or retirement system approves the request, the coverage is reinstated back to the date of cancellation, and the individual must pay the back premiums.
[64 FR 72462, Dec. 28, 1999, as amended at 75 FR 60578, Oct. 1, 2010]

# Subpart E—Coverage
§ 870.501
Basic insurance: Effective dates of automatic coverage.
(a)(1) When an employee is appointed or transferred to a position in which he/she is eligible for insurance, the employee is automatically insured for Basic insurance on the day he/she enters on duty in pay status, unless, before the end of the first pay period, the employee files a waiver of Basic insurance with the employing office or had previously filed a waiver which remains in effect.
(2) An insured employee who moves to another covered position is automatically insured on the effective date of the move, unless the employee files a waiver of Basic insurance with the new employing office before the end of the first pay period in the new position.
(3) When an employee of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority elects to be considered a Federal employee under section 153 of Pub. L. 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321), he/she is automatically insured on (i) the date the employee enters on duty in pay status with the Authority, or (ii) the date the Authority receives the employee's election to be considered a Federal employee, whichever is later.
(b) An employee who returns to pay and duty status after a period of more than 12 months of nonpay status is automatically insured at the time he/she actually enters on duty in pay status, unless, before the end of the first pay period, the employee files a waiver of Basic insurance coverage with the employing office or had previously filed a waiver which remains in effect.
(c) For an employee who serves in cooperation with a non-Federal agency and who is paid in whole or in part from non-Federal funds, OPM sets the effective date. This date must be part of an agreement between OPM and the non-Federal agency. The agreement must provide either:
(1) That the required withholdings and contributions be made from Federally controlled funds and deposited into the Employees' Life Insurance Fund on a timely basis, or
(2) That the cooperating non-Federal agency, by written agreement with the Federal agency, make the required withholdings and contributions from non-Federal funds and transmit that amount to the Federal agency for deposit into the Employees' Life Insurance Fund on a timely basis.
(d) If an employee waived Basic insurance on or before February 28, 1981, the waiver was automatically cancelled effective on the 1st day the employee entered on duty in pay status on or after April 1, 1981. Basic insurance coverage was automatically effective on the date of the waiver's cancellation, unless the employee filed a new waiver of Basic insurance with the employing office before the end of the pay period during which the coverage became effective.
§ 870.502
Basic insurance: Waiver/cancellation of insurance.
(a) An insured individual may cancel his/her Basic insurance at any time by filing a waiver of Basic insurance coverage. An employee files with the employing office. An annuitant files with OPM or other office that administers his/her retirement system. If still employed, a compensationer files with the employing office, and if not still employed, with OPM. The waiver is effective, and the insurance stops, at the end of the pay period in which the waiver is properly filed. Exception: an individual who has assigned his/her insurance under subpart I of this part cannot cancel the insurance.
(b) An individual who cancels his/her Basic insurance automatically cancels all forms of Optional insurance.
§ 870.503
Basic insurance: Cancelling a waiver.
(a) An annuitant or compensationer who has filed a waiver of Basic insurance cannot cancel the waiver.
(b) An employee who has filed a waiver of Basic insurance may cancel the waiver and become insured if:
(1) The employee makes an election during an open enrollment period as described in § 870.507;
(2) At least 1 year has passed since the effective date of the waiver, and the employee provides satisfactory medical evidence of insurability; or
(3) The employee has a change in family circumstances (marriage or divorce, a spouse's death, or acquisition of an eligible child) and files an election as provided in paragraph (b)(3(i), (b)(3)(ii), or (b)(3)(iii) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii), the effective date of Basic insurance elected under this paragraph (b)(3) is the 1st day the employee actually enters on duty in a pay status on or after the day the employing office receives the election.
(i) An employee must file an election under this paragraph with the employing office, in a manner designated by OPM, along with proof of the event, no later than 60 calendar days following the date of the change in family circumstances that permits the election; the employee may also file the election before the event and provide proof no later than 60 calendar days following the event.
(ii) An employee making an election under this paragraph based on acquisition of an eligible foster child must file the election with the employing office no later than 60 calendar days after completing the required certification.
(iii) Within 6 months after an employee becomes eligible to make an election of Basic insurance due to a change in family circumstances, an employing office may determine that the employee was unable, for reasons
beyond his or her control, to elect Basic insurance within the time limit. In this case, the employee must elect Basic insurance within 60 calendar days after he or she is notified of the determination. The insurance is retroactive to the 1st day of the first pay period beginning after the date the individual became eligible, if the employee was in pay and duty status that day. If the employee was not in pay and duty status that day, the coverage becomes effective the 1st day after the date the employee returned to pay and duty status. The individual must pay the full cost of the Basic insurance from that date for the time that he or she is in pay status.
(c) OFEGLI reviews the employee's request and determines whether the employee complied with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If the employee complied, then OFEGLI approves the Request for Insurance. The Basic insurance is effective on the date of OFEGLI's approval if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the date of OFEGLI's approval, the Basic insurance is effective the first day the employee returns to pay and duty status, as long as it is within 60 calendar days after OFEGLI's approval. If the employee is not in pay and duty status within 60 calendar days after OFEGLI's approval, the approval is revoked automatically.
(d) When an employee who has been separated from service for at least 180 days is reinstated on or after April 1, 1981, a previous waiver of Basic insurance is automatically cancelled. Unless the employee files a new waiver, Basic insurance becomes effective on the 1st day he or she actually enters on duty in pay status in a position in which he or she is eligible for coverage.
Exception:
For employees who waived Basic insurance after February 28, 1981, separated, and returned to Federal service before December 9, 1983, the waiver remained in effect; these employees were permitted to elect Basic insurance by applying to their employing office before March 7, 1984.
(e)(1) An employee of the Department of Defense who is designated as an “emergency essential employee” under section 1580 of title 10, United States Code, may cancel a waiver of Basic insurance without providing satisfactory medical information.
(2) An election of Basic insurance under paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be made within 60 days of being designated “emergency essential.” Basic insurance is effective on the date the employing office receives the election, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the day the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective on the date the employee returns to pay and duty status.
(f)(1) A civilian employee who is eligible for Basic insurance coverage and is deployed in support of a contingency operation as defined by section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code, may cancel a waiver of Basic Insurance without providing satisfactory medical information.
(2) An election of Basic insurance under paragraph (f)(1) of this section must be made within 60 days after the date of notification of deployment in support of a contingency operation. Basic insurance is effective on the date the employing office receives the election, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the day the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective on the date the employee returns to pay and duty status.
[75 FR 60578, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.504
Optional insurance: Election.
(a)(1) Each employee must elect or waive Option A, Option B, and Option C coverage, in a manner designated by OPM, within 60 days after becoming eligible unless, during earlier employment, he or she filed an election or waiver that remains in effect. The 60-day time limit for Option B or Option C begins on the 1st day after February 28, 1981, on which an individual is an
employee
as defined in § 870.101.
(2) An employee of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority who elects to be considered a Federal employee under section 153 of Public Law 104-134 (110 Stat. 1321) must elect or waive Option A, Option B, and Option C
coverage within 31 days after the later of:
(i) The date his or her employment with the Authority begins, or
(ii) The date the Authority receives his or her election to be considered a Federal employee.
(3) Within 6 months after an employee becomes eligible, an employing office may determine that the employee was unable, for reasons beyond his or her control, to elect any type of Optional insurance within the time limit. In this case, the employee must elect or waive that type of Optional insurance within 60 days after being notified of the determination. The insurance is retroactive to the 1st day of the 1st pay period beginning after the date the individual became eligible (or after April 1, 1981, whichever is later), if the employee was in pay and duty status that day. If the employee was not in pay and duty status that day, the coverage becomes effective the 1st day after the date the employee returned to pay and duty status. The individual must pay the full cost of the Optional insurance from that date for the time that he or she is in pay status (or retired or receiving compensation with unreduced Optional insurance).
(b) Any employee who does not file a Life Insurance Election with his or her employing office, in a manner designated by OPM, specifically electing any type of Optional insurance, is considered to have waived it and does not have that type of Optional insurance.
(c) For the purpose of having Option A as an employee, an election of this insurance filed on or before February 28, 1981, is considered to have been cancelled effective at the end of the pay period which included March 31, 1981, unless the employee did not actually enter on duty in pay status during the 1st pay period that began on or after April 1, 1981. In that case, the election is considered to have been cancelled on the 1st day after the end of the next pay period in which the employee actually entered on duty in pay status. In order to have Option A as an employee after the date of this cancellation, an employee must specifically elect the coverage by filing the Life Insurance Election with his or her employing office, subject to § 870.504(a) or 870.506(b).
(d) Optional insurance is effective the 1st day an employee actually enters on duty in pay status on or after the day the employing office receives the election. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the date the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective the next date that the employee is in pay and duty status.
(e) For an employee whose Optional insurance stopped for a reason other than a waiver, the insurance is reinstated on the 1st day he or she actually enters on duty in pay status in a position in which he or she again becomes eligible.
[75 FR 60578, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.505
Optional insurance: Waiver/cancellation of insurance.
(a) An insured individual may cancel entirely any type of Optional insurance, or reduce the number of multiples of his/her Option B insurance, at any time by filing a waiver of Optional insurance coverage. An employee files with the employing office. An annuitant files with OPM or other office that administers his/her retirement system. If still employed, a compensationer files with the employing office, and if not still employed, with OPM. Exception: an individual who has assigned his/her insurance under subpart I of this part cannot cancel Option A or Option B coverage.
(b) A cancellation of Optional insurance becomes effective, and Optional insurance stops, at the end of the pay period in which the waiver is properly filed. Exception: if Option C is cancelled because there are no eligible family members, the effective date is retroactive to the end of the pay period in which there stopped being any eligible family members.
(c) A waiver of Optional insurance remains in effect until it is cancelled as provided in § 870.506.
§ 870.506
Optional insurance: Cancelling a waiver.
(a)
When there is a change in family circumstances
(
see
§ 870.503(b)(3)). (1) An employee may cancel a waiver of Options A, B, and C due to a change in family circumstances as provided in
paragraphs (a)(2) through (6) of this section.
(2) An employee who has waived Options A and B coverage may elect coverage, and an employee who has fewer than 5 multiples of Option B may increase the number of multiples, upon his or her marriage or divorce, upon a spouse's death, or upon acquisition of an eligible child.
(3) An employee electing or increasing Option B coverage may elect any number of multiples, as long as the total number of multiples does not exceed 5.
(4)(i) An employee who has waived Option C coverage may elect it, and an employee who has fewer than 5 multiples of Option C may increase the number of multiples, upon his or her marriage or acquisition of an eligible child. An employee may also elect or increase Option C coverage upon divorce or death of a spouse, if the employee has any eligible children.
(ii) An employee electing or increasing Option C coverage may elect any number of multiples, as long as the total number of multiples does not exceed 5.
(5)(i) Except as stated in paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section, the employee must file an election under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(4) of this section with the employing office, in a manner designated by OPM, along with proof of the event, no later than 60 calendar days following the date of the event that permits the election; the employee may also file the election before the event and provide proof no later than 60 calendar days following the event.
(ii) An employee making an election under paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section following the acquisition of an eligible foster child must file the election with the employing office no later than 60 calendar days after completing the required certification.
(iii) In the case of an employee who had a change in family circumstances between October 30, 1998, and April 23, 1999, an election under this section must have been made on or before June 23, 1999.
(iv) Within 6 months after an employee becomes eligible to make an election due to a change in family circumstances, an employing office may determine that the employee was unable, for reasons beyond his or her control, to elect or increase Optional insurance within the time limit. In this case, the employee must elect or increase Optional insurance within 60 calendar days after he or she is notified of the determination. The insurance is retroactive to the 1st day of the first pay period beginning after the date the individual became eligible if the employee was in pay and duty status that day. If the employee was not in pay and duty status that day, the coverage becomes effective the 1st day after that date the employee returned to pay and duty status. The individual must pay the full cost of the Optional insurance from that date for the time that he or she is in pay status.
(6)(i) The effective date of Options A and B insurance elected under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is the 1st day the employee actually enters on duty in pay status on or after the day the employing office receives the election.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(5)(iii) and (a)(6)(iv) of this section, the effective date of Option C coverage elected because of marriage, divorce, death of a spouse, or acquisition of an eligible child is the day the employing office receives the election, or the date of the event, whichever is later.
Exception:
Coverage elected under paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section was effective April 24, 1999.
(iii) The effective date of Option C coverage elected because of the acquisition of a foster child is the date the employing office receives the election or the date the employee completes the certification, whichever is later.
(iv) If the employee does not elect Basic insurance and Option C together (and did not have Basic insurance before), then Option C becomes effective the same day as his or her Basic insurance becomes effective.
(b)
When there is no change in family circumstances.
(1) An employee who has waived Option A or Option B coverage may cancel the waiver and elect coverage if:
(i) The employee makes an election during an open enrollment period; or
(ii) At least 1 year has passed since the effective date of the waiver, and the employee provides satisfactory medical evidence of insurability.
(2) An employee who has Option B coverage of fewer than five multiples of annual pay may increase the number of multiples if at least 1 year has passed since the effective date of his or her last election of fewer than five multiples (including a reduction in the number of multiples), and the employee provides satisfactory medical evidence of insurability.
(3) A waiver of Option C may be cancelled only if there is a change in family circumstances or during an open enrollment period.
(c) OFEGLI reviews the employee's request and determines whether the employee complied with paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(2) of this section. If the employee complied, then OFEGLI approves the Request for Insurance. The Option A and B insurance is effective on the date of OFEGLI's approval, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the date of OFEGLI's approval, the insurance is effective the first day the employee returns to pay and duty status, as long as it is within 60 calendar days of OFEGLI's approval. If the employee is not in pay and duty status within 60 calendar days after OFEGLI's approval, the approval is revoked automatically.
(d) If an employee waived Option A insurance on or before February 28, 1981, the waiver was automatically cancelled effective on the 1st day the employee entered on duty in pay status on or after April 1, 1981. Option A coverage was effective on the date of the waiver's cancellation, if the employee filed an election of Option A during the March 1, 1981, through March 31, 1981, open enrollment period. If the employee did not file the election with his or her employing office during the March 1981 open enrollment period, the employee is considered to have waived Option A on March 31, 1981.
(e) When an employee who has been separated from service for at least 180 days is reinstated on or after April 1, 1981, a previous waiver of Optional insurance is automatically cancelled, as follows:
(1) An employee who returned to service between April 1, 1981, and December 8, 1983, after a 180-day break in service was permitted to elect any form of Optional insurance by applying to his or her employing office before March 7, 1984.
(2) An employee who returns to service after December 8, 1983, following a 180-day break in service may elect any form of Optional insurance by applying to his or her employing office within 60 calendar days after reinstatement. Coverage is effective on the 1st day the employee actually enters on duty in pay status in a position in which he or she is eligible for insurance on or after the date the employing office receives the election. If the employee does not file a Life Insurance Election in a manner designated by OPM within the 60-day period, the employee has whatever Optional insurance coverage he or she had immediately before separating from Federal service and is considered to have waived any other Optional insurance. However, an employee who fails to file an election during the 60-day period due to reasons beyond his or her control may enroll belatedly under the conditions stated in § 870.504(a)(3).
(f)(1) An employee of the Department of Defense who is designated as “emergency essential” under section 1580 of title 10, United States Code, may cancel a waiver of Option A and Option B insurance.
(2) An election of Option A or Option B insurance under paragraph (f)(1) must be made within 60 days of being designated “emergency essential.” Optional insurance is effective on the date the employing office receives the election, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the day the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective on the date the employee returns to pay and duty status.
(g)(1) A civilian employee who is eligible for life insurance coverage and who is deployed in support of a contingency operation as defined by section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code, may cancel a waiver of Option A and/or Option B insurance.
(2) An election of Optional insurance under paragraph (g)(1) of this section
must be made within 60 days after the date of notification of deployment in support of a contingency operation. Optional insurance is effective on the date the employing office receives the election, if the employee is in pay and duty status on that date. If the employee is not in pay and duty status on the day the employing office receives the election, the coverage becomes effective on the date the employee returns to pay and duty status.
(h) An annuitant or compensationer is not eligible to cancel a waiver of any type of Optional insurance or to increase multiples of Option B under this section.
[75 FR 60579, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.507
Open enrollment periods.
(a) There are no regularly scheduled open enrollment periods for life insurance. Open enrollment periods are held only when specifically scheduled by OPM.
(b) During an open enrollment period, unless OPM announces otherwise, eligible employees may cancel their existing waivers of Basic and/or Optional insurance by electing the insurance in a manner designated by OPM.
(c)(1) OPM sets the effective date for all insurance elected during an open enrollment period. The newly elected insurance is effective on the 1st day of the 1st pay period that begins on or after the OPM-established date and that follows a pay period during which the employee was in pay and duty status for at least 32 hours, unless OPM announces otherwise.
(2) A part-time employee must be in pay and duty status for one-half the regularly-scheduled tour of duty shown on his or her current Standard Form 50 for newly-elected coverage to become effective, unless OPM announces otherwise.
(3) An employee who has no regularly-scheduled tour of duty or who is employed on an intermittent basis must be in pay and duty status for one-half the hours customarily worked before newly-elected coverage can become effective, unless OPM announces otherwise. For the purpose of this paragraph, an employing office may determine the number of hours customarily worked by averaging the number of hours worked in the most recent calendar year quarter prior to the start of the open enrollment period.
(d) Within 6 months after an open enrollment period ends, an employing office may determine that an employee was unable, for reasons beyond his or her control, to cancel an existing waiver by electing to be insured during the open enrollment period. An election under this paragraph must be submitted within 60 days after being notified of the determination. Coverage is retroactive to the first pay period that begins on or after the effective date set by OPM and that follows a pay period during which the employee was in pay and duty status for at least 32 hours, unless OPM announces otherwise. If the employee does not file an election within this 60-day time limit, he or she will be considered to have waived coverage.
[75 FR 60579, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.508
Nonpay status.
(a) An employee who is in nonpay status is entitled to continue life insurance for up to 12 months. No premium payments are required, unless the employee is receiving compensation.
(b) If an insured employee who is entitled to free insurance while in nonpay status accepts a temporary appointment to a position in which he or she would normally be excluded from insurance coverage, the insurance continues. The amount of Basic insurance (and Option B coverage if the employee has it) is based on the combined salaries of the two positions. Withholdings are made from the employee's pay in the temporary position.
(c) If an insured employee goes on leave without pay (LWOP) to serve as a full-time officer or employee of an employee organization, he or she may elect in writing to continue life insurance within 60 days after the beginning of the LWOP. The insurance continues for the length of the appointment, even if the LWOP lasts longer than 12 months. The employee must pay to the employing office the full cost of Basic and Optional insurance starting with the beginning of the nonpay status; the employee is not entitled to 12 months of free coverage. There is no Government contribution for these employees.
(d) If an insured employee goes on LWOP while assigned to a State government, local government, or institution of higher education, the employee may elect in writing to continue the life insurance for the length of the assignment, even if the LWOP lasts longer than 12 months. The employee must pay his or her premiums to the Federal agency on a current basis starting with the beginning of the nonpay status; the employee is not entitled to 12 months of free coverage. The agency must continue to pay its contribution as long as the employee makes his or her payments.
[75 FR 60579, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.509
Transfers to international organizations.
An employee transferred to an international organization may continue life insurance coverage as provided in 5 U.S.C. 3582. Regulations governing these transfers are in part 352 of this title.
§ 870.510
Continuation of eligibility for former Federal employees of the Civilian Marksmanship Program.
(a) A Federal employee who was employed by the Department of Defense to support the Civilian Marksmanship Program as of the day before the date of the transfer of the Program to the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety, and was offered and accepted employment by the Corporation as part of the transition described in section 1612(d) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 517, is deemed to be an employee for purposes of this part during continuous employment with the Corporation unless the individual files an election under § 831.206(c) or § 842.109(c) of this title. Such a covered individual is treated as if he or she were a Federal employee for purposes of this part, and of any other part within this title relating to FEGLI. The individual is entitled to the benefits of, and is subject to all conditions under, FEGLI on the same basis as if the individual were an employee of the Federal Government.
(b) Cessation of employment with the Corporation for any period terminates eligibility for coverage under FEGLI as an employee during any subsequent employment by the Corporation.
(c) The Corporation must withhold from the pay of an individual described by paragraph (a) of this section an amount equal to the premiums withheld from the pay of a Federal employee for FEGLI coverage and, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Employees' Life Insurance Fund the amounts deducted from the individual's pay.
(d) The Corporation must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Employees' Life Insurance Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions required under FEGLI.
[74 FR 66566, Dec. 16, 2009]

# Subpart F—Termination and Conversion
§ 870.601
Termination of Basic insurance.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section or § 870.701, the Basic insurance of an insured employee stops on the date the employee separates from service, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage.
Exception:
If the employee was employed by the Architect of the Capitol as a Senate Restaurants employee the day before the food services operations of the Senate Restaurants were transferred to a private business concern and the employee accepted employment by the business concern and elected to continue his or her Federal retirement benefits and FEGLI coverage, the employee continues to be eligible for FEGLI coverage as long as he or she remains employed by the business concern or its successor.
(b) The Basic insurance of an employee who separates from service after meeting the requirement for an immediate annuity under § 842.204(a)(1) of this chapter and who postpones receiving the annuity, as provided by § 842.204(c) of this chapter (an MRA+10 annuity), stops on the date he or she separates from service, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage.
(c) The Basic insurance of an insured employee who moves without a break in service to a position in which he or she is excluded from life insurance
stops on the last day of employment in the former position, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage.
Exception:
If the position is excluded by regulation (not by law), and the employee does not have a break in service of more than three days, the Basic insurance continues.
(d)(1) Except as provided in § 870.701, the Basic insurance of an insured employee who is in nonpay status stops on the date the employee completes 12 months in nonpay status, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage. The 12 months' nonpay status may be broken by periods of less than 4 consecutive months in pay status. If an employee has at least 4 consecutive months in pay status after a period of nonpay status, he or she is entitled to begin the 12 months' continuation of Basic insurance again. If an employee has used up his or her 12 months' continuation in nonpay status and returns to duty for less than 4 consecutive months, his or her Basic insurance stops on the 32nd day after the last day of the last pay period in pay status.
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, 4 consecutive months in pay status means any 4-month period during which the employee is in pay status for at least part of each pay period.
(3)(i) For the purpose of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an individual who is entitled to benefits under part 353 of this chapter (USERRA—Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994), who separates to go on military duty instead of going into a nonpay status, is treated as an employee in nonpay status for life insurance purposes.
(ii) Basic insurance continues free for 12 months or until 90 days after military service ends, whichever comes first.
(iii) Effective January 28, 2008, an employee who enters on active duty, or active duty for training in one of the uniformed services for more than 30 days, may continue enrollment for an additional 12 months, for a total of up to 24 months.
(A) Each agency must notify its employees of the opportunity to elect to continue coverage for the additional 12 months.
(B) An employee wanting coverage for the additional 12 months must elect it prior to the end of the first 12 months in nonpay status, in a manner designated by the employing agency.
(C) Insurance continues free for the first 12 months; however, an employee must pay both the employee and agency share of premiums to the agency on a current basis for Basic coverage, and must pay the entire cost (there is no agency share) for any Optional insurance for the additional 12 months of coverage elected.
(D) For an employee who does not elect to continue coverage for an additional 12 months, coverage terminates at the end of the first 12 months in nonpay status subject to the 31-day extension of coverage and conversion rights as provided in § 870.603 of this part.
(e) Except for employees, annuitants, and compensationers who elect direct payment as provided in § 870.405 of this part, Basic insurance stops, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage, at the end of the pay period in which the employing office or retirement system determines that an individual's periodic pay, annuity, or compensation, after all other deductions, is not enough to cover the full cost of Basic insurance.
[75 FR 60581, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.602
Termination of Optional insurance.
(a) The Optional insurance of an insured employee stops when his or her Basic insurance stops, subject to the same 31-day extension of coverage.
(b) The Optional insurance of an employee who separates from service after meeting the requirement for an immediate annuity under § 842.204(a)(1) of this chapter and who postpones receiving the annuity, as provided by § 842.204(c) of this chapter (an MRA+10 annuity), stops on the date he or she separates from service, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage.
Exception:
If the employee was employed by the Architect of the Capitol as a Senate Restaurants employee the day before the food services operations of the Senate Restaurants were transferred to a private business concern and the employee accepted employment with the
business concern and elected to continue his or her Federal retirement benefits and FEGLI coverage, the employee continues to be eligible for FEGLI coverage as long as he or she remains employed by the business concern or its successor.
(c)(1) If an insured employee is not eligible to continue Optional coverage as an annuitant or compensationer as provided by § 870.701, the Optional insurance stops on the date that his or her Basic insurance is continued or reinstated under § 870.701, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage.
(d) If, at the time of an individual's election of Basic insurance during receipt of annuity or compensation, he or she elects no Basic life insurance as provided by § 870.702(a)(1), the Optional insurance stops at the end of the month in which the election is received in OPM, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage.
(e) Except for employees, annuitants, and compensationers who elect direct payment as provided in § 870.405, Optional insurance stops, subject to a 31-day extension of coverage, at the end of the pay period in which the employing office or retirement system determines that an individual's periodic pay, annuity, or compensation, after all other deductions, is not enough to cover the full cost of the Optional insurance. If an individual has more than one type of Optional insurance and his or her pay, annuity, or compensation is sufficient to cover some but not all of the insurance, the multiples of Option C terminate first, followed by Option A, and then the multiples of Option B.
[75 FR 60581, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.603
Conversion of Basic and Optional insurance.
(a)(1) When group coverage terminates for any reason other than voluntary cancellation, an employee may apply to convert all or any part of his or her Basic and Optional insurance to an individual policy; no medical examination is required. The premiums for the individual policy are based on the employee's age and class of risk. An employee is eligible to convert the policy only if he or she does not return, within 3 calendar days from the terminating event, to a position covered under the group plan.
Exception:
If an employee is unable to convert, a person having power of attorney for that employee may convert on his or her behalf. If insurance has been assigned under subpart I of this part, it is the assignee(s), not the employee, who has (have) the right to convert.
(2) The employing agency must notify the employee/assignee(s) of the loss of coverage and the right to convert to an individual policy either before or immediately after the event causing the loss of coverage.
(3) The employee/assignee(s) must submit the request for conversion information to OFEGLI. OFEGLI must receive the request for conversion within 31 calendar days of the date on the conversion notification the employee receives from the employing agency (60 days if overseas) or within 60 calendar days after the date of the terminating event (90 days, if overseas), whichever is earlier.
(4) If the employee does not request conversion information within the specified time period as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the employee is considered to have refused coverage unless OFEGLI determines the failure was for reasons beyond the employee's control, as described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(5) When an agency fails to provide the notification required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or the employee/assignee fails to request conversion information within the time limit set in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for reasons beyond his or her control, the employee may make a belated request by writing to OFEGLI. The employee/assignee must make the request within 6 months after becoming eligible to convert the insurance. The employee/assignee must show that he or she was not notified of the loss of coverage and the right to convert and was not otherwise aware of it or that he or she was unable to convert to an individual policy for reasons beyond his or her control. OFEGLI will determine if the employee/assignee is eligible to convert. If the request is approved, the employee must convert within 31 calendar days of that determination.
(b) The individual conversion policy is effective the day after the group coverage ends. The employee/assignee must pay the premiums for any period retroactive to that date.
(c) The 31-day extension of coverage provided under this subpart does not depend upon timely notification of the right to convert to an individual policy. The extension cannot be continued beyond 31 days.
(d) Family members may convert Option C coverage (and name beneficiaries of their choice) if:
(1) The employee dies; or
(2) The insurance stops under circumstances that allow the employee to convert Option C coverage but the employee does not convert.
(e) If an employee with Option C coverage dies, the employing office must send a conversion notice to the family members at the employee's last address on file.
(f) Family members must submit the request for conversion information to OFEGLI. OFEGLI must receive the request for conversion within 31 calendar days of the date on the conversion notification the employee receives from his or her employing agency (60 days if overseas) or within 60 calendar days after the date of the terminating event (90 days, if overseas), whichever is earlier. There is no extension to these time limits. Family members are considered to have refused coverage if they do not request conversion within these time limits.
(g) The family members' conversion policy is effective at the end of the employee's 31-day extension of coverage.
[75 FR 60581, Oct. 1, 2010]

# Subpart G—Annuitants and Compensationers
§ 870.701
Eligibility for life insurance.
(a) When an insured employee retires, Basic life insurance (but not accidental death and dismemberment) continues or is reinstated if he/she:
(1) Is entitled to retire on an immediate annuity under a retirement system for civilian employees, including the retirement system of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard;
(2) Was insured for the 5 years of service immediately before the date the annuity starts, or for the full period(s) of service during which he/she was eligible to be insured if less than 5 years; and
(3) Has not converted to an individual policy as described in § 870.603. If it is determined that an individual is eligible to continue the group coverage as an annuitant after he/she has already converted to an individual policy, the group enrollment may be reinstated. If the individual wants the group coverage reinstated, the conversion policy must be voided, the group policy must be reinstated retroactively, and the premiums already paid on the conversion policy must be refunded to the individual.
(b) Following separation or the completion of 12 months' nonpay status, a compensationer's Basic life insurance (but not accidental death and dismemberment) continues or is reinstated if he/she:
(1) Has been insured for the 5 years of service immediately before the date of entitlement to compensation, or for the full period(s) of service during which he/she was eligible to be insured if less than 5 years; and
(2) Has not converted to an individual policy as described in § 870.603. If it is not determined that an individual is eligible to continue the group coverage as a compensationer until after he/she has converted, the group enrollment may be reinstated. If the individual wants the group coverage reinstated, the conversion policy must be voided, the group policy must be reinstated retroactively, and the premiums already paid on the conversion policy must be refunded to the individual.
(c) An individual who meets the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section or § 870.706 for continuation or reinstatement of life insurance must complete an election, in a manner designated by OPM, at the time entitlement is established. For the election to be valid, OPM must receive the election before OPM has made a final decision on the individual's application for annuity or supplemental annuity or an
individual's request to continue life insurance as a compensationer. If there is no valid election, OPM considers the individual to have chosen the option described in § 870.703(a)(2).
(d) If the annuity or compensation of an insured individual is terminated, or if the Department of Labor finds that an insured compensationer is able to return to duty, his/her Basic life insurance held as an annuitant or compensationer stops on the date of the termination or finding. There is no 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right.
(e)(1) An annuitant or compensationer who is eligible to continue or have reinstated Basic insurance is also eligible to continue or have reinstated Optional insurance if he/she meets the same coverage requirements for Optional insurance as those stated in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section for Basic insurance.
(2) For the purpose of continuing insurance as an annuitant or compensationer, an employee is not considered to have been eligible for Option C during any period when the employee had no eligible family members.
(f) An individual's period of coverage in a life insurance plan is credited to the 5 years of service under paragraph (a)(2) of this section if:
(1) He/she participated in the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) life insurance plan and transferred to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203; and
(2) Elected FEGLI coverage during the special enrollment period between June 1, 2012 and July 29, 2012. Evidence of the non-FEGLI period of continuous coverage will be documented in a manner designated by OPM.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 75 FR 60583, Oct. 1, 2010; 81 FR 60236, Sept. 1, 2016]
§ 870.702
Amount of Basic insurance.
(a) The amount of Basic insurance an annuitant or compensationer can continue is the BIA on the date insurance would otherwise have stopped because of the individual's separation from service or completion of 12 months in nonpay status. The amount of Basic insurance in force is the BIA minus any reductions applicable under § 870.703(a).
(b)(1) For the purpose of paying benefits upon the death of an insured individual under age 45 who is retired or receiving compensation, the BIA will be multiplied by the appropriate age factor shown in § 870.202(c) of this part. Exceptions:
(i) If the insured individual retired or became insured as a compensationer before October 10, 1980, or
(ii) If the insured individual elected a partial Living Benefit as an employee under subpart K of this part.
(2)(i) For an annuitant or compensationer who elected a partial Living Benefit as an employee, the amount of Basic insurance he or she can continue is the post-election BIA, as described in § 870.203(a)(2).
(ii) If an employee elected a partial Living Benefit and that employee is under age 45 at the time of death, OFEGLI will multiply the post-election BIA by the appropriate factor, as specified in § 870.202(c), that was in effect on the date that is nine months after the date OFEGLI received the completed Living Benefit application.
[64 FR 72463, Dec. 28, 1999, as amended at 75 FR 60583, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.703
Election of Basic insurance.
(a) An individual who makes an election under § 870.701(c) and who has not elected a Living Benefit must select one of the options in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. No one else can make this election on the individual's behalf.
(1)
Termination of the insurance.
The individual's insurance stops upon conversion to an individual policy as provided under § 870.603. If the individual does not convert to an individual policy, insurance stops at the end of the month in which OPM or the employing office receives the election;
(2)
Continuation or reinstatement of Basic insurance with a maximum reduction of 75 percent during retirement.
Premiums are withheld from annuity or compensation (except as provided under § 870.401(d)(1)). The amount of Basic Life insurance in force reduces by 2 percent of the BIA each month until the maximum reduction is
reached. This reduction starts at the beginning of the 2nd month after the date the insurance would otherwise have stopped or the date of the insured's 65th birthday, whichever is later;
(3)
Continuation or reinstatement of Basic insurance with a maximum reduction of 50 percent during retirement.
Premiums are withheld from annuity or compensation. The amount of Basic insurance in force reduces by 1 percent of the BIA each month until the maximum reduction is reached. This reduction starts at the beginning of the 2nd month after the date the insurance would otherwise have stopped or the date of the insured's 65th birthday, whichever is later; or
(4)
Continuation or reinstatement of Basic insurance with no reduction after age 65.
Premiums are withheld from annuity or compensation.
(b)(1) Unless an employee has elected a partial Living Benefit under subpart K of this part or an individual has assigned the insurance under subpart I of this part, an insured individual may cancel an election under paragraph (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section at any time. The amount of Basic insurance automatically switches to the amount that would have been in force if the individual had originally elected the 75 percent reduction. This revised amount is effective at the end of the month in which OPM receives the request to cancel the previous election. There is no refund of premiums.
(2) If an individual files a waiver of insurance, the coverage stops without a 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right. Coverage ceases at the end of the month in which OPM received the waiver.
(c) Unless he/she chooses to terminate his/her insurance, an employee who has elected a partial Living Benefit must choose the no reduction election under paragraph (a)(4) of this section. The employee cannot later change to the 75 percent reduction.
(d) If an employee has assigned his or her insurance, he/she cannot cancel an election under paragraph (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section. Only the assignee(s) may cancel this election. Exception: If the employee elected a partial Living Benefit before assigning the remainder of his or her insurance, the assignee(s) cannot cancel the election under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(e)(1) For purposes of this part, a judge who retires under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section is considered to be an employee after retirement:
(ii) 28 U.S.C. 372(a);
(iii) 28 U.S.C. 377;
(iv) 26 U.S.C. 7447;
(v) 11 DC Code 776;
(vi) Section 7447 of the Internal Revenue Code;
(vii) 38 U.S.C. 7296;
(2) The insurance of a judge described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not reduce after age 65. Basic insurance continues without interruption or reduction.
Exception:
If the insured is a judge eligible for compensation, and chooses to receive compensation instead of annuity, he or she must select an option described in paragraph (a) of this section.
[75 FR 60583, Oct. 1, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 60048, Sept. 24, 2020]
§ 870.704
Amount of Option A.
(a) The amount of Option A coverage an annuitant or compensationer can continue is $10,000.
(b) An annuitant's or compensationer's Option A coverage reduces by 2 percent of the original amount each month up to a maximum reduction of 75 percent. This reduction starts at the beginning of the 2nd month after the date the insurance would otherwise have stopped or the beginning of the 2nd month after the date of the insured's 65th birthday, whichever is later.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to a judge who retires under one of the provisions listed in § 870.703(e)(1). For purposes of this part, such a judge is considered to be an employee after retirement, and Option A insurance continues without interruption or reduction.
Exception:
If the judge is eligible for compensation and chooses to receive compensation instead of annuity, paragraph (b) of this section applies.
[75 FR 60583, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.705
Amount and election of Option B and Option C.
(a) The number of multiples of Option B and Option C coverage an annuitant or compensationer can continue is the highest number of multiples in force during the applicable period of service required to continue Option B and Option C.
(b)(1)(i) At the time an employee retires or becomes insured as a compensationer, he or she must elect the number of allowable multiples he or she wishes to continue during retirement or while receiving compensation.
(ii) An employee who elects to continue fewer multiples than the number for which he or she is eligible is considered to have cancelled the multiples that are not continued.
(iii) An employee separating for retirement and an employee becoming insured as a compensationer on or after April 24, 1999, must choose the level of post-age-65 reduction he or she wants. There are two choices: Full Reduction and No Reduction. The election may be made only by the employee and must be made in the manner that OPM designates. The employee may make different elections for Option B and for Option C. He or she may choose Full Reduction for some multiples of an Option and No Reduction for other multiples of the same Option. Failure to make an election for Option B or for Option C will be considered to be an election of Full Reduction for all multiples of that Option.
(iv) For purposes of this part, a judge who retires under one of the provisions listed in § 870.703(e)(1) is considered to be an employee after retirement. The insurance of such a judge does not reduce after age 65.
Exception:
If the judge is eligible for compensation and chooses to receive compensation instead of annuity, the post-65 reductions and elections apply.
(2)(i) Prior to reaching age 65, an annuitant or compensationer can change from No Reduction to Full Reduction at any time.
Exception:
If the individual has assigned his or her insurance as provided in subpart I of this part, only the assignee can change from No Reduction to Full Reduction for the Option B coverage.
(3)(i) After reaching age 65, an annuitant or compensationer can change from No Reduction to Full Reduction at any time.
Exception:
If the individual has assigned his or her insurance as provided in subpart I of this part, only the assignee can change from No Reduction to Full Reduction for the Option B coverage. If an individual age 65 or over changes to Full Reduction, the amount of insurance in force is computed as if he or she had elected Full Reduction initially. There is no refund of premiums.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, after reaching age 65, an annuitant or compensationer cannot change from Full Reduction to No Reduction.
(4)(i) Shortly before an annuitant or compensationer's 65th birthday, an annuitant's retirement system will send a reminder about the post-age-65 reduction election he/she made and will offer the individual a chance to change the initial election made at the time of retirement.
(ii) If the individual is already 65 or older at the time of retirement or becoming insured as a compensationer, the retirement system will process the retirement using the current Continuation of Life Insurance Coverage (SF 2818) on file, send the reminder, and give the opportunity to change the election as soon as the retirement processing or compensation transfer is complete.
(iii) If the individual assigned his/her insurance as provided in subpart I of this part, and if the employee elected No Reduction for Option B coverage at the time of retirement or becoming insured as a compensationer, the retirement system will send the reminder notice for Option B coverage to the assignee.
(iv) An annuitant or compensationer who wishes to change his/her reduction election must return the notice by the end of the month following the month in which the individual turns 65, or if already over age 65, by the end of the 4th month after the date of the letter. An annuitant or compensationer who does not return the election notice will keep his/her initial election or the default election, as applicable.
(c)(1) For each multiple of Option B and/or Option C for which an individual elects Full Reduction, the coverage reduces by 2 percent of the original amount each month. This reduction starts at the beginning of the 2nd month after the date the insurance would otherwise have stopped or the beginning of the 2nd month after the insured's 65th birthday, whichever is later. At 12:00 noon on the day before the 50th reduction, the insurance stops, with no extension of coverage or conversion right.
(2) For each multiple of Option B and/or Option C for which an individual elects No Reduction, the coverage in force does not reduce. After age 65 the annuitant or compensationer continues to pay premiums appropriate to his or her age.
(d)(1) An employee who was already retired or insured as a compensationer on April 24, 1999, and who had Option B, was given an opportunity to make an election for Option B.
(i) Annuitants and compensationers who were under age 65 were notified of the option to elect No Reduction. The retirement system will send these individuals an actual election notice before their 65th birthday, as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(ii) Each such annuitant or compensationer who was age 65 or older on April 24, 1999, and who still had some Option B coverage remaining, was given the opportunity to stop further reductions. The individual had until October 24, 1999, to make the No Reduction election. The amount of Option B coverage retained was the amount in effect on April 24, 1999. Each annuitant or compensationer who elected No Reduction was required to pay premiums retroactive to April 24, 1999.
(2) An employee who was already retired or insured as a compensationer on April 24, 1999, could not elect No Reduction for Option C.
[75 FR 60583, Oct. 1, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 26998, May 5, 2016]
§ 870.706
Reinstatement of life insurance.
(a) An annuitant whose disability annuity terminates because he/she recovers from the disability or because his/her earning capacity returns, and whose disability annuity is later restored under 5 U.S.C. 8337(e) (after December 31, 1983), may elect to resume the Basic insurance held immediately before his/her disability annuity terminated. OPM must receive the election within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of insurance eligibility and an election form.
(b) An annuitant described in paragraph (a) of this section may elect to resume any Optional insurance held immediately before the annuity terminated if:
(1) He/she has made an election under paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) OPM receives the election within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of insurance eligibility and an election form.
(c) Basic and Optional insurance reinstated under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is effective on the 1st day of the month after the date OPM receives the election. Any applicable annuity withholdings are also reinstated on the 1st day of the month after OPM receives the election.
(d) The amounts of Basic and Optional insurance reinstated under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are the amounts that would have been in force if the individual's annuity hadn't terminated.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997; 62 FR 52181, Oct. 6, 1997. Redesignated at 64 FR 72463, Dec. 28, 1999]
§ 870.707
Reemployed annuitants and compensationers.
(a)(1) If an insured annuitant or compensationer is appointed to a position in which he or she is eligible for insurance, the amount of his or her Basic life insurance as a annuitant or compensationer (and any applicable withholdings) is suspended on the day before the 1st day in pay status under the appointment, unless the reemployed annuitant or compensationer waives all insurance coverage as an employee. The Basic insurance benefit payable upon the death of a reemployed annuitant or compensationer who has Basic insurance in force as an employee, cannot be less than the benefit that would have been payable if
the individual had not been reemployed.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Basic insurance obtained as an employee stops with no 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right, on the date reemployment terminates. Any suspended Basic insurance (and any applicable withholdings) is reinstated on the day following termination of the reemployment.
(b) Basic insurance obtained during reemployment can be continued after the reemployment terminates if the individual:
(1) Qualifies for a supplemental annuity or receives a new retirement right (or if a compensationer, he or she worked an amount of time equivalent to that required for an annuitant to qualify for a supplemental annuity);
(2) Has had Basic insurance as an employee for at least 5 years of service immediately before separation from reemployment or for the full period(s) during which such coverage was available to the individual, whichever is less; and
(3) Does not convert to nongroup insurance when Basic insurance as an employee would otherwise terminate.
(c) If the Basic insurance obtained during reemployment is continued as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any suspended Basic life insurance stops, with no 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right.
(d)(1) An annuitant or compensationer appointed to a position in which he or she is eligible for Basic insurance is also eligible for Optional insurance as an employee, unless he or she has on file an uncancelled waiver of Basic or Optional insurance.
(2) If the individual has Option A or C as an annuitant, that insurance (and applicable withholdings) is suspended on the day before his or her 1st day in pay status under the appointment. Unless he or she waives Option A or C (or waives Basic insurance), the individual obtains Option A or C as an employee.
(3) If the individual has Option B as an annuitant or compensationer, that insurance (and applicable withholdings) continues as if the individual were not reemployed, unless:
(i) The individual files with his/her employing office an election of Option B, in a manner designated by OPM, within 60 calendar days after the date of reemployment. In this case Option B (and applicable withholdings) as an annuitant or compensationer is suspended on the date that Option B as an employee becomes effective; or
(ii) The individual waives Basic insurance.
(4) The Option B benefit payable upon the death of a reemployed annuitant or compensationer is the amount in effect as an annuitant or compensationer, unless the individual elected to have Option B as an employee.
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the Optional insurance obtained as an employee stops, with no 31-day extension or conversion right, on the date reemployment terminates. The amount of suspended Optional insurance that remains in force after applicable monthly reductions after age 65 (and corresponding withholdings) is reinstated on the day after reemployment terminates.
(e) Optional life insurance obtained during reemployment may be continued after the reemployment terminates if the annuitant:
(1) Qualifies for a supplemental annuity or receives a new retirement right (or if a compensationer, he or she worked an amount of time equivalent to that required for an annuitant to qualify for a supplemental annuity);
(2) Continues Basic life insurance under § 870.703(a)(2), (3), or (4); and
(3) Has had Optional insurance as an employee for at least the 5 years of service immediately before separation from reemployment or for the full period(s) of service during which it was available to him or her, whichever is less.
(f) If Optional insurance obtained during reemployment is continued as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, any suspended Optional insurance stops, with no 31-day extension of coverage or conversion right.
(g) If a reemployed annuitant or compensationer waives life insurance as an employee, the waiver also cancels his or her life insurance as an annuitant or compensationer.
[75 FR 60584, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.708
MRA-plus-10 annuitants.
(a) The Basic insurance of an individual whose coverage terminates under § 870.601(b), and who meets the requirements for continuing Basic insurance after retirement as stated in § 870.701(a), resumes on the starting date of annuity or on the date OPM receives the application for annuity, whichever is later. The individual must file an election as provided in § 870.701(c) so that OPM receives it within 60 days after OPM mails a notice of insurance eligibility and an election form.
(b) Optional insurance of an individual whose coverage terminates under § 870.602(b), and who meets the requirements for continuing Optional insurance after retirement under § 870.701(e), resumes on the starting date of annuity or on the date OPM receives the application for annuity, whichever is later.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997. Redesignated at 64 FR 72463, Dec. 28, 1999]

# Subpart H—Order of Precedence and Designation of Beneficiary
§ 870.801
Order of precedence and payment of benefits.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section and § 870.802(g)(2), benefits are paid according to the order of precedence stated in 5 U.S.C. 8705(a), as follows:
(1) To the designated beneficiary (or beneficiaries);
(2) If none, to the widow(er);
(3) If none, to the child, or children in equal shares, with the share of any deceased child going to his or her children;
(4) If none, to the parents in equal shares or the entire amount to the surviving parent;
(5) If none, to the executor or administrator of the estate;
(6) If none, to the next of kin according to the laws of the State in which the insured individual legally resided.
(b) If an insured individual provides in a valid designation of beneficiary for insurance benefits to be payable to the insured's estate, or to the Executor, Administrator, or other representative of the insured's estate, or if the benefits would otherwise be payable to the duly appointed representative of the insured's estate under the order of precedence specified in 5 U.S.C. 8705(a), payment of the benefits to the duly appointed representative of the insured's estate bars recovery by any other person.
(c) Option A and B insurance in force on a person on the date of his/her death is paid, on receipt of a valid claim, in the same order of precedence and under the same conditions as Basic insurance. A designation of beneficiary for Basic insurance is also a designation of beneficiary for Options A and B, unless the insured individual states otherwise in his/her designation.
(d)(1) If there is a court order in effect naming a specific person or persons to receive life insurance benefits upon the death of an insured individual, Basic insurance and Option A and Option B insurance will be paid to the person or persons named in the court order, instead of according to the order of precedence.
(2) To qualify a person for such payment, a certified copy of the court order must be received in the appropriate office before the death of the insured.
(3)(i) For an employee, the appropriate office is the employing agency.
(ii) For an annuitant, the appropriate office is OPM.
(iii) For a compensationer during the first 12 months of nonpay status, the appropriate office is the employing agency.
(iv) For a compensationer after separation or the completion of 12 months in nonpay status, the appropriate office is OPM.
(4) If, within the applicable time frames, the appropriate office receives conflicting court orders entitling different persons to the same insurance, benefits will be paid based on whichever court order was issued first.
(e) Upon the death of an insured family member, Option C benefits are paid to the employee, annuitant, or compensationer responsible for withholdings under § 870.402(a), except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) If an employee, annuitant, or compensationer entitled to receive Option C benefits dies before the benefits are paid, the Option C benefits are paid to the individual(s) entitled to receive Basic life insurance benefits under the statutory order of precedence. However, if the insurance has been assigned in accordance with subpart I of this part, any prior designations of beneficiary were cancelled; benefits in this instance are paid under the statutory order of precedence, starting with the second on the list.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 16602, Apr. 6, 1999; 64 FR 72464, Dec. 28, 1999; 68 FR 59082, Oct. 14, 2003; 75 FR 60585, Oct. 1, 2010; 77 FR 71688, Dec. 4, 2012]
§ 870.802
Designation of beneficiary.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, if an insured individual wants benefits paid differently from the order of precedence, he/she must file a designation of beneficiary. A designation of beneficiary cannot be filed by anyone other than the insured individual. Exception: if the insurance has been assigned under subpart I of this part, the insured individual cannot designate a beneficiary; only the assignee(s) can designate beneficiaries.
(b) A designation of beneficiary must be in writing, signed by the insured individual, and witnessed and signed by 2 people. The completed designation of beneficiary form may be submitted to the appropriate office via appropriate methods approved by the employing office. The appropriate office must receive the designation before the death of the insured.
(1) For an employee, the appropriate office is the employing office.
(2) For an annuitant or compensationer, the appropriate office is OPM.
(c) A designation, change, or cancellation of beneficiary in a will or any other document not witnessed and filed as required by this section has no legal effect with respect to benefits under this chapter.
(d) A witness to a designation of beneficiary cannot be named as a beneficiary.
(e) Any individual, firm, corporation, or legal entity can be named as a beneficiary, except an agency of the Federal or District of Columbia Government.
(f) An insured individual (or an assignee) may change his/her beneficiary at any time without the knowledge or consent of the previous beneficiary. This right cannot be waived or restricted.
(g)(1) A designation of beneficiary is automatically cancelled 31 days after the individual stops being insured.
(2) An assignment under subpart I of this part automatically cancels an insured individual's designation of beneficiary.
(h) An insured individual may provide that a designated beneficiary is entitled to the insurance benefits only if the beneficiary survives him/her for a specified period of time (not more than 30 days). If the beneficiary doesn't survive for the specified period, insurance benefits will be paid as if the beneficiary had died before the insured.
(i)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, if a court order has been received in accordance with § 870.801(d), an insured individual cannot designate a different beneficiary, unless
(i) The person(s) named in the court order gives written consent for the change, or
(ii) The court order is modified.
(2) If a court order has been received in accordance with § 870.801(d), and the court order applies to only part of the insurance benefits, an insured individual can designate a different beneficiary to receive the insurance benefits that are not included under the court order. If the insured individual does not make a designation for these benefits and there is no previous valid designation on file, benefits will be paid according to the order of precedence shown in § 870.801(a).
(3) If a court order received in accordance with § 870.801(d) is subsequently modified without naming a new person to receive the benefits, and a certified copy of the modified court order is received by the appropriate office before the death of the insured, the insured individual can designate a beneficiary. Benefits will be paid according to the order of precedence shown in § 870.801(d)
if the insured individual does not complete a new designation of beneficiary.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997; 62 FR 52181, Oct. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 16602, Apr. 6, 1999; 64 FR 72464, Dec. 28, 1999; 75 FR 60585, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.803
Child incapable of self-support.
(a) When it receives a claim for Option C benefits because of the death of a child age 22 or older, OFEGLI determines, based on whatever evidence it considers necessary, whether the deceased child was incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical disability which existed before the child reached age 22.
(b) If an employee elects Option C under § 870.506(a) (3), and the opportunity to elect is based solely on the acquisition of a child age 22 or older, the employee must submit to the employing office, at the time of making the election, a doctor's certificate stating that the child is incapable of self-support because of a physical or mental disability which existed before the child reached age 22 and which is expected to continue for more than 1 year. The certificate must include the name of the child, the type of disability, how long it has existed, and its expected future course and duration. The certificate must be signed by the doctor and show his/her office address.

# Subpart I—Assignments of Life Insurance
§ 870.901
Assignments permitted.
(a) (1) Section 208 of the Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-353 (98 Stat. 355), effective July 10, 1984, permits Federal judges to irrevocably assign their FEGLI coverage to one or more individuals, corporations, or trustees. Section 4 of Pub. L. 103-336 (108 Stat. 2661), effective October 3, 1994, extended this right to all Federal employees, annuitants, and compensationers.
(2) An individual may assign ownership of all life insurance under this part, except Option C. If an individual wishing to make an assignment owns more than one type of coverage, he/she must assign all the insurance; an individual cannot assign only a portion of the coverage. Option C cannot be assigned.
(b) An individual cannot name conditional assignees in case the primary assignee dies before the insured individual.
(c) If the insurance is assigned to two or more individuals, corporations, or trustees, the insured individual must specify percentage shares, rather than dollar amounts or types of insurance, to go to each assignee.
(d) If an individual who has made an assignment later elects increased insurance coverage under § 870.506 or during an open enrollment period, the increased coverage is considered included in the already existing assignment. The right to increase coverage remains with the insured individual, rather than transferring to the assignee.
(e) An individual who assigns ownership of insurance continues to be the insured individual, but the assignee receives those rights of an insured individual that are specified in this part.
(f) Once assigned, the value of the insurance increases or decreases automatically as provided by this part. Exception: if the insured individual elected a Living Benefit before assigning the remainder of his/her insurance, the amount of Basic insurance does not increase or decrease.
(g) An insured individual who has assigned his/her insurance cannot elect a Living Benefit; nor can an assignee elect a Living Benefit on behalf of the insured individual.
(h) An insured individual who has elected a Living Benefit under subpart K of this part may assign the remainder of his/her insurance. The assignment would affect Option A, Option B, and, for an employee who elected a partial Living Benefit, Basic insurance.
(i) A court order can direct that an insured individual make an irrevocable assignment to the person(s) named in the court order. For an assignment to be effective, the insured individual must follow the procedures in § 870.902.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 16602, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 870.902
Making an assignment.
(a) To assign insurance, an insured individual must complete an approved
assignment form. Only the insured individual may make an assignment; no one may assign insurance on behalf of an insured individual.
(b) The assignment form must be in writing, signed by the insured individual, and witnessed and signed by 2 people. The completed assignment form, indicating the intent to irrevocably assign all ownership of the insurance, must be received by the appropriate office.
(1) For an employee, the appropriate office is the employing office.
(2) For an annuitant or compensationer, the appropriate office is OPM.
[75 FR 60585, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.903
Effective date of assignment.
An assignment under this subpart is effective on the date the employing office receives the properly completed, signed, and witnessed assignment form.
§ 870.904
Amount of insurance.
The amount of insurance is the amount of the insured individual's Basic insurance, plus any Option A and Option B coverage.
§ 870.905
Withholdings.
Premium withholdings for assigned insurance are withheld from the salary, annuity, or compensation of the insured individual, as provided in subpart D of this part.
§ 870.906
Cancellation of insurance.
(a) The right to cancel (or reduce) insurance transfers to the assignee; the insured individual cannot cancel (or reduce) insurance after making an assignment.
(b) The assignee has the right to cancel insurance according to the provisions of §§ 870.502 and 870.505. When there is more than one assignee, all assignees must agree to the cancellation. A cancellation of Basic insurance also cancels all Optional insurance.
§ 870.907
Termination and conversion.
(a) Assigned insurance terminates under the conditions stated in subpart F of this part.
(b)(1) When an insured individual's insurance terminates, an assignee has the right to convert all or part of the group insurance to an individual policy on the insured individual. The conditions stated in subpart F of this part apply to assignees who elect to convert.
(2) When there is more than one assignee, each assignee has the right to convert all or part of his/her share of the insurance. Any assignee who doesn't convert loses all ownership of the insurance.
(3) When there is more than one assignee, the maximum amount of insurance each assignee will be able to convert is determined by the dollar amount corresponding to the assignee's share of the total insurance. This amount will be rounded up to the next higher thousand, if it's not already an even thousand dollar amount.
(4) Premiums for converted life insurance are based on the insured individual's age and class of risk at the time the conversion policy is issued.
(5) The employing office must notify each assignee of the conversion right at the time the assigned group insurance terminates.
(c) An assignment terminates 31 days after the insurance terminates, unless the insured individual is reemployed in or returns to a position in which he or she is entitled to coverage under this part within 31 days after the insurance terminates. If the individual returns to Federal service, Basic insurance and any Option A and/or Option B insurance acquired through returning to service is subject to the existing assignment.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 72465, Dec. 28, 1999; 75 FR 60586, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 870.908
Annuitants and compensationers.
(a) If an employee assigns Basic insurance and later becomes eligible to continue such insurance coverage as an annuitant or compensationer as provided in § 870.701:
(1) At the time he/she retires or becomes eligible as a compensationer, the insured individual may elect unreduced or partially reduced insurance coverage as provided in § 870.702(a). This right remains with the insured individual and does not transfer to the
assignee. Exception: if the insured individual elected a partial Living Benefit as an employee under subpart K of this part, he/she can only elect unreduced insurance coverage.
(2) After the individual has made the election described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the assignee (or, if more than one, all of the assignees acting together) may, at any time, elect to cancel the annuitant's or compensationer's election of increased coverage, as provided in § 870.702(b). The right to cancel the election transfers to the assignee; the annuitant or compensationer cannot cancel the election after making an assignment. Exception: if the individual elected a partial Living Benefit as an employee under subpart K of this part, the assignee(s) cannot cancel the election of unreduced insurance coverage.
(b) When more than one assignee has been named, at the time the insured individual becomes eligible to continue coverage as an annuitant or compensationer, some assignees may choose to convert their part of the insurance, while others may choose to continue the coverage during the insured individual's retirement or receipt of compensation. The amount of each type of continued insurance is determined by the total percentage of the shares of the assignees who choose to continue the coverage.
(c)(1) When an annuitant who has assigned his/her insurance is reemployed in a position in which he/she is entitled to life insurance coverage, the coverage he/she acquires as a reemployed annuitant is subject to the existing assignment.
(2) The right of a reemployed annuitant to elect Option B coverage as an employee rather than as an annuitant under § 870.705(d)(3) remains with the insured individual and does not transfer to the assignee. Any Option B coverage elected as an employee is subject to the existing assignment.
§ 870.909
Designations and changes of beneficiary.
(a)(1) An assignment automatically cancels an insured individual's prior designation of beneficiary. After making an assignment, an individual cannot designate a beneficiary; the right to designate beneficiaries transfers to the assignee.
(2) Each assignee may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive insurance benefits upon the death of the insured individual and may also later change the beneficiaries. An assignee may designate himself/herself the primary beneficiary and name another contingent beneficiary(ies) to receive insurance benefits if the assignee dies before the insured individual.
(b) Benefits for assigned insurance are paid to the assignee(s) if the assignee(s) did not designate a beneficiary.
(c) Benefits for assigned insurance are paid to an assignee's estate if the assignee dies before the insured individual and:
(1) The assignee (or the assignee's heirs) did not designate a beneficiary; or
(2) The assignee's designated beneficiary dies before the insured individual.
(d) The provisions of § 870.802 apply to designations of beneficiary made by assignees.
§ 870.910
Notification of current addresses.
Each assignee must keep the office where the assignment is filed informed of his/her current address.
[75 FR 60586, Oct. 1, 2010]

# Subpart J—Benefits for United States Hostages in Iraq and Kuwait and United States Hostages Captured in Lebanon
§ 870.1001
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the conditions for life insurance coverage according to the provisions of section 599C of Pub. L. 101-513 (104 Stat. 2035).
§ 870.1002
Definitions.
In this subpart:
Hostage
and
hostage status
have the meaning set forth in section 599C of Pub. L. 101-513 (104 Stat. 2035).
Pay period
for individuals insured under this subpart means the pay period set by the U.S. Department of State.
Period of eligibility
means the period beginning on the effective date set forth in § 870.1004 and ending 12 months after hostage status ends for hostages in Iraq and Kuwait and 60 months after hostage status ends for hostages captured in Lebanon.
§ 870.1003
Coverage and amount of insurance.
(a) An individual is covered under this subpart when the U.S. Department of State determines that the individual is eligible under section 599C of Pub. L. 101-513 (104 Stat. 2035).
(b)(1) The amount of Basic life insurance for these individuals is the amount specified in § 870.202, subject to the applicable conditions stated in this subpart.
(2) The BIA under § 870.202 is the amount of the payment specified in section 599C(b)(2) of Pub. L. 101-513 (104 Stat. 2035), rounded to the next higher $1,000, plus $2,000.
(c) Individuals who have Basic insurance under this section also have group accidental death and dismemberment insurance.
(d) Individuals insured by this subpart are not eligible for Optional insurance.
(e) Individuals insured by this subpart are not considered employees for the purpose of this part.
(f) Eligibility for insurance under this subpart depends on the availability of funds under section 599C(e) of Pub. L. 101-513 (104 Stat. 2035).
§ 870.1004
Effective date of insurance.
Insurance under this subpart was effective on August 2, 1990, for hostages in Iraq and Kuwait and on June 1, 1982, for hostages captured in Lebanon, unless the U.S. Department of State sets a later date.
§ 870.1005
Premiums.
(a) Government contributions and employee withholdings required under subpart D of this part are paid from the funds provided under section 599C(e) of Pub. L. 101-513 (104 Stat. 2035).
(b) If an individual isn't insured for the full pay period, premiums are paid only for the days he/she is actually insured. The daily premium is the monthly premium multiplied by 12 and divided by 365.
(c) OPM may accept the payments required by this section in advance from a State Department appropriation, if necessary to fund the 12-month period of coverage beginning the earlier of:
(1) The day after sanctions or hostilities end; or
(2) The day after the individual's hostage status ends.
(d) OPM will place any funds received under paragraph (c) of this section in an account set up for that purpose. OPM will make the deposit required under 5 U.S.C. 8714 from the account when the appropriate pay period occurs.
[62 FR 48731, Sept. 17, 1997; 62 FR 52181, Oct. 6, 1997]
§ 870.1006
Cancellation of insurance.
(a) An individual who is insured under this subpart may cancel his/her insurance at any time by written request. The cancellation is effective on the 1st day of the pay period after the pay period in which the U.S. Department of State receives the request.
(b) Cancellation must be requested by the insured individual and cannot be requested by a representative acting on the individual's behalf.
(c) An individual who cancels the insurance under this section cannot obtain the insurance again, unless the U.S. Department of State determines that it would be against equity and good conscience not to allow the individual to be insured.
§ 870.1007
Termination and conversion.
(a) Insurance under this subpart terminates 12 months after hostage status ends, unless the individual cancels the insurance earlier.
(b) Insured individuals whose coverage terminates are eligible for the 31-day extension of coverage and conversion as set forth in subpart F of this part, unless the individual cancelled the coverage.
§ 870.1008
Order of precedence and designation of beneficiary.
Insurance benefits are paid under the order of precedence set forth in 5 U.S.C.
8705(a) and under the provisions of subpart H of this part.
§ 870.1009
Responsibilities of the U.S. Department of State.
(a) The U.S. Department of State functions as the “employing office” for individuals insured under this subpart.
(b) The U.S. Department of State must determine the eligibility of individuals under Pub. L. 101-513 (104 Stat. 2035) for insurance under this subpart. This includes determining whether an individual is barred from insurance under chapter 87 of title 5 U.S.C. because of other life insurance as provided in section 599C of Pub. L. 101-513 (104 Stat. 2035).

# Subpart K—Living Benefits
§ 870.1101
Eligibility for a Living Benefit.
(a) Effective July 25, 1995, an insured individual who is certified by his/her doctor as terminally ill, as defined in § 870.101, may elect to receive a lump-sum payment of Basic insurance.
(b) Optional insurance is not available for payment as a Living Benefit.
(c)(1) The effective date of a Living Benefit election is the date on which the Living Benefit payment is cashed or deposited. Once an election becomes effective, it can't be revoked. No further election of Living Benefits can be made.
(2) If the insured individual dies before cashing or depositing the Living Benefit payment, the payment must be returned to OFEGLI.
(d) If the insured individual has assigned his/her insurance, he/she cannot elect a Living Benefit; nor can an assignee elect a Living Benefit on behalf of an insured individual.
(e) If an individual has elected a Living Benefit, he/she may assign his/her remaining insurance.
§ 870.1102
Amount of a Living Benefit.
(a)(1) An employee may elect to receive either:
(i) A full Living Benefit, which is all of his/her Basic insurance, or
(ii) A partial Living Benefit, which is a portion of his/her Basic insurance, in a multiple of $1,000.
(2) An annuitant or compensationer may only elect to receive a full Living Benefit.
(b) The amount of Basic insurance elected as a Living Benefit will be reduced by an actuarial amount representing the amount of interest lost to the Fund because of the early payment of benefits.
(c)(1) If an individual elects a full Living Benefit, the post-election BIA will be 0. If an employee elects a partial Living Benefit, the post-election BIA will be the BIA reduced in proportion to the amount of Basic insurance elected as a Living Benefit, as prescribed by Pub. L. 103-409 (108 Stat. 4231).
(2) The post-election BIA cannot change after the effective date of a Living Benefit election.
(d)(1) If an employee elects a full Living Benefit, Basic accidental death and dismemberment coverage terminates as of the effective date of the election.
(2) If an employee elects a partial Living Benefit, Basic accidental death and dismemberment coverage is reduced to equal the post-election BIA.
§ 870.1103
Election procedures.
(a) The insured individual must request information on Living Benefits and an application form directly from OFEGLI.
(b)(1) The insured individual must complete the first part of the application and have his or her physician complete the second part. The completed application must be submitted directly to OFEGLI.
(2) Another person may apply for a Living Benefit on the insured individual's behalf if all of the following conditions are met:
(i) The insured's physician must certify that the insured individual is physically or mentally incapable of making an election;
(ii) The applicant must have power of attorney or a court order authorizing him or her to elect a Living Benefit on the insured individual's behalf;
(iii) The applicant must place his or her own signature on the application and attach it to a true and correct copy of the power of attorney or court order authorizing the applicant to
make the election on the insured individual's behalf; and
(iv) The applicant must either be the insured individual's sole beneficiary or attach a true and correct copy of each beneficiary's written and signed consent.
(c)(1) OFEGLI reviews the application, obtains certification from the insured's employing office regarding the amount of insurance and the absence of an assignment, and determines whether the individual meets the requirements to elect a Living Benefit.
(2) If OFEGLI needs additional information, it will contact the insured or the insured's physician.
(3) Under certain circumstances, OFEGLI may require a medical examination before making a decision. In these cases, OFEGLI is financially responsible for the cost of the medical examination.
(d)(1) If the application is approved, OFEGLI sends the insured a check or makes an electronic funds transfer to the insured's account for the Living Benefit payment and an explanation of benefits.
(i) Until the check has been cashed or deposited, or before the electronic funds transfer has been received, the individual may change his or her mind about electing a Living Benefit; if this happens, the individual must mark the check “void” and return it to OFEGLI.
(ii) Once the insured individual has cashed or deposited the payment, the Living Benefit election becomes effective and cannot be revoked; OFEGLI then sends explanations of benefits to the insured's employing office, so it can make the necessary changes in withholdings and deductions.
(2) If the application is not approved, OFEGLI will notify the insured individual and the employing office. The decision is not subject to administrative review; however, the individual may submit additional medical information or reapply at a later date if future circumstances warrant.
[75 FR 60586, Oct. 1, 2010]
Subpart L [Reserved]
Pt. 875

# PART 875—FEDERAL LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
Sec.
875.101
Definitions.
875.102
Where do I send benefit claims?
875.103
Do I need to authorize release of my medical records when I file a claim?
875.104
What are the steps required to resolve a dispute involving benefit eligibility or payment of a claim?
875.105
May OPM correct errors?
875.106
What responsibilities do agencies have under this Program?
875.107
What are OPM's responsibilities as regulator under this Program?
875.108
If the Carrier approves my application, will I get a certificate of insurance?
875.109
Which board of contract appeals has jurisdiction for resolving contract disputes between OPM and the Carrier?
875.110
May OPM suspend applications for FLTCIP coverage?

# Subpart B—Eligibility
875.201
Am I eligible as a Federal civilian or Postal employee?
875.202
Am I eligible as a Federal annuitant?
875.203
Am I eligible if I separated under the FERS MRA+10 provision?
875.204
Am I eligible as a member of the uniformed services?
875.205
Am I eligible as a retired member of the uniformed services?
875.206
[Reserved]
875.207
What happens if I am in nonpay status during a special application period?
875.208
May I apply as a qualified relative if the person on whom I am basing my eligibility status has died?
875.209
How do I demonstrate that I am eligible to apply for coverage?
875.210
What happens if I become ineligible after I submit an application?
875.211
What happens if my eligibility status changes after I submit my application?
875.212
Is there a minimum application age?
875.213
May I apply as a qualified relative if I am the domestic partner of an employee or annuitant?

# Subpart C—Cost
875.301
Is there a Government contribution toward premiums?
875.302
What are the options for making premium payments?
875.303
How are premium payment errors corrected?
875.304
How does the Carrier account for FLTCIP funds?

# Subpart D—Coverage
875.401
How do I apply for coverage?
875.402
When will open seasons be held?
875.403
When may I apply for coverage?
875.404
What is the effective date of coverage?
875.405
May a spouse, domestic partner, or other qualified relative of a workforce member apply for coverage?
875.406
May I change my coverage?
875.407
Who makes insurability decisions?
875.408
What is the significance of incontestability?
875.409
Must I provide an authorization to release medical information?
875.410
May I continue my coverage when I leave Federal or military service?
875.411
May I continue my coverage when I am no longer a qualified relative?
875.412
When will my coverage terminate?
875.413
Is it possible to have coverage reinstated?
875.414
Will benefits be coordinated with other coverage?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 9008; Pub. L. 116-92, 133 Stat. 1198 (5 U.S.C. 8956 note).

# Source:
68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
§ 875.101
Definitions.
This part is written as if the reader were an applicant or enrollee. Accordingly, the terms “you,” “your,” etc., refer, as appropriate, to the applicant or enrollee.
In this part, the terms
annuitant, employee, member of the uniformed services, retired member of the uniformed services,
and
qualified relative
have the meanings set forth in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code, and supplement the following definitions:
Abbreviated underwriting
is a type of underwriting that asks fewer questions about your health status than with full underwriting to enable the Carrier to determine whether your application for coverage will be approved. The Carrier may also require review of your medical records, a phone interview, or an in-home interview.
Actively at work
means:
(1) That as an active workforce member other than a member of the uniformed services you meet all of the following conditions:
(i) You are reporting for work at an approved work location and you work at least one-half of your regularly scheduled hours for that day; and
(ii) You are able to perform all the usual and customary duties of your employment on your regular work schedule.
(2) For a member of the uniformed services, that you are on active duty and are physically able to perform the duties of your position.
Carrier
means a “qualified carrier” as defined in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code, with which OPM has contracted to provide long term care insurance coverage under this section. A Carrier may designate one or more administrators to perform some of its obligations.
Domestic partner
is defined as a person in a domestic partnership with an employee, annuitant, member of the uniformed services, or retired member of the uniformed services.
Domestic partnership
means:
(1) A committed relationship between two adults, of the opposite sex or same sex, in which the partners—
(i) Are each other's sole domestic partner and intend to remain so indefinitely;
(ii) Maintain a common residence, and intend to continue to do so (or would maintain a common residence but for an assignment abroad or other employment-related, financial, or similar obstacle);
(iii) Are at least 18 years of age and mentally competent to consent to a contract;
(iv) Share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's financial obligations;
(v) Are not married or joined in a civil union to anyone else;
(vi) Are not a domestic partner of anyone else;
(vii) Are not related in a way that would prohibit legal marriage in the U.S. jurisdiction in which the domestic partnership was formed;
(viii) Provide documentation demonstrating fulfillment of the requirements of paragraphs (1)(i) through (vii) of this definition as prescribed by OPM; and
(ix) Certify that they understand that willful falsification of the documentation described in paragraph (1)(viii) of this definition may lead to disciplinary action and the recovery of the cost of benefits received related to such falsification and may constitute a criminal violation under 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(2) You or your domestic partner must notify the employing office if at any time between the time of application and the time coverage is scheduled to go into effect, any of the conditions listed in paragraphs (1)(i) through (vii) of this definition are no longer met, in which case a domestic partnership is deemed terminated. Such notification must be made as soon as possible, but in no event later than thirty calendar days after such conditions are no longer met.
Eligible individual
means an employee, annuitant, member of the uniformed services, retired member of the uniformed services or qualified relative, as defined in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code.
Enrollee
means an eligible individual whose application for coverage the Carrier has approved and whose coverage is in effect.
FLTCIP
means the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program.
Free look
means that within 30 days after you are approved for coverage and receive the Benefit Booklet, you may cancel that coverage if you are not satisfied with it and receive a refund of any premium you paid for that coverage. It will be as if the coverage was never issued.
Full underwriting
is the more comprehensive type of underwriting under the FLTCIP, which requires that you answer many questions about your health status to enable the Carrier to determine whether your application for coverage will be approved. The Carrier may also require review of your medical records, a phone interview, or an in-home interview.
Special application period
is a period in which active workforce members and their spouses may apply based on abbreviated underwriting. Such application periods will be provided for pursuant to OPM's authority in section 9008 of title 5, United States Code.
Stepchild(ren),
as set forth in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code, means the child(ren) of the spouse or domestic partner of an employee, annuitant, member of the uniformed services, or retired member of the uniformed services.
Stepparent
means any person, other than your mother or father, who is currently married to one of your parents, or, if one of your parents is dead, a person who was married to that parent at the time of that parent's death.
Underwriting requirements
means the information about your current health status and history and other information that you must provide to the Carrier with your application for coverage to enable the Carrier to determine your insurability.
Workforce member
means a Federal civilian or Postal employee, member of the uniformed services, Federal annuitant, retired member of the uniformed services, or member of any other eligible group, as defined in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code. An active workforce member is one who is currently employed or is on active duty.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 30606, May 27, 2005; 80 FR 66786, Oct. 30, 2015; 81 FR 10057, Feb. 29, 2016; 87 FR 68597, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.102
Where do I send benefit claims?
You must submit your benefit claims to the FLTCIP Carrier.
[87 FR 68597, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.103
Do I need to authorize release of my medical records when I file a claim?
Yes, if you file a claim for benefits, the Carrier needs to have a valid authorization from you to release your medical records.
§ 875.104
What are the steps required to resolve a dispute involving benefit eligibility or payment of a claim?
(a) If you dispute the Carrier's denial of your eligibility for benefits or your claim for payment of benefits, you must first send a written request for reconsideration to the Carrier no later than 60 days from the date of its decision.
(b) The Carrier must provide you with written notice of its review decision no later than 60 days after the date it receives your reconsideration request.
(c) If the Carrier upholds its denial (or does not respond within 60 days), you have the right to appeal its reconsideration decision directly to the Carrier. You must make this appeal in writing within 60 days from the date of the Carrier's notice upholding its decision. You will be notified of the decision on your appeal in writing no later than 60 days from receipt of your appeal request.
(d) If a denial of your eligibility for benefits or a denial of your claim is upheld upon appeal due to the evaluation of your medical condition/functional capacity, the Carrier will inform you that you may request that an independent third party, mutually agreed to by OPM and the Carrier, review the decision. You must make this request in writing within 60 days from the date of the notice informing you of the appeal decision. The independent third party must notify you in writing of its decision no later than 60 days from the Carrier's or its designee's receipt of your request for appeal to the third party. This is the final administrative remedy available to you. The decision of the independent third party is final and binding on the Carrier.
(e) You may seek judicial review of the final administrative denial of a claim. Such action may not be brought prior to exhaustion of the administrative process provided in this section. To pursue such judicial review, you must bring legal action against the Carrier in an appropriate United States district court within 2 years from the date of the final decision. You may not sue OPM, the independent reviewer, or any other entity. If you prevail in court, your recovery is limited to the amount of benefits payable under your benefit booklet and schedule of benefits.
(f) The procedures described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section apply only if you have valid coverage under the FLTCIP. If the Carrier determines that your coverage was based on an erroneous application and voids the coverage as described in § 875.408 of this part, these provisions do not apply. The Carrier will provide you with information on your review rights in its rescission letter (letter voiding your coverage).
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 30607, May 27, 2005; 72 FR 12037, Mar. 15, 2007]
§ 875.105
May OPM correct errors?
OPM may order correction of administrative errors after reviewing evidence and finding that it would be against equity and good conscience not to do so.
§ 875.106
What responsibilities do agencies have under this Program?
Federal agencies and uniformed services establishments are responsible for:
(a) Providing access to information about the FLTCIP to eligible individuals;
(b) Responding to questions from the Carrier, including questions on the employment status of an applicant or enrollee;
(c) Providing reports as OPM requires;
(d) Complying with Benefits Administration Letters and other OPM issuances/instructions; and
(e) Deducting premiums as authorized by a workforce member and as requested by the Carrier, when possible.
§ 875.107
What are OPM's responsibilities as regulator under this Program?
Consistent with the authority and discretion given to OPM by the FLTCIP law, OPM's responsibilities include those functions typically associated with, and preemptive of, State insurance regulatory authorities such as:
(a) Reviewing and approving the content and format of materials associated with the FLTCIP pursuant to section 9008(d) of title 5, United States Code;
(b) Reviewing and approving rates, forms, and marketing materials;
(c) Determining the qualifications of enrollment personnel and the Program administrator(s);
(d) Suspending applications for FLTCIP coverage, including coverage increases as specified in § 875.110; and
(e) Holding special application periods as specified in § 875.402.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 68597, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.108
If the Carrier approves my application, will I get a certificate of insurance?
If the Carrier approves your application for coverage, OPM and/or the Carrier will make available to you a benefit booklet and schedule of benefits with complete coverage information, which will serve as your proof of insurance. You will also get a copy of your approved application for coverage.
§ 875.109
Which board of contract appeals has jurisdiction for resolving contract disputes between OPM and the Carrier?
For purposes of applying chapter 71 of title 41 to disputes arising between OPM and the Carrier, the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals has jurisdiction to decide an appeal relative to such a dispute.
[87 FR 68597, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.110
May OPM suspend applications for FLTCIP coverage?
(a) OPM may suspend applications for FLTCIP coverage, including coverage increases, when OPM determines that a suspension is in the best interest of the Program.
(b) OPM will issue a document in the
Federal Register
with the effective date of the suspension period, during which no applications for FLTCIP coverage will be accepted. The effective date will be determined at the discretion of the Director and will be at least 30 days after the publication date of the document.
(c) The duration of the suspension period, as determined at the discretion of the Director and not to exceed 24 months unless subsequently extended, will be announced in a document published in the
Federal Register
.
(d) At least 30 days before the end of the suspension period, OPM may issue a document in the
Federal Register
announcing an extension of the suspension period when OPM determines that such extension is in the best interest of the Program. The duration of any extension to the suspension period will not exceed 24 months, unless subsequently extended by additional periods of suspension, each not to exceed 24 months.
[87 FR 68597, Nov. 16, 2022]

# Subpart B—Eligibility
§ 875.201
Am I eligible as a Federal civilian or Postal employee?
(a) If you are a Federal civilian or Postal employee whose current position conveys eligibility for Federal Employees Health Benefits under part 890 of this chapter, you are also eligible to apply for coverage, with the following exceptions:
(1) If you are a District of Columbia employee or retiree, you are not eligible to apply for coverage, regardless of whether you are eligible for Federal Employees Health Benefits coverage. There is a related exception, however: D.C. government employees and retirees who were first employed by the D.C. government before October 1, 1987 are eligible to apply for coverage.
(2) If you are a Tennessee Valley Authority employee or retiree, you are eligible to apply for coverage, even though you may not be eligible for Federal Employees Health Benefits coverage.
(3) If you are a Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) employee or retiree you are eligible to apply when the Secretary of Defense determines such eligibility for the NAF instrumentality that employs you, and you will be treated the same as a Federal civilian employee or retiree (as applicable) under this Part.
(b) If you are a Federal civilian or Postal employee whose current position is excluded from Federal Employees Health Benefits eligibility under § 890.102 of this chapter, you are excluded from applying for coverage unless paragraph (a)(2) of this section applies.
(c) If you are an annuitant reemployed by the Federal Government, you may apply for coverage as an employee.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 30607, May 27, 2005]
§ 875.202
Am I eligible as a Federal annuitant?
If you are a Federal annuitant, including a survivor annuitant, a deferred annuitant, or a compensationer, you are eligible to apply for coverage. Separated Federal employees with title to a deferred annuity may apply for coverage, even if they are not yet receiving that annuity.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 30607, May 27, 2005]
§ 875.203
Am I eligible if I separated under the FERS MRA+10 provision?
If you have separated from service under the FERS Minimum Retirement Age and 10 years of service (MRA+10) provision of 5 U.S.C. 8412(g), and have postponed receiving an annuity under that provision, you are eligible to apply for coverage as an annuitant under this part.
[87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.204
Am I eligible as a member of the uniformed services?
(a) You are eligible to apply for coverage if you are on active duty or full-time National Guard duty for more than a 30-day period.
(b) You are eligible to apply for coverage if you are a member of the Selected Reserve, which consists of:
(1) Drilling Reservists and Guardsmembers assigned to Reserve Component Units;
(2) Individual Mobilization Augmentees who are Reservists assigned to Reserve Component billets in Active Component units (you may be performing duty in a pay or non-pay status); and
(3) Active Guard and Reserve members who are full-time Reserve members on full-time National Guard duty or active duty in support of the National Guard or Reserves.
(c) You are not eligible to apply for coverage solely because you belong to the Individual Ready Reserve. The Individual Ready Reserves includes Reservists who are assigned to a Voluntary Training Unit in the Naval Reserve and Category E in the Air Force Reserve.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.205
Am I eligible as a retired member of the uniformed services?
(a) You are eligible to apply for coverage if you are a retired member of the uniformed services entitled to retired or retainer pay (including disability retirement pay).
(b) You are eligible to apply for coverage if you are a retired reservist who is currently receiving retirement pay.
(c) You are eligible to apply for coverage as a retired (“grey”) reservist, even if not yet receiving retirement pay.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 30607, May 27, 2005]
§ 875.206
[Reserved]
§ 875.207
What happens if I am in nonpay status during a special application period?
(a) If you return to pay status from nonpay status during a special application period, you have 60 days from the date of your return, or until the end of the special application period, whichever gives you more time, to apply for coverage pursuant to the rules of that special application period.
(b) If you return to pay status from nonpay status within 180 days after the end of the special application period, you have 60 days from the date of your return to apply for coverage pursuant to the rules of that special application period.
(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply only when you have been in nonpay status for more than one-half of a special application period, unless you went into nonpay status for a reason beyond your control.
[87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.208
May I apply as a qualified relative if the person on whom I am basing my eligibility status has died?
You may not apply as a qualified relative if the workforce member on whom you are basing your qualified relative status died prior to the time you apply for coverage, unless you are receiving a survivor annuity as the spouse or an insurable interest annuity as the domestic partner of a deceased workforce member. In this case, your adult children and your current spouse
or domestic partner are also considered to be qualified relatives.
[80 FR 66786, Oct. 30, 2015]
§ 875.209
How do I demonstrate that I am eligible to apply for coverage?
(a) When you submit your application for coverage, you must make known your status as a member of an eligible group. If you are a qualified relative, you need to provide identifying information about the workforce member who makes you an eligible individual.
(b) If the Carrier finds that you misrepresented your eligibility status, the Carrier has the right to void your coverage and return to you any premiums you paid, without interest. The incontestability provisions in § 875.408 do not apply to this section.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 12037, Mar. 15, 2007; 87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.210
What happens if I become ineligible after I submit an application?
(a) You must be eligible at the time of your application and at the time your coverage is scheduled to go into effect. Except as noted in paragraph (b) of this section, if you lose your status as part of an eligible group before your coverage goes into effect, you are no longer eligible for FLTCIP coverage. You are required to inform the Carrier that you are no longer eligible.
(b) In two instances, you will continue to be eligible for coverage even if you lose your status as part of an eligible group after you submit an application for coverage, but before your coverage becomes effective. The two instances are:
(1) When you are involuntarily separated from Federal civilian service (except for misconduct) or from the uniformed services (except for a dishonorable discharge); or, when you are the qualified relative of a workforce member who has been involuntarily separated from Federal civilian service (except for misconduct) or from the uniformed services (except for a dishonorable discharge).
(2) When you are the qualified relative of a workforce member who dies.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.211
What happens if my eligibility status changes after I submit my application?
(a) If you applied as an active workforce member, and you retire or separate from service after you submit an application for coverage, but before your coverage becomes effective, you must notify the Carrier of this change.
(b) If you applied with abbreviated underwriting during a special application period as an active workforce member or the spouse of an active workforce member, and the active workforce member retires or separates from service before your coverage becomes effective, you must reapply based on your new eligibility status.
[87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.212
Is there a minimum application age?
Yes, there is a minimum application age. You must be at least 18 years old at the time you submit an application for coverage.
§ 875.213
May I apply as a qualified relative if I am the domestic partner of an employee or annuitant?
You may apply for coverage as a qualified relative if you are a domestic partner, as described in § 875.101. As prescribed by OPM, you will be required to provide documentation to demonstrate that you meet these requirements, and you must submit to full underwriting requirements. However, as explained in § 875.210, if you lose your status as a domestic partner, and therefore status as a qualified relative, before your coverage goes into effect, you are no longer eligible for FLTCIP coverage.
[87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]

# Subpart C—Cost
§ 875.301
Is there a Government contribution toward premiums?
There is no Government premium contribution toward the cost of long term care insurance.
§ 875.302
What are the options for making premium payments?
(a) Premium payments may be made by Federal payroll or annuity deduction, uniformed services retirement pay deduction, by pre-authorized debit, or by direct billing.
(b) You must continue to make premium payments when they are due for your coverage to stay in effect.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, if you are an enrollee who is furloughed or excepted from furlough and working without pay during a lapse in appropriations, your FLTCIP coverage will stay in effect through such a lapse. Your coverage may not be cancelled as a result of nonpayment of premiums or other periodic charges due during such lapse. Pursuant to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, Public Law 116-92, such continuation of coverage during a lapse in appropriations applies to any contract for long term care insurance coverage under 5 U.S.C. chapter 90 entered into before, on, or after December 20, 2019.
(1) If your premium payments are made by Federal payroll or annuity deduction, or uniformed services retirement pay deduction, premiums will be paid to the Carrier from back pay made available as soon as practicable upon the end of such a lapse. If your premium payments are made by pre-authorized debit or by direct billing, you have the option of continuing to pay premiums while you are furloughed or excepted from furlough and working without pay, or not making premium payments. If you opt not to make premium payments during this period, you will be contacted by the Carrier regarding premiums due and must pay premiums to the Carrier as soon as practicable upon the end of the lapse.
(2) Upon the end of a lapse in appropriations, premiums will be required from all impacted enrollees in accordance with enrollees' method of payment, as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If you do not pay the required premiums as soon as practicable upon the end of the lapse when due, your coverage will terminate pursuant to § 875.412.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 86 FR 17273, Apr. 2, 2021]
§ 875.303
How are premium payment errors corrected?
(a) If the Carrier finds that you have underpaid the premium rate for your age and/or level of coverage, you must pay retroactive premiums to the Carrier for the amount due. If you fail to pay back premiums within the time provided by the Carrier to correct the error, the Carrier may terminate your coverage.
(b) If the Carrier finds that you have overpaid premiums, the Carrier will either reimburse you or reduce a future premium payment(s) by the amount of the overpayment.
(c) If you die while you have coverage, any premiums paid for the period beyond the date of your death will be refunded to your estate or to an alternate payee. If there is no estate, the Carrier will determine whether to pay the refund to an alternate payee. If you cancel your coverage, any premiums paid in advance for the period following the effective date of your cancellation will be refunded to you.
(d) Any premiums you paid will be returned if you cancel coverage within the “free look” period specified in the benefit booklet.
§ 875.304
How does the Carrier account for FLTCIP funds?
The Carrier must keep account of all funds received under this section separate from all other funds. The Carrier may use FLTCIP funds only for purposes specifically related to the FLTCIP.

# Subpart D—Coverage
§ 875.401
How do I apply for coverage?
To apply for coverage, you must complete the application in a form appropriate for your eligibility status as prescribed by the Carrier and approved by OPM.
[87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.402
When will open seasons be held?
(a) There are no regularly scheduled open seasons for long term care insurance. OPM may have special application periods in which active workforce
members and their spouses may apply based on abbreviated underwriting.
(b) In situations where OPM determines that it is appropriate to have a special application period, OPM will announce any such period via publication of a document in the
Federal Register.
The document will include the requirements for eligible applicants during the special application period.
[87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.403
When may I apply for coverage?
If you are an eligible individual, you may apply at any time outside of a suspension period described in § 875.110. You will be subject to full underwriting requirements. The only exceptions to the full underwriting requirements are described in § 875.402. You may apply as a qualified relative of a workforce member even if the workforce member does not apply for coverage.
[87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.404
What is the effective date of coverage?
(a)(1) The effective dates of coverage under special application period enrollments will be announced in a document published in the
Federal Register
that announces special application period dates.
(2) If you are an active workforce member or the spouse of an active workforce member and you are applying for coverage during a special application period, the workforce member must be actively at work at least 1 day during the calendar week immediately before the week which contains your coverage effective date for your coverage to become effective. You must inform the Carrier if you do not meet this requirement. In the event you do not meet this requirement, the Carrier will issue you a revised effective date, which will be the 1st day of the next month. The workforce member also must meet the actively at work requirement for any revised effective date for coverage to become effective, or you will be issued another revised effective date in the same manner.
(b) If you enroll at any time outside of a special application period, your coverage effective date is the 1st day of the month after the date your application is approved.
[87 FR 68598, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.405
May a spouse, domestic partner, or other qualified relative of a workforce member apply for coverage?
A spouse, domestic partner, or other qualified relative of a workforce member may apply for coverage with full underwriting at any time following the marriage or commencing date of the domestic partnership, outside of a suspension period as described in § 875.110.
[87 FR 68599, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.406
May I change my coverage?
(a) You may make the following changes to your coverage:
(1) At any time outside of a suspension period described in § 875.110, you may apply to increase your coverage with full underwriting.
(2) If you increase your coverage by adding to your daily benefit amount, the premiums for the additional coverage will be based on your age, prevailing premium rates, and coverage rules in effect at the time you purchase the additional coverage.
(3) For other types of coverage increases, your entire premium will be based on your age, prevailing premium rates, and coverage rules in effect at the time you purchase the increased coverage. Any increase in coverage will take effect on the 1st day of the month following the date the Carrier approves your request for an increase.
(b) You may decrease your coverage at any time, although any decrease will be subject to coverage rules at the time of the decrease. Decreased coverage takes effect on the 1st day of the month after the Carrier receives your request. You will not receive any refund of premiums paid for coverage you held before the decrease; however, your subsequent premiums will be reduced based on your new, lower level of coverage. The Carrier will refund or credit any portion of premium paid in advance for the period following the date on which you decrease your coverage.
(c) You may cancel your coverage at any time.
(1) If you cancel during the free look period, your premiums will be refunded to you.
(2) If you cancel your coverage at any time other than during the free look period, cancellation will take effect on your requested cancellation date or at the end of the period covered by your last premium payment, whichever occurs first. You will not receive any refund of premiums paid, other than any premiums paid in advance for the period following the effective date of your cancellation of coverage, and you will not have to pay any more premiums unless you owed retroactive premiums.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 68599, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.407
Who makes insurability decisions?
The Carrier determines the insurability of all applicants. The Carrier's decision may not be appealed to OPM.
§ 875.408
What is the significance of incontestability?
(a) Incontestability means coverage issued based on an erroneous application may remain in effect. Such coverage will not remain in effect under any of the following conditions:
(1) If your coverage has been in force for less than 6 months, the Carrier may void your coverage upon a showing that information on your signed application that was material to your approval for coverage is different from what is shown in your medical records.
(2) If your coverage has been in force for at least 6 months but less than 2 years, the Carrier may void your coverage upon a showing that information on your signed application that was material to your approval for coverage is different from what is shown in your medical records and pertains to the condition for which benefits are sought.
(3) After your coverage has been in effect for 2 years, the Carrier may void your coverage only upon a showing that you knowingly and intentionally made a false or misleading statement or omitted information in your signed application for coverage regarding your health status that was material to your approval for coverage.
(4) If your coverage is voided, as described in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section, no claims will be paid. In addition, the provisions of § 875.104 relating to the procedures for resolving a dispute involving benefits eligibility or claims denials do not apply to your situation. You may request a review by the Carrier if you believe that your coverage was voided in error. You must submit your request in writing to the Carrier within 30 days of the date of the rescission letter (letter voiding your coverage).
(b) Your coverage can be contested at any time when the Carrier finds that you were not an eligible individual at the time you applied and were approved for coverage.
(c) If the Carrier voids coverage after it has paid benefits, it cannot recover the benefits already paid.
(d) Incontestability does not apply when you have not paid your premiums on a timely basis.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 12037, Mar. 15, 2007]
§ 875.409
Must I provide an authorization to release medical information?
You must provide the Carrier with an authorization to release medical information when requested. The Carrier may deny a claim for benefits or void your coverage if the Carrier does not receive an authorization to release medical information within 3 weeks after its request (4 weeks for those outside the United States).
§ 875.410
May I continue my coverage when I leave Federal or military service?
If you are an active workforce member, your coverage will automatically continue when you leave active service, as long as the Carrier continues to receive the required premium when due.
[87 FR 68599, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.411
May I continue my coverage when I am no longer a qualified relative?
If you are already enrolled as a qualified relative, you may continue your FLTCIP coverage if you subsequently lose qualified relative status (such as upon divorce), as long as the Carrier receives the required premium when due.
§ 875.412
When will my coverage terminate?
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, your coverage will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
(a) The date you specify to the Carrier that you wish your coverage to end;
(b) The date of your death;
(c) The end of the period covered by your last premium payment if you do not pay the required premiums when due, after a grace period of 30 days; or
(d) The date you have exhausted your maximum lifetime benefit. (However, in this event, care coordination services will continue.)
(e) Termination of a domestic partnership does not terminate insurance coverage as long as the Carrier continues to receive the required premium when due.
[68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 66787, Oct. 30, 2015]
§ 875.413
Is it possible to have coverage reinstated?
(a) Under certain circumstances, your coverage can be reinstated. The Carrier will reinstate your coverage if it receives proof satisfactory to it, within 6 months from the date of the written notice of termination, that you suffered from a cognitive impairment or loss of functional capacity, before the grace period ended, that caused you to miss making premium payments. In that event, you will not be required to submit to underwriting. Your coverage will be reinstated retroactively to the termination date but you must pay back premiums for that period. The premium will be the same as it was prior to termination.
(b) If your coverage has terminated because you did not pay premiums or because you requested cancellation, the Carrier may reinstate your coverage within 12 months from the date of the written notice of termination at your request. You will be required to reapply based on full underwriting, and the Carrier will determine whether you are still insurable. If you are insurable, your coverage will be reinstated retroactively to the termination date and you must pay back premiums for that period. The premium will be the same as it was prior to termination.
[87 FR 68599, Nov. 16, 2022]
§ 875.414
Will benefits be coordinated with other coverage?
Yes, benefits will be coordinated with other plans, following the coordination of benefits (COB) guidelines set by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The total benefits from all plans that pay a long term care benefit to you should not exceed the actual costs you incur. The other plans that are considered for COB purposes include government programs, group medical benefits, and other employer-sponsored long term care insurance plans. Medicaid, individual insurance policies, and association group insurance policies are not taken into consideration under this provision.
Pt. 880

# PART 880—RETIREMENT AND INSURANCE BENEFITS DURING PERIODS OF UNEXPLAINED ABSENCE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
880.101
Purpose and scope.
880.102
Regulatory structure.
880.103
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Procedures
880.201
Purpose and scope.
880.202
Referral to Associate Director.
880.203
Missing annuitant status and suspension of annuity.
880.204
Restoration of annuity.
880.205
Determinations of death.
880.206
Date of death.
880.207
Adjustment of accounts after finding of death.

# Subpart C—Continuation of Benefits
880.301
Purpose.
880.302
Payments of CSRS or FERS benefits.
880.303
FEHBP coverage.
880.304
FEGLI coverage.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8347(a), 8461(g), 8716, 8913.

# Source:
63 FR 10291, Mar. 3, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 880.101
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this part is to establish a uniform standard that OPM will use in its administration of benefits for CSRS, FERS, FEHBP and FEGLI in cases in which an annuitant becomes a missing annuitant.
(b) This part establishes the procedures that OPM will follow to—
(1) Determine—
(i) Who is a missing annuitant,
(ii) When a missing annuitant has died,
(iii) When benefits will be paid in missing annuitant cases, and
(iv) FEHBP coverage for family members of a missing annuitant; and
(2) Make adjustments to CSRS and FERS benefit payments, FEHBP coverage and premiums, and FEGLI benefit payments and premiums after a determination that a missing annuitant is dead.
(c) This part applies only to situations in which an individual who satisfies the statutory definition of an annuitant under section 8331(9) or section 8401(2) of title 5, United States Code, disappears and has not been determined to be dead by an authorized institution. This part does not apply to—
(1) An employee, regardless of whether the absence is covered by subchapter VII of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code; or
(2) A separated employee who either—
(i) Does not meet the age and service requirements for an annuity, or
(ii) Has not filed an application for annuity.
§ 880.102
Regulatory structure.
(a) This part contains the following subparts:
(1) Subpart A contains general information about this part and related subjects.
(2) Subpart B establishes the procedures that OPM will follow in missing annuitant cases.
(3) Subpart C establishes the methodologies that OPM will apply in determining continuations of coverage and amounts of payments in missing annuitant cases.
(b) Part 831 of this chapter contains information about benefits under CSRS.
(c) Part 838 of this chapter contains information about benefits available to former spouses under court orders.
(d) Parts 841 through 844 of this chapter contain information about benefits under FERS.
(e) Part 870 of this chapter contains information about benefits under FEGLI.
(f) Part 890 of this chapter contains information about benefits under FEHBP.
(g) Part 1200 of this title contains information about Merit Systems Protection Board review of OPM decisions affecting interests in CSRS or FERS benefits.
(h) Part 1600 of this title contains information about benefits under the Thrift Savings Plan.
§ 880.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part—
Annuitant
means an individual who has separated from the Federal service with, and has retained, title to a CSRS or FERS annuity, has satisfied the age and service requirements for commencement of that annuity, and has filed an application for that annuity;
Associate Director
means OPM's Associate Director for Retirement and Insurance or his or her designee;
Authorized institution
means a government organization or official legally charged with making determinations of death in the State or country of the missing annuitant's domicile, citizenship, or disappearance;
CSRS
means the Civil Service Retirement System established in subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code;
FEGLI
means the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance program established in chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code;
FEHBP
means the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program established in chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code;
FERS
means the basic benefit portion of the Federal Employees Retirement System established in subchapters I, II, IV, V, and VI of chapter 84 of title 5,
United States Code;
FERS
does not include benefits under the Thrift Savings Plan established under subchapters III and VII of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code;
Missing annuitant
means an individual who has acquired the status of missing annuitant under § 880.203(b).

# Subpart B—Procedures
§ 880.201
Purpose and scope.
This subpart establishes the procedures that OPM will use to—
(a) Determine that an individual is a missing annuitant;
(b) Suspend payment of annuity to a missing annuitant;
(c) Notify individuals affected by such a suspension of payments; and
(d) Determine that a missing annuitant has died.
§ 880.202
Referral to Associate Director.
Any OPM office that receives information concerning the possibility that an annuitant might have disappeared will notify the Associate Director.
§ 880.203
Missing annuitant status and suspension of annuity.
(a) Upon receipt of information concerning the possibility that an annuitant has disappeared, the Associate Director will conduct such inquiry as he or she determines to be necessary to determine whether the annuitant is alive and whether the annuitant's whereabouts can be determined.
(b) If during an inquiry under paragraph (a) of this section, or upon subsequent receipt of additional information, the Associate Director finds substantial evidence (as defined in § 1201.56(c)(1) of this title) to believe that an annuitant is either not alive or that the annuitant's whereabouts cannot be determined, the annuitant acquires the status of missing annuitant. The Associate Director will then—
(1) Suspend payments to the missing annuitant; and
(2) Notify individuals who may be able to qualify for payments under § 880.302 that—
(i) OPM has suspended the annuity payments to the missing annuitant;
(ii) Payment may be made under § 880.302, including the amount available for payment, how that amount was determined, and the documentation required (if any) to qualify for such payments; and
(iii) In response to an inquiry from any person seeking CSRS, FERS, FEHBP, or FEGLI benefits, OPM will provide information about documentation necessary to establish a claim for such benefits.
§ 880.204
Restoration of annuity.
(a) If the missing annuitant's whereabouts are determined, and he or she is alive and—
(1) Competent, OPM will resume payments to the annuitant and pay retroactive annuity for the period in missing status less any payment made to the family during that period; or
(2) Incompetent, OPM will resume payments to a representative payee under section 8345(e) or section 8466(c) of title 5, United States Code, and pay retroactive annuity for the period in missing status less any payment made to the family during that period.
(b) If the missing annuitant's whereabouts cannot be determined, missing annuitant status continues until an authorized institution determines that the missing annuitant is dead. (See § 880.205.)
§ 880.205
Determinations of death.
OPM does not make findings of presumed death. A claimant for CSRS, FERS, or FEGLI death benefits (other than payments under § 880.302) or an individual seeking an adjustment of accounts under § 880.207 must submit a death certificate or other legal certification of death issued by an authorized institution.
§ 880.206
Date of death.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, for the purpose of benefits administered by OPM, the date of death of a missing annuitant who has been determined to be dead by an authorized institution is the date of disappearance as determined by the Associate Director.
(b) For the purpose of determining whether a claim is untimely under any statute of limitations applicable to
CSRS, FERS or FEGLI benefits (section 8345(i)(2), section 8466(b), or section 8705(b) through (d) of title 5, United States Code), the time between the date of disappearance and the date on which the authorized institution issues its decision that the missing annuitant is dead is excluded.
§ 880.207
Adjustment of accounts after finding of death.
After a missing annuitant is determined to be dead under § 880.205, OPM will review the case to determine whether additional benefits are payable or excess insurance premiums have been withheld.

# Subpart C—Continuation of Benefits
§ 880.301
Purpose.
This subpart establishes OPM's policy concerning the availability and amount of CSRS and FERS annuity payments and the continuation of FEHBP and FEGLI coverage and premiums while an annuitant is classified as a missing annuitant.
§ 880.302
Payments of CSRS or FERS benefits.
(a) OPM will pay an amount equal to the survivor annuity that would be payable as CSRS or FERS survivor annuity to an account in a financial institution designated (under electronic funds transfer regulations in part 209 or part 210 of Title 31, Code of Federal Regulations) by an individual who, if the missing annuitant were dead, would be entitled to receive payment of a survivor annuity.
(b) If more than one individual would qualify for survivor annuity payments in the event of the missing annuitant's death, OPM will make separate payments in the same manner as if the missing annuitant were dead.
§ 880.303
FEHBP coverage.
(a) If the missing annuitant had a family enrollment, the enrollment will be transferred to the eligible family members under § 890.303(c) of this chapter. If there is only one eligible family member, the enrollment will be changed to a self-only enrollment under § 890.306(r) of this chapter. The changes will be effective the first day of the pay period following the date of disappearance.
(b) If the missing annuitant was covered by a self only enrollment or if there is no eligible family member remaining, the enrollment terminates at midnight of the last day of the pay period in which he or she disappeared, subject to the temporary extension of coverage for conversion.
(c) If the missing annuitant is found to be alive, the coverage held before the disappearance is reinstated effective with the pay period during which the annuitant is found, unless the annuitant, or the annuitant's representative, requests that the enrollment be restored retroactively to the pay period in which the disappearance occurred.
§ 880.304
FEGLI coverage.
(a) FEGLI premiums will not be collected during periods when an annuitant is a missing annuitant.
(b)(1) If the annuity of a missing annuitant is restored under § 880.204(a), OPM will deduct the amount of FEGLI premiums attributable to the period when the annuitant was a missing annuitant from any adjustment payment due the annuitant under § 880.204(a).
(2) If a missing annuitant is determined to be dead under § 880.205, FEGLI premiums and benefits will be computed using the date of death established under § 880.206(a).
Pt. 890

# PART 890—FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
Sec.
890.101
Definitions; time computations.
890.102
Coverage.
890.103
Correction of errors.
890.104
Initial decision and reconsideration on enrollment.
890.105
Filing claims for payment or service.
890.106
Carrier entitlement to pursue subrogation and reimbursement recoveries.
890.107
Court review.
890.108
Will OPM waive requirements for continued coverage during retirement?
890.109
Exclusion of certain periods of eligibility when determining continued coverage during retirement.
890.110
Enrollment reconciliation.
890.111
Continuation of eligibility for former Federal employees of the Civilian Marksmanship Program.
890.112
Continuation of coverage for certain Senate Restaurants employees.
890.113
Designation of FEHB Program services as emergency services under the Antideficiency Act.
890.114
Surprise billing and transparency.
890.115
Special provisions for Postal Service employees, Postal Service annuitants, and their eligible family members.

# Subpart B—Health Benefits Plans
890.201
Minimum standards for health benefits plans.
890.202
Minimum standards for health benefits carriers.
890.203
Application for approval of, and proposal of amendments to, health benefit plans.
890.204
Withdrawal of approval of health benefits plans or carriers.
890.205
Nonrenewal of contracts of health benefits plans.

# Subpart C—Enrollment
890.301
Opportunities for employees to enroll or change enrollment; effective dates.
890.302
Coverage of family members.
890.303
Continuation of enrollment.
890.304
Termination of enrollment.
890.305
Reinstatement of enrollment after military service.
890.306
When can annuitants or survivor annuitants change enrollment or reenroll and what are the effective dates?
890.307
Waiver or suspension of annuity or compensation.
890.308
Disenrollment and removal from enrollment.

# Subpart D—Temporary Extension of Coverage and Conversion
890.401
Temporary extension of coverage and conversion.

# Subpart E—Contributions and Withholdings
890.501
Government contributions.
890.502
Withholdings, contributions, LWOP, premiums, and direct premium payment.
890.503
Reserves.
890.504
Disposition of contingency reserves upon reorganization or merger of plans.
890.505
Recurring premium payments to carriers.

# Subpart F—Transfers From Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Program
890.601
Coverage.
890.602
Opportunity to change enrollment.
890.603
Effective date.
890.604
[Reserved]
890.605
Persons confined on effective date.
Subpart G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Benefits for Former Spouses
890.801
Introduction.
890.802
Definition.
890.803
Who may enroll.
890.804
Coverage.
890.805
Application time limitations.
890.806
When can former spouses change enrollment or reenroll and what are the effective dates?
890.807
When do enrollments terminate, cancel or suspend?
890.808
Employing office responsibilities.

# Subpart I—Limit on Inpatient Hospital Charges, Physician Charges, and FEHB Benefit Payments
890.901
Purpose.
890.902
Definition.
890.903
Covered services.
890.904
Determination of FEHB benefit payment.
890.905
Limits on inpatient hospital and physician charges.
890.906
Retired enrolled individuals coinsurance payments.
890.907
Effective dates.
890.908
Notification of HHS
890.909
End-of-year settlements.
890.910
Provider information.

# Subpart J—Administrative Sanctions Imposed Against Health Care Providers

# General Provisions and Definitions
890.1001
Scope and purpose.
890.1002
Use of terminology.
890.1003
Definitions.

# Mandatory Debarments
890.1004
Bases for mandatory debarments.
890.1005
Time limits for OPM to initiate mandatory debarments.
890.1006
Notice of proposed mandatory debarment.
890.1007
Minimum length of mandatory debarments.
890.1008
Mandatory debarment for longer than the minimum length.
890.1009
Contesting proposed mandatory debarments.
890.1010
Debarring official's decision of contest.

# Permissive Debarments
890.1011
Bases for permissive debarments.
890.1012
Time limits for OPM to initiate permissive debarments.
890.1013
Deciding whether to propose a permissive debarment.
890.1014
Notice of proposed permissive debarment.
890.1015
Minimum and maximum length of permissive debarments.
890.1016
Aggravating and mitigating factors used to determine the length of permissive debarments.
890.1017
Determining length of debarment based on revocation or suspension of a provider's professional licensure.
890.1018
Determining length of debarment for an entity owned or controlled by a sanctioned provider.
890.1019
Determining length of debarment based on ownership or control of a sanctioned entity.
890.1020
Determining length of debarment based on false, wrongful, or deceptive claims.
890.1021
Determining length of debarment based on failure to furnish information needed to resolve claims.
890.1022
Contesting proposed permissive debarments.
890.1023
Information considered in deciding a contest.
890.1024
Standard and burden of proof for deciding contests.
890.1025
Cases where additional fact-finding is not required.
890.1026
Procedures if a fact-finding proceeding is not required.
890.1027
Cases where an additional fact-finding proceeding is required.
890.1028
Conducting a fact-finding proceeding.
890.1029
Deciding a contest after a fact-finding proceeding.

# Suspension
890.1030
Effect of a suspension.
890.1031
Grounds for suspension.
890.1032
Length of suspension.
890.1033
Notice of suspension.
890.1034
Counting a period of suspension as part of a subsequent debarment.
890.1035
Provider contests of suspensions.
890.1036
Information considered in deciding a contest.
890.1037
Cases where additional fact-finding is not required.
890.1038
Deciding a contest without additional fact-finding.
890.1039
Cases where additional fact-finding is required.
890.1040
Conducting a fact-finding proceeding.
890.1041
Deciding a contest after a fact-finding proceeding.

# Effect of Debarment
890.1042
Effective dates of debarments.
890.1043
Effect of debarment on a provider.

# Notifying Outside Parties about Debarment and Suspension Actions
890.1044
Entities notified of OPM-issued debarments and suspensions.
890.1045
Informing persons covered by FEHBP about debarment or suspension of their provider.

# Exceptions to the Effect of Debarments
890.1046
Effect of debarment or suspension on payments for services furnished in emergency situations.
890.1047
Special rules for institutional providers.
890.1048
Waiver of debarment for a provider that is the sole source of health care services in a community.

# Special Exceptions To Protect Covered Persons
890.1049
Claims for non-emergency items or services furnished by a debarred or suspended provider.
890.1050
Exception to a provider's debarment for an individual enrollee.

# Reinstatement
890.1051
Applying for reinstatement when period of debarment expires.
890.1052
Reinstatements without application.
890.1053
Table of procedures and effective dates for reinstatements.
890.1054
Agencies and entities to be notified of reinstatements.
890.1055
Contesting a denial of reinstatement.

# Civil Monetary Penalties and Financial Assessments
890.1060
Purpose and scope of civil monetary penalties and assessments.
890.1061
Bases for penalties and assessments.
890.1062
Deciding whether to impose penalties and assessments.
890.1063
Maximum amounts of penalties and assessments.
890.1064
Determining the amounts of penalties and assessments to be imposed on a provider.
890.1065
Deciding whether to suspend or debar a provider in a case that also involves penalties and assessments.
890.1066
Notice of proposed penalties and assessments.
890.1067
Provider contests of proposed penalties and assessments.
890.1068
Effect of not contesting proposed penalties and assessments.
890.1069
Information the debarring official must consider in deciding a provider's contest of proposed penalties and assessments.
890.1070
Deciding contests of proposed penalties and assessments.
890.1071
Further appeal rights after final decision to impose penalties and assessments.
890.1072
Collecting penalties and assessments.

# Subpart K—Temporary Continuation of Coverage
890.1101
Purpose.
890.1102
Definitions.
890.1103
Eligibility.
890.1104
Notification by agency.
890.1105
Initial election of temporary continuation of coverage; application time limitations and effective dates.
890.1106
Coverage.
890.1107
Length of temporary continuation of coverage.
890.1108
Opportunities to change enrollment; effective dates.
890.1109
Premium payments.
890.1110
Termination of enrollment or coverage.
890.1111
Employing office responsibilities.
890.1112
Denial of continuation of coverage due to involuntary separation for gross misconduct.
890.1113
The administrative charge.

# Subpart L—Benefits for United States Hostages in Iraq and Kuwait and United States Hostages Captured in Lebanon
890.1201
Purpose.
890.1202
Definitions.
890.1203
Coverage.
890.1204
Effective date of coverage.
890.1205
Change in type of enrollment.
890.1206
Cancellation of coverage.
890.1207
Termination of coverage.
890.1208
Premiums.
890.1209
Responsibilities of the U.S. Department of State.
890.1210
Reconsideration and appeal rights.

# Subpart M—Department of Defense Federal Employees Health Benefits Program Demonstration Project
890.1301
Purpose.
890.1302
Duration.
890.1303
Eligibility.
890.1304
Enrollment.
890.1305
Termination and cancellation.
890.1306
Government premium contributions.
890.1307
Data collection.
890.1308
Carrier participation.

# Subpart N—Federal Employees Health Benefits For Employees of Certain Indian Tribal Employers
890.1401
Purpose.
890.1402
Definitions and deemed references.
890.1403
Tribal employer purchase of FEHB requires current deposit of payment and timely payment of administrative fee.
890.1404
Tribal employer election and agreement to purchase FEHB.
890.1405
Tribal employees eligible for enrollment.
890.1406
Correction of enrollment errors.
890.1407
Enrollment process; effective dates.
890.1408
Change in enrollment type, plan, or option.
890.1409
Cancellation of coverage or decreases in enrollment.
890.1410
Termination of enrollment and 31-day temporary extension of coverage; and conversion to individual policy.
890.1411
Temporary Continuation of Coverage (TCC).
890.1412
Non-pay status, insufficient pay, or change to ineligible position.
890.1413
Premiums and administrative fee.
890.1414
Responsibilities of the tribal employer.
890.1415
Reconsideration of enrollment and eligibility decisions and appeal rights.
890.1416
Filing claims for payment or service and court review.
890.1417
No continuation of FEHB enrollment into retirement from employment with a tribal employer.
890.1418
No continuation of FEHB enrollment in compensationer status past 365 days.
Subpart O [Reserved]

# Subpart P—Postal Service Health Benefits Program
890.1601
Purpose.
890.1602
Definitions and deemed references.
890.1603
Eligibility for the Postal Service Health Benefits Program.
890.1604
Medicare enrollment requirement for certain Postal Service annuitants and eligible family members.
890.1605
Enrollment in the initial contract year.
890.1606
Opportunities to enroll, change enrollment, or reenroll; effective dates.
890.1607
Initial decision and reconsideration.
890.1608
Disenrollment, removal, termination, cancellation, and suspension.
890.1609
Temporary extension of coverage, conversion, or temporary continuation of coverage.
890.1610
Minimum standards for PSHB Program plans and Carriers.
890.1611
Withdrawal of approval of health benefits plan or carrier.
890.1612
Information sharing.
890.1613
Postal Service contract year beginning date, Medicare late enrollment penalty, calculations for the Postal Service
Retiree Health Benefits Fund, and clarification of statutory terms.
890.1614
Other administrative provisions.
890.1615
Crediting separate reserves for PSHB.
890.1616
Medicare Part D.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8913; Sec. 890.102 also issued under sections 11202(f), 11232(e), and 11246 (b) of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 251; Sec. 890.111 also issued under 36 U.S.C. 5522; Sec. 890.112 also issued under 2 U.S.C. 2051; Sec. 890.113 also issued under section 1110 of Pub. L. 116-92, 133 Stat. 1198 (5 U.S.C. 8702 note); Sec. 890.301 also issued under 26 U.S.C. 9801; Sec. 890.302(b) also issued under 42 U.S.C. 300gg-14; Sec. 890.803 also issued under 50 U.S.C. 3516 (formerly 50 U.S.C. 403p) and 22 U.S.C. 4069c and 4069c-1; subpart L also issued under section 599C of Pub. L. 101-513, 104 Stat. 2064 (5 U.S.C. 5561 note); subpart M also issued under 10 U.S.C. 1108 and 25 U.S.C. 1647b; and subpart P issued under 5 U.S.C. 8903c.

# Source:
33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administration and General Provisions
§ 890.101
Definitions; time computations.
(a) In this part, the terms
annuitant, carrier, employee, employee organization, former spouse, health benefits plan, member of family,
and
service
have the meanings set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8901; the terms
Postal Service, Postal Service annuitant,
and
Postal Service employee
have the meanings set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8903c; and these terms supplement the following definitions:
Appropriate request
means a properly completed health benefits registration form or an alternative method acceptable to both the employing office and OPM. Alternative methods must be capable of transmitting to the health benefits plans the information they require before accepting an enrollment, change of enrollment, or cancellation. Electronic signatures, including the use of Personal Identification Numbers (PIN), have the same validity as a written signature.
Basic employee death benefit
has the meaning set out at § 843.102. Survivors receiving this benefit are deemed to be “annuitants” for purposes of this chapter.
Cancel
means to submit to the employing office an appropriate request electing not to be enrolled by an enrollee who is eligible to continue enrollment.
Change the enrollment
means to submit to the employing office an appropriate request electing a change of enrollment to a different plan or option, or to a different type of coverage (self only, self plus one, or self and family).
Claim
means a request for (i) payment of a health-related bill; or (ii) provision of a health-related service or supply.
Compensation
means compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, which is payable because of a job-related injury or disease.
Compensationer
means an employee or former employee who is entitled to compensation and whom the Department of Labor determines is unable to return to duty. A compensationer is also an annuitant for purposes of chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
Congressional staff member
means an individual who is a full-time or part-time employee employed by the official office of a Member of Congress, whether in Washington, DC or outside of Washington, DC.
Covered individual
means an enrollee or a covered family member.
Covered family member
means a member of the family of an enrollee with a self plus one or self and family enrollment who meets the requirements of §§ 890.302, 890.804, or 890.1106(a), as appropriate to the type of enrollee.
Decrease enrollment type
means a change in enrollment from self and family to self plus one or to self only or a change from self plus one to self only.
Election not to enroll
means to submit to the employing office an appropriate request electing not to be enrolled by an employee who is eligible to enroll.
Eligible
means eligible under the law and this part to be enrolled.
Employing office
means the office of an agency to which jurisdiction and responsibility for health benefits actions for an employee, an annuitant, a former spouse eligible for continued coverage under subpart H of this part, or an individual eligible for temporary continuation of coverage under subpart K of this part, have been delegated.
(1) For an enrolled annuitant (including survivor annuitant, former spouse annuitant, and surviving spouses receiving a basic employee death benefit under 5 U.S.C. 8442(b)(1)(A)) who is not also an eligible employee,
employing office
is the office which has the authority to approve payment of annuity, basic employee death benefit, or workers' compensation for the annuitant concerned.
(2) For a former spouse of an annuitant whose marriage dissolved after the employee's retirement and who has entitlement to receive future annuity payments under sections 8341(h), 8345(j), 8445, or 8467 of title 5, United States Code,
employing office
is the office that has the authority to approve payment of annuity for the annuitant or former spouse concerned.
(3) For a former spouse of a current employee, and a former spouse of an annuitant or separated employee having title to a deferred annuity or to an immediate annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8412(g), whose marriage dissolved during the employee's Federal service,
employing office
is the agency that employed the employee or annuitant at the time the marriage was dissolved.
(4) For a surviving spouse in receipt of a basic employee death benefit under 5 U.S.C. 8442(b)(1)(A) who is not also an eligible employee, the
employing office
is the retirement system which has authority to approve the basic employee death benefit.
(5) For a former spouse of an employee or former employee of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) whose marriage was dissolved before May 7, 1985, and who meets the requirements under § 890.803(a)(3)(iv), the
employing office
is the CIA.
(6) For a former spouse of an employee or former employee of the Foreign Service whose marriage was dissolved before May 7, 1985, and who meets the requirements under § 890.803(a)(3)(v) of this part, the
employing office
is the Department of State.
(7) [Reserved]
(8) For a former spouse of an employee who separated from service after qualifying for an immediate annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8412(g), whose marriage dissolves after the employee separated from service but before the date the separated employee's annuity commences, and who is entitled to continued coverage under subpart H of this part,
employing office
is the office that has the authority to approve payment of annuity for the annuitant or former spouse concerned.
Enroll
means to submit to the employing office an appropriate request electing to be enrolled in a health benefits plan.
Enrolled
means an appropriate request has been accepted by the employing office and the enrollment in a health benefits plan approved by OPM under this part has not been terminated or cancelled.
Enrollee
means the individual in whose name the enrollment is carried. The term includes employees, annuitants, former employees, former spouses, or children who are enrolled after completing an appropriate request under the provisions of §§ 890.301, 890.306, 890.601, 890.803, or 890.1103 or have continued an enrollment as an annuitant or survivor annuitant under 5 U.S.C. 8905(b) or § 890.303.
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program
means the health insurance program administered by the Office of Personnel Management and established under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89.
FEHB plan
means a health benefits plan as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8901(6) and governed by this part, with the exception of a PSHB plan.
Foster child
means a child who:
(1) Lives with an employee, former employee, or annuitant or with a child enrolled under § 890.1103(a)(2) in a regular parent-child relationship and
(2) Is expected to be raised to adulthood by the enrollee.
Immediate annuity
means an annuity which begins to accrue not later than 1 month after the date enrollment under a health benefits plan would cease for an employee or member of family if he or she were not entitled to continue enrollment as an annuitant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an annuity which commences on the birth of the posthumous child of an employee or annuitant is an immediate annuity. For an individual who separates from service upon meeting the requirements for an annuity under § 842.204(a)(1) of
this chapter, immediate annuity includes an annuity for which the commencing date is postponed under § 842.204(c). For phased retirees, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8336a and 8412a, a composite retirement annuity is an immediate annuity.
Increase enrollment type
means a change in enrollment from self only to self plus one or to self and family or a change from self plus one to self and family.
Letter of credit
is defined in 48 CFR 1602.170-10.
Medicare covered member of family
means an individual who is both a covered Medicare individual and a member of family of a Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant.
Member of Congress
means a member of the Senate or of the House of Representatives, a Delegate to the House of Representatives, and the Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico.
Option
means a level of benefits. It does not include distinctions as to whether the members of the family are covered.
OWCP
means the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, which administers subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code.
Pay period
means the biweekly pay period established pursuant to section 5504 of title 5, United States Code, for the employees to whom that section applies and the regular pay period for employees not covered by that section.
Pay period,
as it relates to a former spouse or annuitant who is not actively receiving an annuity, including surviving spouses receiving a basic employee death benefit, and enrollees temporarily continuing coverage under subpart K of this part, means any regular pay period for employees of the agency to which jurisdiction and responsibility for health benefits actions for the enrollee have been delegated as provided under the definition of “employing office” in this section.
Pay period
for annuitants in active receipt of annuity means the period for which a single installment of annuity is customarily paid.
Postal Service Health Benefits (PSHB) Program
means the health insurance program established under 5 U.S.C. 8903c within the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant
means an individual who is both a covered Medicare individual and a Postal Service annuitant.
PSHB plan
means a health benefits plan offered under the PSHB Program.
Reconsideration
means the final level of administrative review of an employing office's initial decision to determine if the employing office correctly applied the law and regulations.
Reimbursement
means a carrier's pursuit of a recovery if a covered individual has suffered an illness or injury and has received, in connection with that illness or injury, a payment from any party that may be liable, any applicable insurance policy, or a workers' compensation program or insurance policy, and the terms of the carrier's health benefits plan require the covered individual, as a result of such payment, to reimburse the carrier out of the payment to the extent of the benefits initially paid or provided. The right of reimbursement is cumulative with and not exclusive of the right of subrogation.
Self and family enrollment
means an enrollment that covers the enrollee and all eligible family members.
Self only enrollment
means an enrollment that covers only the enrollee.
Self plus one enrollment
means an enrollment that covers the enrollee and one eligible family member.
SHOP
has the meaning given in 45 CFR 155.20.
Subrogation
means a carrier's pursuit of a recovery from any party that may be liable, any applicable insurance policy, or a workers' compensation program or insurance policy, as successor to the rights of a covered individual who suffered an illness or injury and has obtained benefits from that carrier's health benefits plan.
Switch a covered family member
means, under a self plus one enrollment, to terminate or cancel the enrollment of the designated covered family member and designate another eligible family member for coverage.
Underdeduction
means a failure to withhold the required amount of health benefits contributions from an individual's pay, annuity, or compensation.
This definition includes both nondeductions (when none of the required amounts was withheld) and partial deductions (when only part of the required amount was withheld). Though FEHB contributions are required to cover a period of nonpay status, the nonpayment of contributions during such period does not result in an underdeduction.
(b) Whenever, in this part, a period of time is stated as a number of days or a number of days from an event, the period is computed in calendar days, excluding the day of the event. Whenever, in this part, a period of time is defined by beginning and ending dates, the period includes the beginning and ending dates.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 890.101, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 890.102
Coverage.
(a) Each employee, other than those excluded by paragraph (c) of this section, is eligible to be enrolled in a health benefits plan at the time and under the conditions prescribed in this part.
(b) An employee who serves in cooperation with non-Federal agencies and is paid in whole or in part from non-Federal funds may register to be enrolled within the period prescribed by OPM for the group of which the employee is a member following approval by OPM of arrangements providing that (1) the required withholdings and contributions will be made from Federally-controlled funds and timely deposited into the Employees Health Benefits Fund, or (2) the cooperating non-Federal agency will, by written agreement with the Federal agency, make the required withholdings and contributions from non-Federal funds and transmit them for timely deposit into the Employees Health Benefits Fund.
(c) The following employees are not eligible:
(1) An employee (other than an acting postmaster, a Presidential appointee appointed to fill an unexpired term, and an appointee whose appointment meets the definition of provisional appointment set out in §§ 316.401 and 316.403 of this chapter) who is serving under an appointment limited to 1 year or less and who has not completed 1 year of current continuous employment, excluding any break in service of 5 days or less.
(2) An employee who is expected to work less than 6 months in each year, except for an employee who receives an appointment of at least 1 year's duration as an Intern under § 213.3402(a) of this chapter and who is expected to be in a pay status for at least one-third of the total period of time from the date of the first appointment to the completion of the Internship Program.
(3) An intermittent employee—a non-full-time employee without a prearranged regular tour of duty.
(4) A beneficiary or patient employee in a Government hospital or home.
(5) An employee paid on a contract or fee basis, except an employee who is a citizen of the United States who is appointed by a contract between the employee and the Federal employing authority which requires his personal service and is paid on the basis of units of time.
(6) An employee paid on a piecework basis, except one whose work schedule provides for full-time service or part-time service with a regular tour of duty.
(7) An individual first employed by the government of the District of Columbia on or after October 1, 1987. However, this exclusion does not apply to:
(i) Employees of St. Elizabeths Hospital who accept offers of employment with the District of Columbia government without a break in service, as provided in section 6 of Pub. L. 98-621 (98 Stat. 3379);
(ii) The Corrections Trustee and the Pretrial Services, Defense Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee and employees of these Trustees who accept employment with the District of Columbia government within 3 days after separating from the Federal Government; and
(iii) Effective October 1, 1997, judges and nonjudicial employees of the District of Columbia Courts, as provided by Pub. L. 105-33 (111 Stat. 251).
(8) An individual first employed by the government of the District of Columbia on or after October 1, 1987. However, this exclusion does not apply to:
(i) Employees of St. Elizabeths Hospital who accept offers of employment with the District of Columbia government without a break in service, as provided in section 6 of Pub. L. 98-621 (98 Stat. 3379);
(ii) The Corrections Trustee and the Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee and employees of these Trustees who accept employment with the District of Columbia government within 3 days after separating from the Federal Government;
(iii) Effective October 1, 1997, judges and nonjudicial employees of the District of Columbia Courts, as provided by Pub. L. 105-33 (111 Stat. 251); and
(iv) Effective April 1, 1999, employees of the Public Defender Service of the District of Columbia, as provided by Pub. L. 105-274 (112 Stat. 2419).
(9) The following employees are not eligible to purchase a health benefit plan for which OPM contracts or which OPM approves under this paragraph (c), but may purchase health benefit plans, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8901(6), that are offered by an appropriate SHOP as determined by the Director, pursuant to section 1312(d)(3)(D) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, Public Law 111-152 (the Affordable Care Act or the Act):
(i) A Member of Congress.
(ii) A congressional staff member, if the individual is determined by the employing office of the Member of Congress to meet the definition of congressional staff member in § 890.101 as of January 1, 2014, or in any subsequent calendar year. Designation as a congressional staff member shall be an annual designation made prior to November 2013 for the plan year effective January 1, 2014 and October of each year for subsequent years or at the time of hiring for individuals whose employment begins during the year. The designation shall be made for the duration of the year during which the staff member works for the Member of Congress beginning with the January 1st following the designation and continuing to December 31st of that year.
(d) Paragraph (c) of this section does not deny coverage to:
(1) An employee appointed to perform “part-time career employment,” as defined in section 3401(2) of title 5, United States Code, and 5 CFR part 340, subpart B; or
(2) An employee serving under an interim appointment established under § 772.102 of this chapter.
(e) With the exception of those employees or groups of employees listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Office of Personnel Management makes the final determination of the applicability of this section to specific employees or groups of employees.
(1) Employees identified in paragraph (c)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) [Reserved]
(f) An employee of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (the Authority) who makes an election under the Technical Corrections to Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act (section 153 of Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321) to be considered a Federal employee for health benefits and other benefit purposes is subject to this part. If the employee is eligible to make an election to enroll under § 890.301, such election must be made within 60 days after the later of either the date the employment with the Authority begins or the date the Authority receives his or her election to be considered a Federal employee. Employees of the Authority who are former Federal employees are subject to the provisions of § 890.303(a), except that a former Federal employee employed by the Authority before October 26, 1996, and within 3 days following the termination of the Federal employment may make an election to enroll under § 890.301(c). Annuitants who have continued their coverage under this part as annuitants are not eligible to enroll under this paragraph. An election to enroll under this part is effective under the provisions of § 890.306(a) unless the employee requests the Authority to make the enrollment effective on the first day of the first pay period following the date
the employee entered on duty in a pay status with the Authority.
(g) Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, the hiring of a Federal employee, whether in pay status or nonpay status, for a temporary, intermittent position with the decennial census has no effect on the withholding or Government contribution for his/her coverage or the determination of when 365 days in nonpay status ends.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, an employee who is in a position identified by OPM that provides emergency response services for wildland fire protection is eligible to be enrolled in a health benefits plan under this part.
(i) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, upon request by the employing agency, OPM may grant eligibility to employees performing similar types of emergency response services to enroll in a health benefits plan under this part. In granting eligibility requests, OPM may limit the coverage of intermittent employees under a health benefits plan to the periods of time during which they are in a pay status.
(j)(1) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, a non-Postal employee working on a temporary appointment, a non-Postal employee working on a seasonal schedule of less than 6 months in a year, or a non-Postal employee working on an intermittent schedule, for whom the employing office expects the total hours in pay status (including overtime hours) plus qualifying leave without pay hours to be at least 130 hours per calendar month, is eligible to enroll in a health benefits plan under this part as follows:
(i) If the employing office expects the employee to work at least 90 days, the employee is eligible to enroll upon notification of the employee's eligibility by the employing office, and
(ii) If the employing office expects the employee to work for fewer than 90 days and the employee actually works for fewer than 90 days, the employee will generally be ineligible to enroll in FEHB because the employee will not be employed at the end of the waiting period applicable to these employees. However, if the expectation changes and the employee is expected to work for 90 days or more, that individual is eligible to enroll upon notification by the employing office, but enrollment (including the effective date of coverage) must be no later than the end of the waiting period ending the 91st day after the first day of employment.
(2) An employee working on a temporary appointment, an employee working on a seasonal schedule of less than 6 months in a year, or an employee working on an intermittent schedule for whom the employing office expects the total hours in pay status (including overtime hours) plus qualifying leave without pay hours to be less than 130 hours per calendar month is generally ineligible to enroll in a health benefits plan under this part. If the expectation of hours of employment changes to 130 hours or more per month for a non-Postal employee, that employee is eligible to enroll in a health benefits plan under this part as described in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section.
(3) Once an employee is enrolled under this paragraph (j), eligibility will not be revoked, regardless of his or her actual work schedule or employer expectations in subsequent years, unless the employee separates from Federal service, receives a new appointment (in which case eligibility will be determined by the rules applicable to the new appointment), or exceeds 365 days in nonpay status in accordance with § 890.303(e) (subject to extension, if applicable, for qualifying leave without pay as defined at paragraph (j)(4) of this section).
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (j), “qualifying leave without pay hours” means hours of leave without pay for purposes of taking leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act, for performance of duty in the uniformed services under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, 38 U.S.C. 4301 et seq., for receiving medical treatment under Executive Order 5396 (Jul. 7 1930), and for periods during which workers compensation is received under the Federal Employees Compensation Act, 5 U.S.C. chapter 81.
(5) Each temporary employee who is initially eligible for FEHB coverage on the basis of this paragraph (j) is entitled to enroll in accordance with § 890.301(a). A temporary employee who is currently eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8906a (with no Government contribution) but who is not enrolled on November 17, 2014, and who would also meet eligibility requirements on the basis of paragraph (j), is entitled to enroll (with a Government contribution) on the basis of paragraph (j) in accordance with § 890.301(h)(4)(ii). A temporary employee who is enrolled under 5 U.S.C. 8906a (with no Government contribution) on November 17, 2014, and who would also meet eligibility requirements on the basis of paragraph (j), is entitled to change enrollment (with a Government contribution) on the basis of paragraph (j) in accordance with § 890.301(h)(4)(ii).
(k) The Director, upon written request of an employer of employees other than those covered by 5 U.S.C. 8901(1)(A), may, in his or her sole discretion, waive application of paragraph (j) of this section to its employees when the employer demonstrates to the Director that the waiver is necessary to avoid an adverse impact on the employer's need to manage its workforce. However, a Tribal employer participating under 25 U.S.C. 1647b may provide a written notification to the Director that it has chosen not to apply paragraph (j) of this section for its workforce.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 890.102, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 890.103
Correction of errors.
(a) The employing office may make prospective corrections of administrative errors as to enrollment at any time. The employing office may make retroactive corrections of administrative errors that occur after December 31, 1994.
(b) OPM may order correction of an administrative error upon a showing satisfactory to OPM that it would be against equity and good conscience not to do so.
(c) The employing office may make retroactive correction of enrollee enrollment code errors if the enrollee reports the error by the end of the pay period following the one in which he or she received the first written documentation (i.e. pay statement or enrollment change confirmation) indicating the error.
(d) OPM may order the termination of an enrollment in any comprehensive medical plan described in section 8903(4) of title 5, United States Code, and permit the individual to enroll in another health benefits plan for purposes of this part, upon a showing satisfactory to OPM that the furnishing of adequate medical care is jeopardized by a seriously impaired relationship between a patient and the comprehensive medical plan's affiliated health care providers.
(e) Retroactive corrections are subject to withholdings and contributions under the provisions of § 890.502.
[45 FR 23637, Apr. 8, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 2, Jan. 4, 1988; 54 FR 52336, Dec. 21, 1989; 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990; 59 FR 66437, Dec. 27, 1994; 62 FR 38435, July 18, 1997]
§ 890.104
Initial decision and reconsideration on enrollment.
(a)
Who may file.
Except as provided under § 890.1112, an individual may request an agency or retirement system to reconsider an initial decision of its employing office denying coverage or change of enrollment.
(b)
Initial employing office decision.
An employing office's decision is considered an initial decision as used in paragraph (a) of this section when rendered by the employing office in writing and stating the right to an independent level of review (reconsideration) by the agency or retirement system. However, an initial decision rendered at the highest level of review available within OPM is not subject to reconsideration.
(c)
Reconsideration.
(1) A request for reconsideration must be made in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth, Social Security number, name of carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, retirement claim number.
(2) The reconsideration review must be an independent review designated at
or above the level at which the initial decision was rendered.
(d)
Time limit.
A request for reconsideration of an initial decision must be filed within 30 calendar days from the date of the written decision stating the right to a reconsideration. The time limit on filing may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit. An agency or retirement system decision in response to a request for reconsideration of an employing office's decision is a final decision as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Final decision.
After reconsideration, the agency or retirement system must issue a final decision, which must be in writing and must fully set forth the findings and conclusions.
[59 FR 66437, Dec. 27, 1994]
§ 890.105
Filing claims for payment or service.
(a)
General.
(1) Each health benefits carrier resolves claims filed under the plan. All health benefits claims must be submitted initially to the carrier of the covered individual's health benefits plan. If the carrier denies a claim (or a portion of a claim), the covered individual may ask the carrier to reconsider its denial. If the carrier affirms its denial or fails to respond as required by paragraph (c) of this section, the covered individual may ask OPM to review the claim. A covered individual must exhaust both the carrier and OPM review processes specified in this section before seeking judicial review of the denied claim.
(2) This section applies to covered individuals and to other individuals or entities who are acting on the behalf of a covered individual and who have the covered individual's specific written consent to pursue payment of the disputed claim.
(b)
Time limits for reconsidering a claim.
(1) The covered individual has 6 months from the date of the notice to the covered individual that a claim (or a portion of a claim) was denied by the carrier in which to submit a written request for reconsideration to the carrier. The time limit for requesting reconsideration may be extended when the covered individual shows that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.
(2) The carrier has 30 days after the date of receipt of a timely-filed request for reconsideration to:
(i) Affirm the denial in writing to the covered individual;
(ii) Pay the bill or provide the service; or
(iii) Request from the covered individual or provider additional information needed to make a decision on the claim. The carrier must simultaneously notify the covered individual of the information requested if it requests additional information from a provider. The carrier has 30 days after the date the information is received to affirm the denial in writing to the covered individual or pay the bill or provide the service. The carrier must make its decision based on the evidence it has if the covered individual or provider does not respond within 60 days after the date of the carrier's notice requesting additional information. The carrier must then send written notice to the covered individual of its decision on the claim. The covered individual may request OPM review as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section if the carrier fails to act within the time limit set forth in this paragraph (b)(2)(iii).
(3) The covered individual may write to OPM and request that OPM review the carrier's decision if the carrier either affirms its denial of a claim or fails to respond to a covered individual's written request for reconsideration within the time limit set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The covered individual must submit the request for OPM review within the time limit specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(4) The carrier may extend the time limit for a covered individual's submission of additional information to the carrier when the covered individual shows he or she was not notified of the time limit or was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from submitting the additional information.
(c)
Information required to process requests for reconsideration.
(1) The covered individual must put the request to the carrier to reconsider a claim in writing and give the reasons, in terms of applicable brochure provisions, that the denied claim should have been approved.
(2) If the carrier needs additional information from the covered individual to make a decision, it must:
(i) Specifically identify the information needed;
(ii) State the reason the information is required to make a decision on the claim;
(iii) Specify the time limit (60 days after the date of the carrier's request) for submitting the information; and
(iv) State the consequences of failure to respond within the time limit specified, as set out in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(d)
Carrier determinations.
The carrier must provide written notice to the covered individual of its determination. If the carrier affirms the initial denial, the notice must inform the covered individual of:
(1) The specific and detailed reasons for the denial;
(2) The covered individual's right to request a review by OPM; and
(3) The requirement that requests for OPM review must be received within 90 days after the date of the carrier's denial notice and include a copy of the denial notice as well as documents to support the covered individual's position.
(e)
OPM review.
(1) If the covered individual seeks further review of the denied claim, the covered individual must make a request to OPM to review the carrier's decision. Such a request to OPM must be made:
(i) Within 90 days after the date of the carrier's notice to the covered individual that the denial was affirmed;
(ii) If the carrier fails to respond to the covered individual as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, within 120 days after the date of the covered individual's timely request for reconsideration by the carrier; or
(iii) Within 120 days after the date the carrier requests additional information from the covered individual, or the date the covered individual is notified that the carrier is requesting additional information from a provider. OPM may extend the time limit for a covered individual's request for OPM review when the covered individual shows he or she was not notified of the time limit or was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from submitting the request for OPM review within the time limit.
(2) In reviewing a claim denied by the carrier, OPM may:
(i) Request that the covered individual submit additional information;
(ii) Obtain an advisory opinion from an independent physician;
(iii) Obtain any other information as may in its judgment be required to make a determination; or
(iv) Make its decision based solely on the information the covered individual provided with his or her request for review.
(3) When OPM requests information from the carrier, the carrier must release the information within 30 days after the date of OPM's written request unless a different time limit is specified by OPM in its request.
(4) Within 90 days after receipt of the request for review, OPM will either:
(i) Give a written notice of its decision to the covered individual and the carrier; or
(ii) Notify the individual of the status of the review. If OPM does not receive requested evidence within 15 days after expiration of the applicable time limit in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, OPM may make its decision based solely on information available to it at that time and give a written notice of its decision to the covered individual and to the carrier.
(5) OPM, upon its own motion, may reopen its review if it receives evidence that was unavailable at the time of its original decision.
[61 FR 15178, Apr. 5, 1996]
§ 890.106
Carrier entitlement to pursue subrogation and reimbursement recoveries.
(a) All health benefit plan contracts shall provide that the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) carrier is entitled to pursue subrogation and reimbursement recoveries, and shall have a policy to pursue such recoveries in
accordance with the terms of this section.
(b)(1) Any FEHB carriers' right to pursue and receive subrogation and reimbursement recoveries constitutes a condition of and a limitation on the nature of benefits or benefit payments and on the provision of benefits under the plan's coverage.
(2) Any health benefits plan contract that contains a subrogation or reimbursement clause shall provide that benefits and benefit payments are extended to a covered individual on the condition that the FEHB carrier may pursue and receive subrogation and reimbursement recoveries pursuant to the contract.
(c) Contracts shall provide that the FEHB carriers' rights to pursue and receive subrogation or reimbursement recoveries arise upon the occurrence of the following:
(1) The covered individual has received benefits or benefit payments as a result of an illness or injury; and
(2) The covered individual has accrued a right of action against a third party for causing that illness or injury; or has received a judgment, settlement or other recovery on the basis of that illness or injury; or is entitled to receive compensation or recovery on the basis of the illness or injury, including from insurers of individual (non-group) policies of liability insurance that are issued to and in the name of the enrollee or a covered family member.
(d) A FEHB carrier's exercise of its right to pursue and receive subrogation or reimbursement recoveries does not give rise to a claim within the meaning of 5 CFR 890.101 and is therefore not subject to the disputed claims process set forth at 5 CFR 890.105.
(e) Any subrogation or reimbursement recovery on the part of a FEHB carrier shall be effectuated against the recovery first (before any of the rights of any other parties are effectuated) and is not impacted by how the judgment, settlement, or other recovery is characterized, designated, or apportioned.
(f) Pursuant to a subrogation or reimbursement clause, the FEHB carrier may recover directly from any party that may be liable, or from the covered individual, or from any applicable insurance policy, or a workers' compensation program or insurance policy, all amounts available to or received by or on behalf of the covered individual by judgment, settlement, or other recovery, to the extent of the amount of benefits that have been paid or provided by the carrier.
(g) Any contract must contain a provision incorporating the carrier's subrogation and reimbursement rights as a condition of and a limitation on the nature of benefits or benefit payments and on the provision of benefits under the plan's coverage. The corresponding health benefits plan brochure must contain an explanation of the carrier's subrogation and reimbursement policy.
(h) A carrier's rights and responsibilities pertaining to subrogation and reimbursement under any FEHB contract relate to the nature, provision, and extent of coverage or benefits (including payments with respect to benefits) within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8902(m)(1). These rights and responsibilities are therefore effective notwithstanding any state or local law, or any regulation issued thereunder, which relates to health insurance or plans.
[80 FR 29204, May 21, 2015]
§ 890.107
Court review.
(a) A suit to compel enrollment under § 890.102 must be brought against the employing office that made the enrollment decision.
(b) A suit to review the legality of OPM's regulations under this part must be brought against the Office of Personnel Management.
(c) Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) carriers resolve FEHB claims under authority of Federal statute (5 U.S.C. chapter 89). A covered individual may seek judicial review of OPM's final action on the denial of a health benefits claim. A legal action to review final action by OPM involving such denial of health benefits must be brought against OPM and not against the carrier or carrier's subcontractors. The recovery in such a suit shall be limited to a court order directing OPM to require the carrier to pay the amount of benefits in dispute.
(d) An action under paragraph (c) of this section to recover on a claim for health benefits:
(1) May not be brought prior to exhaustion of the administrative remedies provided in § 890.105;
(2) May not be brought later than December 31 of the 3rd year after the year in which the care or service was provided; and
(3) Will be limited to the record that was before OPM when it rendered its decision affirming the carrier's denial of benefits.
(e) A suit for equitable relief founded on 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 that is based on 5 U.S.C. 8902(p) and is governed by 5 CFR part 890 must be brought against OPM by December 31 of the 3rd year after the year in which disputed services were rendered.
(f) A suit to compel enrollment or for equitable relief from an adverse enrollment action founded on 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 that is based on information received by OPM pursuant to an agreement with a source agency as defined at § 890.1602, to determine whether Postal Service annuitants or family members of such annuitants satisfy the enrollment requirements set forth in 5 U.S.C. 8903c, may not be brought later than December 31 of the 3rd year after the year in which the enrollment action was effectuated, and will be limited to the record that was before OPM when it effectuated the enrollment action.
[61 FR 15179, Apr. 5, 1996, as amended at 86 FR 36947, July 13, 2021; 89 FR 85028, Oct. 24, 2024]
§ 890.108
Will OPM waive requirements for continued coverage during retirement?
(a) Under 5 U.S.C. 8905(b), OPM may waive the eligibility requirements for health benefits coverage as an annuitant for an individual when, in its sole discretion, it determines that due to exceptional circumstances it would be against equity and good conscience not to allow a person to be enrolled in the FEHB Program as an annuitant.
(b) The individual's failure to satisfy the eligibility requirements must be due to exceptional circumstances. An individual requesting a waiver must provide OPM with evidence that:
(1) The individual intended to have FEHB coverage as an annuitant (retiree);
(2) The circumstances that prevented the individual from meeting the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 8905(b) were beyond the individual's control; and
(3) The individual acted reasonably to protect his or her right to continue coverage into retirement.
[72 FR 19100, Apr. 17, 2007]
§ 890.109
Exclusion of certain periods of eligibility when determining continued coverage during retirement.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, periods during which temporary employees are eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8906a to receive health benefits by enrolling and paying the full subscription charge, but are not eligible to participate in a retirement system, are not considered when determining eligibility for continued coverage during retirement. For the purpose of continuing coverage during retirement, an employee is considered to have enrolled at his or her first opportunity if the employee registered to be enrolled when he or she received a permanent appointment entitling him or her to participate in a retirement system and to receive the Government contribution toward the health benefits premium payments.
(b) A temporary employee eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8906a may continue enrollment as a compensationer if he or she has been enrolled or covered as a family member under another enrollment under this part for:
(1) The 5 years of service immediately preceding the commencement of his or her monthly compensation; or
(2) During all periods of service since his or her first opportunity to enroll, if less than 5 years. For the purpose of this paragraph, an employee is considered to have enrolled at his or her first opportunity if the employee registered to be enrolled when he or she first became eligible under 5 U.S.C. 8906a.
[58 FR 47824, Sept. 13, 1993]
§ 890.110
Enrollment reconciliation.
(a) Each employing office must report to each carrier or its surrogate on
a quarterly basis the names of the individuals who are enrolled in the carrier's plan in a format and containing such information as required by OPM.
(b) The carrier must compare the data provided with its own enrollment records. When the carrier finds in its total enrollment records individuals whose names do not appear in the report from the employing office of record, the carrier must request the employing office to provide the documentation necessary to resolve the discrepancy.
[63 FR 59459, Nov. 4, 1998; 63 FR 64761, Nov. 23, 1998]
§ 890.111
Continuation of eligibility for former Federal employees of the Civilian Marksmanship Program.
(a) A Federal employee who was employed by the Department of Defense to support the Civilian Marksmanship Program as of the day before the date of the transfer of the Program to the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety, and was offered and accepted employment by the Corporation as part of the transition described in section 1612(d) of Public Law 104-106, 110 Stat. 517, is deemed to be an employee for purposes of this part during continuous employment with the Corporation unless the individual files an election under § 831.206(c) or § 842.109(c) of this title. Such a covered individual is treated as if he or she were a Federal employee for purposes of this part, and of any other part within this title relating to the FEHB Program. The individual is entitled to the benefits of, and is subject to all conditions under, the FEHB Program on the same basis as if the individual were an employee of the Federal Government.
(b) Cessation of employment with the Corporation for any period terminates eligibility for coverage under the FEHB Program as an employee during any subsequent employment by the Corporation.
(c) The Corporation must withhold from the pay of an individual described by paragraph (a) of this section an amount equal to the premiums withheld from the pay of a Federal employee for FEHB coverage and, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Employees Health Benefits Fund the amounts deducted from the individual's pay.
(d) The Corporation must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Employees Health Benefits Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions required under the FEHB Program.
[74 FR 66567, Dec. 16, 2009]
§ 890.112
Continuation of coverage for certain Senate Restaurants employees.
(a) A Senate Restaurants employee who was an employee of the Architect of the Capitol on July 17, 2008, who accepted employment with the private business concern to which the Senate Restaurants' food service operations were transferred as described in section 1 of Public Law 110-279, and who elected to continue his or her Federal employee retirement benefits is deemed to be an employee for purposes of this part during continuous employment with the private business concern or its successor. The individual shall be entitled to the benefits of, and be subject to all conditions under, the FEHB Program on the same basis as if the individual were an employee of the Federal Government.
(b) Cessation of employment with the private business concern or its successor for any period terminates eligibility for coverage under the FEHB Program as an employee during any subsequent employment by the private business concern.
(c) The private business concern or its successor must make arrangements for the withholding from pay of an individual described by paragraph (a) of this section of an amount equal to the premiums withheld from Federal employees' pay for FEHB coverage and, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Employees Health Benefits Fund the amounts deducted from the individual's pay.
(d) The private business concern or its successor shall, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Employees Health Benefits Fund amounts equal to any agency
contributions required under the FEHB Program.
[75 FR 76616, Dec. 9, 2010]
§ 890.113
Designation of FEHB Program services as emergency services under the Antideficiency Act.
(a) Any services by an officer or employee under this part and part 892 of this chapter relating to the enrollment of an individual in a health benefits plan under this chapter, or changing the enrollment of an individual already so enrolled, shall be deemed, for purposes of section 1342 of Title 31, United States Code, as services for emergencies involving the safety of human life or the protection of property.
(b) The designation of services as emergency services shall apply to any lapse in appropriations beginning on or after December 20, 2019, the date of enactment of Section 1110(d) of Public Law 116-92.
[86 FR 17274, Apr. 2, 2021]
§ 890.114
Surprise billing and transparency.
(a) A carrier must comply with requirements described in 26 CFR 54.9816-3T through 54.9816-6T, 54.9816-8T, 54.9817-1T, 54.9817-2T, 54.9822-1T, and 54.9825-3T through 6T; 29 CFR 2590.716-3 through 2590.716-6, 2590.716-8, 2590.717-1, 2590.717-2, 2590.722, 2590.725-1 through 2590.725-4; and 45 CFR 149.30, 149.110 through 149.140, 149.310, 149.510 and 520, and 149.710 through 149.740 in the same manner as such provisions apply to a group health plan or health insurance issuer offering group or individual health insurance coverage, subject to 5 U.S.C. 8902(m)(1), and the provisions of the carrier's contract. For purposes of application of such sections, all carriers are deemed to offer health benefits in the large group market.
(b) For purposes of the provisions referenced in paragraph (a) of this section:
Group health plan or plan
shall mean a “health benefits plan” defined at 5 U.S.C. 8901(6), which is a Federal governmental plan offered pursuant to 5 U.S.C. chapter 89.
Health insurance issuer or issuer
shall include a carrier defined at 5 U.S.C. 8901(7). Where the carrier for a health benefits plan is a voluntary association, an association of organizations or entities, or is otherwise comprised of multiple entities, each entity is responsible for compliance in the same manner as such sections apply to group health plans and issuers. If and to the extent an entity offering a health benefits plan under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 is licensed under state law and is properly considered an issuer as defined at section 2791 of the Public Health Service Act, the entity is considered a carrier to the extent of its FEHB health benefits plan contractual and regulatory compliance.
Participant, beneficiary, or enrollee
shall include an “enrollee” or “covered individual” as defined by 5 CFR 890.101, as appropriate.
(c) When a complaint challenges a carrier's action or inaction with respect to the surprise billing provisions, OPM will coordinate with the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor, and the Treasury to resolve the complaint.
(d)(1) In addition to notification to the Department per 26 CFR 54.9816-8T(b)(2)(iii), 29 CFR 2590.716-8(b)(2)(iii), and 45 CFR 149.510(b)(2)(iii), a carrier must notify the Director of its initiation of the Federal IDR process, or its receipt of written notice that a provider, facility, or provider of air ambulance services has initiated the Federal IDR process, upon sending or receiving such notice.
(2) The Director will coordinate with the Departments in resolving matters under 26 CFR 54.9816-8T(c)(4)(vii)(A)(
1
), 29 CFR 2590.716-8(c)(4)(vii)(A)(
1
), or 45 CFR 149.510(c)(4)(vii)(A)(
1
) where fraud or material misrepresentation are presented, and matters involving 26 CFR 54.9816-8T(c)(4)(vii)(A)(
2
), 29 CFR 2590.716-8(c)(4)(vii)(A)(
2
), and 45 CFR 149.510(c)(4)(vii)(A)(
2
). The Director will coordinate with the Departments in oversight of reports submitted by certified IDR entities with respect to carriers pursuant to 26 CFR 54.9816-8T(f), 29 CFR 2590.716-8(f), or 45 CFR 149.510(f).
(e) [Reserved]
(f) The Director will coordinate with the Departments in oversight of prescription drug and health care spending
with respect to FEHB carriers pursuant to 45 CFR 149.710 through 149.740.
[86 FR 36947, July 13, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 56092, Oct. 7, 2021; 86 FR 66696, Nov. 23, 2021]
§ 890.115
Special provisions for Postal Service employees, Postal Service annuitants, and their eligible family members.
Special provisions for Postal Service employees, Postal Service annuitants, and their eligible family members are set forth at subpart P of this part. Provisions of this part generally apply to Postal Service employees, Postal Service annuitants, and their eligible family members, except for provisions which are inconsistent with provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8903c or subpart P.
[88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023]

# Subpart B—Health Benefits Plans
§ 890.201
Minimum standards for health benefits plans.
(a) To qualify for approval by OPM, a health benefits plan shall meet the following standards. Once approved, a health benefits plan shall continue to meet the minimum standards. Failure on the part of the carrier's plan to meet the standards is cause for OPM's withdrawal of approval of the plan in accordance with 5 CFR 890.204. A health benefits plan shall:
(1) Comply with chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, and this part, as amended from time to time.
(2) Accept the enrollment, in accordance with this part, and without regard to age, race, sex, health status, or hazardous nature of employment, of each eligible employee, annuitant, former spouse, former employee, or child, except that a plan that is sponsored or underwritten by an employee organization may not accept the enrollment of a person who is not a member of the organization, but it may not limit membership in the organization on account of the prohibited factors (age, race, sex, health status, or hazardous nature of employment). The carrier may terminate the enrollment of an enrollee other than a survivor annuitant, a former spouse continuing coverage under § 890.803, or person continuing coverage under § 890.1103(a) (2) or (3), in a health benefits plan sponsored or underwritten by an employee organization on account of termination of membership in the organization. A carrier that wants to terminate the enrollment of an enrollee under this paragraph may do so by notifying the employing office in writing, with a copy of the notice to the enrollee. The termination is effective at the end of the pay period in which the employing office receives the notice. A comprehensive medical plan need not enroll an employee, annuitant, former employee, former spouse, or child residing outside the geographic areas specified by the plan.
(3) Provide health benefits for each enrollee and covered family member wherever they may be.
(4) Provide for conversion to a contract for health benefits regularly offered by the carrier, or an appropriate affiliate, for group conversion purposes, which must be guaranteed renewable, subject to such amendments as apply to all contracts of this class, except that it may be canceled for fraud, overinsurance, or nonpayment of periodic charges. A carrier must permit conversion within the time allowed by the temporary extension of coverage provided under § 890.401 for each enrollee and covered family member entitled to convert. When an employing office gives an enrollee written notice of his or her privilege of conversion, the carrier must permit conversion at any time before 31 days after the date of notice or 91 days after the enrollment is terminated, whichever is earlier. Belated conversion opportunities as provided in § 890.401(c) must also be permitted by the carrier. When OPM requests an extension of time for conversion because of delayed determination of ineligibility for immediate annuity, the carrier must permit conversion until the date specified by OPM in its request for extension. On conversion, the contract becomes effective as of the day following the last day of the temporary extension, and the enrollee or covered family member, as the case may be, must pay the entire cost thereof directly to the carrier. The nongroup contract may not deny or delay any benefit covered by the contract for a person converting from a plan approved
under this part except to the extent that benefits are continued under the health benefits plan from which he or she converts.
(5) Provide that each enrollee receive an identification card or cards or other evidence of enrollment.
(6) Provide a standard rate structure that contains, for each option, one standard self only rate, one standard self plus one rate and one standard self and family rate.
(7) Maintain statistical records regarding the plan, separately from those of any other activities conducted or benefits offered by the carrier sponsoring or underwriting the plan.
(8) Provide for a special reserve for the plan. The carrier shall account for amounts retained by it as reserves for the plan separately from reserves maintained by it for other plans. The carrier shall invest the special reserve and income derived from the investment of the special reserve shall be credited to the special reserve. If the contract is terminated or approval of the plan is withdrawn, the carrier shall return the special reserve to the Employees Health Benefits Fund. However, in the case of a comprehensive medical plan, the carrier, without regard to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, shall follow such financial procedures as are mutually agreed on by the carrier and OPM.
(9) Provide for continued enrollment to the end of the current pay period, or termination date, if earlier, of each enrollee enrolled at the effective date of termination of a contract. The carrier is entitled to subscription charges for this continued enrollment.
(10) Provide that any covered expenses incurred from January 1 to the effective date of an open season change count toward the losing carrier's prior year deductible. If the prior year deductible or family limit on deductibles of the losing carrier had previously been met, the enrolled individual (and eligible family members) shall be eligible for reimbursement by the losing carrier for covered expenses incurred during the current year. Reimbursement of covered expenses shall apply only to covered expenses incurred from January 1 to the effective date of the open season change. This section shall not apply to any other permissible changes made during a contract year.
(11) Except where OPM determines otherwise, have 300 or more employees and annuitants, exclusive of family members, enrolled in the plan at some time during the preceding two contract terms.
(b) To be qualified to be approved by OPM and, once approved, to continue to be approved, a health benefits plan shall not:
(1) Deny a covered person a benefit provided by the plan for a service performed on or after the effective date of coverage solely because of a preexisting physical or mental condition.
(2) Require a waiting period for any covered person for benefits which it provides.
(3)(i) Have either more than three options, or more than two options and a high deductible health plan (26 U.S.C. 223(c)(2)(A)) if the plan is described under 5 U.S.C. 8903(1), (2), (3) or (4).
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) Have an initiation, service, enrollment, or other fee or charge in addition to the rate charged for the plan, except that a comprehensive medical plan may impose an additional charge to be paid directly by the enrollee for certain medical supplies and services, if the supplies and services on which additional charges are imposed are clearly set forth in advance and are applicable to all enrollees. This subparagraph does not apply to charges for membership in employee organizations sponsoring or underwriting plans.
(5) Paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section do not preclude a plan offering benefits for dentistry or cosmetic surgery, or both, limited to conditions arising after the effective date of coverage.
(c) The Director or his or her designee will determine whether to propose withdrawal of approval of the plan and hold a hearing based on the seriousness of the carrier's actions and its proposed method to effect corrective action.
(d) Nothing in this part shall limit or prevent a health insurance plan purchased through an appropriate SHOP as determined by the Director, pursuant to section 1312(d)(3)(D) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act, Public Law 111-148, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, Public Law 111-152 (the Affordable Care Act or the Act), by an employee otherwise covered by 5 U.S.C. 8901(1)(B) and (C) from being considered a “health benefit plan under this chapter” for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 8905(b) and 5 U.S.C. 8906.
[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 43 FR 52460, Nov. 13, 1978; 47 FR 14871, Apr. 6, 1982; 49 FR 48905, Dec. 17, 1984; 52 FR 10217, Mar. 31, 1987; 54 FR 52336, Dec. 21, 1989; 55 FR 9108, Mar. 12, 1990; 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990; 69 FR 31721, June 7, 2004; 75 FR 76616, Dec. 9, 2010; 78 FR 60656, Oct. 2, 2013; 80 FR 55734, Sept. 17, 2015; 83 FR 18401, Apr. 27, 2018]
§ 890.202
Minimum standards for health benefits carriers.
The minimum standards for health benefits carriers for the FEHB Program shall be those contained in 48 CFR subpart 1609.70.
[57 FR 14324, Apr. 20, 1992]
§ 890.203
Application for approval of, and proposal of amendments to, health benefit plans.
(a)
New plan applications.
(1) The Director of OPM shall consider applications to participate in the FEHB Program from comprehensive medical plans (CMP's) at his or her discretion. CMP's are automatically invited to submit applications annually to participate in the FEHB Program unless otherwise notified by OPM. If the Director should determine that it is not beneficial to the enrollees and the Program to consider applications for a specific contract year, OPM will publish a notice with a 60 day comment period in the
Federal Register
no less than 7 months prior to the date applications would be due for the specific contract year for which applications will not be accepted.
(2) When applications are considered, CMP's should apply for approval by writing to the Office of Personnel Management, Washington, DC 20415. Application letters must be accompanied by any descriptive material, financial data, or other documentation required by OPM. Plans must submit the letter and attachments in the OPM-specified format by January 31, or another date specified by OPM, of the year preceding the contract year for which applications are being accepted. Plans must submit evidence demonstrating they meet all requirements for approval by March 31 of the year preceding the contract year for which applications are being accepted. Plans that miss either deadline cannot be considered for participation in the next contract year. All newly approved plans must submit benefit and rate proposals to OPM by May 31 of the year preceding the contract year for which applications are being accepted in order to be considered for participation in that contract year. OPM may make counter-proposals at any time.
