(1) Examples of appropriate data and information include the chemical name, applicable registry numbers (such as a Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) registry number or an Enzyme Commission (EC) number), empirical formula, structural formula, quantitative composition, and characteristic properties.
(2) When the source of a notified substance is a biological material, you must include data and information sufficient to identify:
(i) The taxonomic source (
e.g.,
genus, species), including as applicable data and information at the sub-species level (
e.g.,
variety, strain);
(ii) The part of any plant or animal used as the source; and
(iii) Any known toxicants that could be in the source;
(b) A description of the method of manufacture of the notified substance in sufficient detail to evaluate the safety of the notified substance as manufactured;
(c) Specifications for material that is of appropriate grade for use in animal food; and
(d) When necessary to demonstrate safety, relevant data and information bearing on the physical or other technical effect the notified substance is intended to produce, including the quantity of the notified substance required to produce such effect.
§ 570.235
Part 3 of a GRAS notice: Target animal and human exposures.
In part 3 of your GRAS notice, you must provide data and information about exposure to the target animal and to humans consuming human food derived from food-producing animals, regardless of whether your conclusion of GRAS status is through scientific procedures or through experience based on common use in food, as follows:
(a) For exposure to the target animal, you must provide:
(1) The amount of the notified substance that different target animal species are likely to consume in the animal food (including drinking water) as part of the animal's total diet, including the intended use and all other sources in the total diet; and
(2) When applicable, the amount of any other substance that is expected to be formed in or on food because of the use of the notified substance (
e.g.,
hydrolytic products or reaction products);
(3) When applicable, the amount of any other substance that is present with the notified substance either naturally or due to its manufacture (
e.g.,
contaminants or by-products);
(4) The data and information you rely on to establish the amount of the notified substance and the amounts of any other substance in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section that different target animal species are likely to consume in the animal food (including drinking water) as part of the animal's total diet; and
(b) When the intended use is in food for food-producing animals, you must provide:
(1) The potential quantities of any residues that humans may be exposed to in edible animal tissues, including:
(i) Residues of the notified substance;
(ii) Residues of any other substance that is expected to be formed in or on the animal food because of the use of the notified substance; and
(iii) Residues from any other substance that is present with the notified substance whether naturally, due to its manufacture (
e.g.,
contaminants or by-products), or produced as a metabolite in edible animal tissues when the notified substance is consumed by a food-producing animal; and
(2) The data and information you rely on to establish, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the potential quantities of any residues that humans may be exposed to in edible animal tissues.
§ 570.240
Part 4 of a GRAS notice: Self-limiting levels of use.
In circumstances where the amount of the notified substance that can be added to animal food is limited because animal food containing levels of the notified substance above a particular level would become unpalatable or technologically impractical, in Part 4 of your GRAS notice you must include data and information on such self-limiting levels of use.
§ 570.245
Part 5 of a GRAS notice: Experience based on common use in food before 1958.
If the statutory basis for your conclusion of GRAS status is through experience based on common use in animal food, in Part 5 of your GRAS notice you must include evidence of a substantial history of consumption of the notified substance for food use by a significant number of animals of the species to which the substance is intended to be fed prior to January 1, 1958, and evidence of a substantial history of consumption by humans consuming human foods derived from food-producing animals prior to January 1, 1958.
§ 570.250
Part 6 of a GRAS notice: Narrative.
In Part 6 of your GRAS notice, you must include a narrative that provides
the basis for your conclusion of GRAS status, in which:
(a)(1) You must explain why the data and information in your notice provide a basis for your view that the notified substance is safe under the conditions of its intended use for both the target animal and for humans consuming human food derived from food-producing animals. In your explanation, you must address the safety of the notified substance, considering all animal food (including drinking water) as part of the animal's total diet, taking into account any chemically or pharmacologically related substances in such diet. In your explanation, you must also address the safety of the notified substance in regard to human exposure, considering all dietary sources and taking into account any chemically or pharmacologically related substances;
(2) In your explanation, you must identify what specific data and information that you discuss in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section are generally available, and what specific data and information that you discuss in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not generally available, by providing citations to the list of data and information that you include in Part 7 of your GRAS notice in accordance with § 570.255;
(b) You must explain how the generally available data and information that you rely on to establish safety in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section provide a basis for your conclusion that the notified substance is generally recognized, among qualified experts, to be safe under the conditions of its intended use for both the target animal and for humans consuming human food derived from food-producing animals;
(c) You must either:
(1) Identify, discuss, and place in context, data and information that are, or may appear to be, inconsistent with your conclusion of GRAS status, regardless of whether those data and information are generally available; or
(2) State that you have reviewed the available data and information and are not aware of any data and information that are, or may appear to be, inconsistent with your conclusion of GRAS status;
(d) If you view any of the data and information in your notice as exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, you must identify the specific data and information; and
(e) For non-public, safety-related data and information considered in reaching a conclusion of GRAS status, you must explain how there could be a basis for a conclusion of GRAS status if qualified experts do not have access to such data and information.
§ 570.255
Part 7 of a GRAS notice: List of supporting data and information in your GRAS notice.
(a) In part 7 of your GRAS notice, you must include a list of all of the data and information that you discuss in Part 6 of your GRAS notice to provide a basis for your view that the notified substance is safe under the conditions of its intended use as described in accordance with § 570.250(a)(1).
(b) You must specify which data and information that you list in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section are generally available, and which data and information are not generally available.
§ 570.260
Steps you may take before FDA responds to your GRAS notice.
(a) You may submit a timely amendment to your filed GRAS notice, to update your GRAS notice or in response to a question from us, before we respond to your notice by letter in accordance with § 570.265(b)(1) or cease to evaluate your notice in accordance with § 570.265(b)(3).
(b) At any time before we respond to your notice by letter in accordance with § 570.265(b)(1), you may request in writing that we cease to evaluate your GRAS notice. Your request does not preclude you from submitting a future GRAS notice in accordance with this subpart with respect to the notified substance.
§ 570.265
What FDA will do with a GRAS notice.
(a)(1) We will conduct an initial evaluation of your submission to determine whether to file it as a GRAS notice for
evaluation of your view that the notified substance is GRAS under the conditions of its intended use.
(2) If we file your submission as a GRAS notice, we will send you a letter that informs you of the date of filing.
(3) If we do not file your submission as a GRAS notice, we will send you a letter that informs you of that fact and provide our reasons for not filing the submission as a GRAS notice.
(4) We will consider any timely amendment that you submit to a filed GRAS notice, to update your GRAS notice or in response to a question from us, before we respond to you by letter in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if we deem that doing so is feasible within the timeframes established in paragraph (b) of this section. If we deem that considering your amendment is not feasible within the timeframes established in paragraph (b) of this section or if we have granted your request to cease to evaluate your notice, we will inform you that we are not considering your amendment.
(b)(1) Within 180 days of filing, we will respond to you by letter based on our evaluation of your notice. We may extend the 180 day timeframe by 90 days on an as needed basis.
(2) If we extend the timeframe, we will inform you in writing of the extension as soon as practicable but no later than within 180 days of filing.
(3) If you ask us to cease to evaluate your GRAS notice in accordance with § 570.260(b), we will send you a letter informing you of our decision regarding your request.
(c) If circumstances warrant, we will send you a subsequent letter about the notice.
§ 570.275
Public disclosure of a GRAS notice.
(a) The data and information in a GRAS notice (including data and information submitted in any amendment or supplement to your GRAS notice, or incorporated into your GRAS notice) are:
(1) Considered a mandatory, rather than voluntary, submission for purposes of their status under the Freedom of Information Act and our public information requirements in part 20 of this chapter; and
(2) Available for public disclosure in accordance with part 20 of this chapter as of the date that we receive your GRAS notice.
(b) We will make the following readily accessible to the public:
(1) A list of filed GRAS notices, including the information described in § 570.225(c)(2) through (c)(5);
(2) The text of any letter that we issue under § 570.265(b)(1) or (c); and
(3) The text of any letter that we issue under § 570.265(b)(3) if we grant your request that we cease to evaluate your notice.
(c) We will disclose all remaining data and information that are not exempt from public disclosure in accordance with part 20 of this chapter.
§ 570.280
Submission of a supplement.
If circumstances warrant, you may submit a supplement to a filed GRAS notice after we respond to your notice by letter in accordance with § 570.265(b)(1) or cease to evaluate your notice in accordance with § 570.265(b)(3).
Pt. 571

# PART 571—FOOD ADDITIVE PETITIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
571.1
Petitions.
571.6
Amendment of petition.
571.7
Withdrawal of petition without prejudice.

# Subpart B—Administrative Actions on Applications
571.100
Regulation based on petition.
571.102
Effective date of regulation.
571.110
Procedure for objections and hearings.
571.115
Application of the cancer clause of section 409 of the act.
571.130
Procedure for amending and repealing tolerances or exemptions from tolerances.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 342, 348, 371; 42 U.S.C. 241.

# Source:
41 FR 38647, Sept. 10, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 571.1
Petitions.
(a) Petitions to be filed with the Commissioner under the provisions of
section 409(b) of the act shall be submitted in triplicate. If any part of the material submitted is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by an accurate and complete English translation. The petition shall state petitioner's post office address to which published notices or orders issued or objections filed pursuant to section 409 of the act may be sent.
(b) Pertinent information may be incorporated in, and will be considered as part of, a petition on the basis of specific reference to such information submitted to and retained in the files of the Food and Drug Administration. However, any reference to unpublished information furnished by a person other than the applicant will not be considered unless use of such information is authorized in a written statement signed by the person who submitted it. Any reference to published information offered in support of a food-additive petition should be accompanied by reprints or photostatic copies of such references.
(c) Petitions shall include the following data and be submitted in the following form:
(Date)
Name of petitioner
Post office address
Date
Name of food additive and proposed use
Food and Drug Administration
Center for Veterinary Medicine,
Director, Division of Animal Feeds
(
HFV-220
),
7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855.
Dear Sirs:
The undersigned, ____
submits this petition pursuant to section 409(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act with respect to
(Name of the food additive and proposed use)
Attached hereto, in triplicate, and constituting a part of this petition, are the following:
A. The name and all pertinent information concerning the food additive, including chemical identity and composition of the food additive, its physical, chemical, and biological properties, and specifications prescribing the minimum content of the desired component(s) and identifying and limiting the reaction byproducts and other impurities. Where such information is not available, a statement as to the reasons why it is not should be submitted.
When the chemical identity and composition of the food additive is not known, the petition shall contain information in sufficient detail to permit evaluation regarding the method of manufacture and the analytical controls used during the various stages of manufacturing, processing, or packing of the food additive which are relied upon to establish that it is a substance of reproducible composition. Alternative methods and controls and variations in methods and controls within reasonable limits that do not affect the characteristics of the substance or the reliability of the controls may be specified.
If the food additive is a mixture of chemicals, the petition shall supply a list of all substances used in the synthesis, extraction, or other method of preparation, regardless of whether they undergo chemical change in the process. Each substance should be identified by its common English name and complete chemical name, using structural formulas when necessary for specific identification. If any proprietary preparation is used as a component, the proprietary name should be followed by a complete quantitative statement of composition. Reasonable alternatives for any listed substance may be specified.
If the petitioner does not himself perform all the manufacturing, processing, and packing operations for a food additive, the petition shall identify each person who will perform a part of such operations and designate the part.
The petition shall include stability data, and, if the data indicate that it is needed to ensure the identity, strength, quality, or purity of the additive, the expiration date that will be employed.
B. The amount of the food additive proposed for use and the purposes for which it is proposed, together with all directions, recommendations, and suggestions regarding the proposed use, as well as specimens of the labeling proposed for the food additive and any labeling that will be required by applicable provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act on the finished food by reason of the use of the food additive. If the additive results or may reasonably be expected to result from the use of packaging material, the petitioner shall show how this may occur and what residues may reasonably be anticipated.
(Typewritten or other draft-labeling copy will be accepted for consideration of the petition, provided a statement is made that final printed labeling identical in content to the draft copy will be submitted as soon as available and prior to the marketing of the food additive.
If the food additive is one for which a tolerance limitation is required to assure its safety, the level of use proposed should be no
higher than the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or other technical effect, even though the safety data may support a higher tolerance.)
C. Data establishing that the food additive will have the intended physical or other technical effect or that it may reasonably be expected to become a component, or to affect the characteristics, directly or indirectly, of food and the amount necessary to accomplish this. These data should include information in sufficient detail to permit evaluation with control data.
D. A description of practicable methods to determine the amount of the food additive in the raw, processed, and/or finished food and of any substance formed in or on such food because of its use. The test proposed shall be one that can be used for food-control purposes and that can be applied with consistent results by any properly equipped and trained laboratory personnel.
E. Full reports of investigations made with respect to the safety of the food additive.
(A petition may be regarded as incomplete unless it includes full reports of adequate tests reasonably applicable to show whether or not the food additive will be safe for its intended use. The reports ordinarily should include detailed data derived from appropriate animal and other biological experiments in which the methods used and the results obtained are clearly set forth. The petition shall not omit without explanation any reports of investigations that would bias an evaluation of the safety of the food additive.)
F. Proposed tolerances for the food additive, if tolerances are required in order to ensure its safety. A petitioner may include a proposed regulation.
G. If submitting petition to modify an existing regulation issued pursuant to section 409(c)(1)(A) of the act, full information on each proposed change that is to be made in the original regulation must be submitted. The petition may omit statements made in the original petition concerning which no change is proposed. A supplemental petition must be submitted for any change beyond the variations provided for in the original petition and the regulation issued on the basis of the original petition.
H. The petitioner is required to submit either a claim for categorical exclusion under § 25.30 or § 25.32 of this chapter or an environmental assessment under § 25.40 of this chapter.
Yours very truly,
Petitioner ____
By ____
(Indicate authority)
(d) The petitioner will be notified of the date on which his petition is filed, and an incomplete petition, or one that has not been submitted in triplicate, will usually be retained but not filed as a petition under section 409 of the act. The petitioner will be notified in what respects his petition is incomplete.
(e) The petition must be signed by the petitioner or by his attorney or agent, or (if a corporation) by an authorized official.
(f) The data specified under the several lettered headings should be submitted on separate sheets or sets of sheets, suitably identified. If such data have already been submitted with an earlier application, the present petition may incorporate it by specific reference to the earlier. If part of the data have been submitted by the manufacturer of the food additive as a master file, the petitioner may refer to the master file if and to the extent he obtains the manufacturer's written permission to do so. The manufacturer may authorize specific reference to the data without disclosure to the petitioner. Nothing herein shall prevent reference to published data.
(g) A petition shall be retained but shall not be filed if any of the data prescribed by section 409(b) of the act are lacking or are not set forth so as to be readily understood.
(h)(1) The following data and information in a food additive petition are available for public disclosure, unless extraordinary circumstances are shown, after the notice of filing of the petition is published in the
Federal Register
or, if the petition is not promptly filed because of deficiencies in it, after the petitioner is informed that it will not be filed because of the deficiencies involved:
(i) All safety and functionality data and information submitted with or incorporated by reference in the petition.
(ii) A protocol for a test or study, unless it is shown to fall within the exemption established for trade secrets and confidential commercial information in § 20.61 of this chapter.
(iii) Adverse reaction reports, product experience reports, consumer complaints, and other similar data and information, after deletion of:
(
a
) Names and any information that would identify the person using the product.
(
b
) Names and any information that would identify any third party involved
with the report, such as a physician or hospital or other institution.
(iv) A list of all ingredients contained in a food additive, whether or not it is in descending order of predominance. A particular ingredient or group of ingredients shall be deleted from any such list prior to public disclosure if it is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61 of this chapter, and a notation shall be made that any such ingredient list is incomplete.
(v) An assay method or other analytical method, unless it serves no regulatory or compliance purpose and is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61 of this chapter.
(2) The following data and information in a food additive petition are not available for public disclosure unless they have been previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 of this chapter or they relate to a product or ingredient that has been abandoned and they no longer represent a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in § 20.61 of this chapter:
(i) Manufacturing methods or processes, including quality control procedures.
(ii) Production, sales, distribution, and similar data and information, except that any compilation of such data and information aggregated and prepared in a way that does not reveal data or information which is not available for public disclosure under this provision is available for public disclosure.
(iii) Quantitative or semiquantitative formulas.
(3) All correspondence and written summaries of oral discussions relating to a food additive petition are available for public disclosure in accordance with the provisions of part 20 of this chapter when the food additive regulation is published in the
Federal Register.
(4) For purposes of this regulation, safety and functionality data include all studies and tests of a food additive on animals and humans and all studies and tests on a food additive for identity, stability, purity, potency, performance, and usefulness.
(i)(1) Within 15 days after receipt, the Commissioner will notify the petitioner of acceptance or nonacceptance of a petition, and if not accepted the reasons therefor. If accepted, the date of the notification letter sent to petitioner becomes the date of filing for the purposes of section 409(b)(5) of the act. If the petitioner desires, he may supplement a deficient petition after being notified regarding deficiencies. If the supplementary material or explanation of the petition is deemed acceptable, petitioner shall be notified. The date of such notification becomes the date of filing. If the petitioner does not wish to supplement or explain the petition and requests in writing that it be filed as submitted, the petition shall be filed and the petitioner so notified. The date of such notification becomes the date of filing.
(2) The Commissioner will publish in the
Federal Register
within 30 days from the date of filing of such petition, a notice of the filing, the name of the petitioner, and a brief description of the proposal in general terms. In the case of a food additive which becomes a component of food by migration from packaging material, the notice shall include the name of the migratory substance, and where it is different from that of one of the original components, the name of the parent component, the maximum quantity of the migratory substance that is proposed for use in food, and the physical or other technical effect which the migratory substance or its parent component is intended to have in the packaging material. A copy of the notice will be mailed to the petitioner when the original is forwarded to the
Federal Register
for publication.
(j) The Commissioner may request a full description of the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the production of the food additive, or a sample of the food additive, articles used as components thereof, or of the food in which the additive is proposed to be used, at any time while a petition is under consideration. The Commissioner shall specify in the request for a sample of the food additive, or articles used as components thereof, or of the food in or on which the additive is proposed to be used, a quantity deemed adequate to permit tests of analytical methods to determine quantities of the
food additive present in foods for which it is intended to be used or adequate for any study or investigation reasonably required with respect to the safety of the food additive or the physical or technical effect it produces. The date used for computing the 90-day limit for the purposes of section 409(c)(2) of the act shall be moved forward 1 day for each day after the mailing date of the request taken by the petitioner to submit the sample. If the information or sample is requested a reasonable time in advance of the 180 days, but is not submitted within such 180 days after filing of the petition, the petition will be considered withdrawn without prejudice.
(k) If nonclinical laboratory studies are involved, petitions filed with the Commissioner under section 409(b) of the act shall include, with respect to each study, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the requirements set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance.
[41 FR 38647, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 15675, Mar. 22, 1977; 50 FR 7518, Feb. 22, 1985; 50 FR 16668, Apr. 26, 1985; 52 FR 8583, Mar. 19, 1987; 57 FR 6476, Feb. 25, 1992; 62 FR 40600, July 29, 1997]
§ 571.6
Amendment of petition.
After a petition has been filed, the petitioner may submit additional information or data in support thereof. In such cases, if the Commissioner determines that the additional information or data amounts to a substantive amendment, the petition as amended will be given a new filing date, and the time limitation will begin to run anew. If nonclinical laboratory studies are involved, additional information and data submitted in support of filed petitions shall include, with respect to each such study, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the requirements set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason or the noncompliance.
[41 FR 38647, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 50 FR 7518, Feb. 22, 1985; 50 FR 16668, Apr. 26, 1985]
§ 571.7
Withdrawal of petition without prejudice.
(a) In some cases the Commissioner will notify the petitioner that the petition, while technically complete, is inadequate to justify the establishment of a regulation or the regulation requested by petitioner. This may be due to the fact that the data are not sufficiently clear or complete. In such cases, the petitioner may withdraw the petition pending its clarification or the obtaining of additional data. This withdrawal will be without prejudice to a future filing. Upon refiling, the time limitation will begin to run anew from the date of refiling.
(b) At any time before the order provided for in § 571.100(a) has been forwarded to the
Federal Register
for publication, the petitioner may withdraw the petition without prejudice to a future filing. Upon refiling the time limitation will begin to run anew.

# Subpart B—Administrative Actions on Applications
§ 571.100
Regulation based on petition.
(a) The Commissioner will forward for publication in the
Federal Register,
within 90 days after filing of the petition (or within 180 days if the time is extended as provided for in section 409(c)(2) of the act), a regulation prescribing the conditions under which the food additive may be safely used (including, but not limited to, specifications as to the particular food or classes of food in or on which such additive may be used, the maximum quantity that may be used or permitted to remain in or on such food, the manner in which such additive may be added to or used in or on such food, and any directions or other labeling or packaging requirements for such additive deemed necessary by him to assure the safety of such use), and prior to the forwarding of the order to the
Federal Register
for publication shall notify the petitioner of such order and the reasons for such action; or by order
deny the petition, and shall notify the petitioner of such order and of the reasons for such action.
(b) If the Commissioner determines that additional time is needed to study and investigate the petition, he shall by written notice to the petitioner extend the 90-day period for not more than 180 days after the filing of the petition.
§ 571.102
Effective date of regulation.
A regulation published in accordance with § 571.100(a) shall become effective upon publication in the
Federal Register.
§ 571.110
Procedure for objections and hearings.
Objections and hearings relating to food additive regulations under section 409(c), (d), or (h) of the act shall be governed by part 12 of this chapter.
[42 FR 4717, Jan. 25, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 15676, Mar. 22, 1977]
§ 571.115
Application of the cancer clause of section 409 of the act.
Food additives intended for use as an ingredient in food for animals that are raised for food production and that have the potential to contaminate human food with residues whose consumption could present a risk of cancer to people must satisfy the requirements of subpart E of part 500 of this chapter.
[52 FR 49588, Dec. 31, 1987]
§ 571.130
Procedure for amending and repealing tolerances or exemptions from tolerances.
(a) The Commissioner, on his own initiative or on the petition of any interested person, pursuant to part 10 of this chapter, may propose the issuance of a regulation amending or repealing a regulation pertaining to a food additive or granting or repealing an exception for such additive.
(b) Any such petition shall include an assertion of facts, supported by data, showing that new information exists with respect to the food additive or that new uses have been developed or old uses abandoned, that new data are available as to toxicity of the chemical, or that experience with the existing regulation or exemption may justify its amendment or repeal. New data shall be furnished in the form specified in § 571.1 for submitting petitions.
[42 FR 4717, Jan. 25, 1977; 42 FR 15676, Mar. 22, 1977]
Pt. 573

# PART 573—FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Food Additive Listing
Sec.
573.120
Acrylamide-acrylic acid resin.
573.130
Aminoglycoside 3′-phospho- transferase II.
573.140
Ammoniated cottonseed meal.
573.160
Ammoniated rice hulls.
573.170
Ammonium formate.
573.180
Anhydrous ammonia.
573.200
Condensed animal protein hydrolysate.
573.210
Benzoic acid.
573.220
Feed-grade biuret.
573.225
1,3-Butylene glycol.
573.230
Calcium formate.
573.240
Calcium periodate.
573.260
Calcium silicate.
573.280
Feed-grade calcium stearate and sodium stearate.
573.300
Choline xanthate.
573.304
Chromium propionate.
573.310
Crambe meal, heat toasted.
573.320
Diammonium phosphate.
573.340
Diatomaceous earth.
573.360
Disodium EDTA.
573.380
Ethoxyquin in animal feeds.
573.400
Ethoxyquin in certain dehydrated forage crops.
573.420
Ethyl cellulose.
573.440
Ethylene dichloride.
573.450
Fermented ammoniated condensed whey.
573.460
Formaldehyde.
573.480
Formic acid.
573.485
Fumonisin esterase.
573.490
Gamma-linolenic acid safflower meal.
573.492
Gamma-linolenic acid safflower oil.
573.496
Guanidinoacetic acid.
573.500
Condensed, extracted glutamic acid fermentation product.
573.520
Hemicellulose extract.
573.530
Hydrogenated corn syrup.
573.540
Hydrolyzed leather meal.
573.550
25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
.
573.560
Iron ammonium citrate.
573.580
Iron-choline citrate complex.
573.587
Komagataella pastoris dried yeast.
573.600
Lignin sulfonates.
573.615
Marine microalgae.
573.620
Menadione dimethylpyrimidinol bisulfite.
573.625
Menadione nicotinamide bisulfite.
573.637
Methyl esters of conjugated linoleic acid (cis-9, trans-11 and trans-10, cis-12-octadecadienoic acids).
573.640
Methyl esters of higher fatty acids.
573.660
Methyl glucoside-coconut oil ester.
573.680
Mineral oil.
573.685
Natamycin.
573.696
Feed grade sodium formate.
573.700
Sodium nitrite.
573.720
Petrolatum.
573.740
Odorless light petroleum hydrocarbons.
573.760
Poloxalene.
573.780
Polyethylene.
573.800
Polyethylene glycol (400) mono- and dioleate.
573.820
Polyoxyethylene glycol (400) mono- and dioleates.
573.840
Polysorbate 60.
573.860
Polysorbate 80.
573.870
Poly(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene).
573.880
Normal propyl alcohol.
573.900
Pyrophyllite.
573.914
Salts of volatile fatty acids.
573.920
Selenium.
573.940
Silicon dioxide.
573.960
Sorbitan monostearate.
573.980
Taurine.
573.1000
Verxite.
573.1010
Xanthan gum.
573.1020
Yellow prussiate of soda.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 342, 348.

# Source:
41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Food Additive Listing
§ 573.120
Acrylamide-acrylic acid resin.
Acrylamide-acrylic acid resin (hydrolized polyacrylamide), only for the purposes of this section as described below, may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is produced by polymerization of acrylamide with partial hydrolysis, or by copolymerization of acrylamide and acrylic acid with the greater part of the polymer being composed of acrylamide units.
(b) The additive meets the following specifications:
(1) A minimum molecular weight of 3 million.
(2) Viscosity range: 3,000 to 6,000 centipoises at 77 °F in a 1 percent aqueous solution as determined by LVF Brookfield Viscometer or equivalent using a number 6 spindle at 20 r.p.m.
(3) Residual acrylamide: Not more than 0.05 percent.
(c) It is used as a thickener and suspending agent in nonmedicated aqueous suspensions intended for addition to animal feeds.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 38058, June 6, 1980]
§ 573.130
Aminoglycoside 3′-phospho- transferase II.
The food additive aminoglycoside 3′-phosphotransferase II may be safely used in the development of genetically modified cotton, oilseed rape, and tomatoes in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The food additive is the enzyme aminoglycoside 3′-phosphotransferase II (CAS Reg. No. 58943-39-8) which catalyzes the phosphorylation of certain aminoglycoside antibiotics, including kanamycin, neomycin, and gentamicin.
(b) Aminoglycoside 3′-phosphotransferase II is encoded by the
kan
r
gene originally isolated from transposon Tn
5
of the bacterium
Escherichia coli.
(c) The level of the additive does not exceed the amount reasonably required for selection of plant cells carrying the
kan
r
gene along with the genetic material of interest.
[59 FR 26711, May 23, 1994]
§ 573.140
Ammoniated cottonseed meal.
The food additive ammoniated cottonseed meal may be safely used in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The food additive is the product obtained by the treatment of cottonseed meal with anhydrous ammonia until a pressure of 50 pounds per square inch gauge is reached.
(b) It is used or intended for use in the feed of ruminants as a source of protein and/or as a source of nonprotein nitrogen in an amount not to exceed 20 percent of the total ration.
(c) To assure safe use, the label and labeling of the additive and of any feed additive supplement, concentrate, or premix prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, the following:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) The maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from the nonprotein nitrogen.
(3) Directions for use to provide not more than 20 percent of the additive in the total ration.
(4) A statement:
(i) That not more than one-third of the total protein in the feed should come from nonprotein nitrogen sources.
(ii) That the additive is not to be given to debilitated or starved animals.
(iii) “Warning—This feed should be used only in accordance with directions furnished on the label.”
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 52397, Sept. 30, 1977]
§ 573.160
Ammoniated rice hulls.
The food additive ammoniated rice hulls may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The food additive is the product obtained by the treatment of ground rice hulls with monocalcium phosphate and anhydrous ammonia at a temperature of 350 °F and a pressure of 175 pounds per square inch.
(b) It is used or intended for use in the feed of beef cattle as a source of crude fiber and as the sole source of nonprotein nitrogen in an amount not to exceed 20 percent of the total ration.
(c) To assure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the additive and of any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, or feed additive premix prepared therefrom, shall contain, in addition to other information required by the act, the following:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) The maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from the nonprotein nitrogen.
(3) Directions for use to provide not more than 20 percent of the additive in the total ration, and a prominent statement: “Warning—This feed should be used only in accordance with the directions furnished on the label.”
§ 573.170
Ammonium formate.
The food additive, ammonium formate, may be safely used in the manufacture of complete swine feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is manufactured by the reaction of 99.5 percent ammonia gas and 99 percent formic acid in a continuous loop reactor to produce a solution made up of 37 percent ammonium salt of formic acid and 62 percent formic acid.
(b) The additive is used or intended for use as a feed acidifying agent, to lower the pH, in complete swine feeds at levels not to exceed 1.2 percent of the complete feed.
(c) To ensure safe use of the additive, formic acid and formate salts from all added sources cannot exceed 1.2 percent of complete feed when multiple sources of formic acid and its salts are used in combination.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act), the label and labeling shall contain:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) Adequate directions for use including a statement that ammonium formate must be uniformly applied and thoroughly mixed into complete swine feeds and that the complete swine feeds so treated shall be labeled as containing ammonium formate.
(3) Cautions for use including this statement: Caution: Follow label directions. Formic acid and formate salts from all added sources cannot exceed 1.2 percent of complete feed when multiple sources of formic acid and its salts are used in combination.
(e) To ensure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and paragraph (d) of this section, the label and labeling shall contain:
(1) Appropriate warnings and safety precautions concerning ammonium formate (37 percent ammonium salt of formic acid and 62 percent formic acid).
(2) Statements identifying ammonium formate in formic acid (37 percent ammonium salt of formic acid and 62 percent formic acid) as a corrosive and possible severe irritant.
(3) Information about emergency aid in case of accidental exposure as follows:
(i) Statements reflecting requirements of applicable sections of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA), and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) human safety guidance regulations.
(ii) Contact address and telephone number for reporting adverse reactions or to request a copy of the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).
[75 FR 41725, July 19, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 42692, July 17, 2013; 82 FR 52209, Nov. 13, 2017]
§ 573.180
Anhydrous ammonia.
(a) The food additive anhydrous ammonia is applied directly to corn plant material and thoroughly blended prior to ensiling. It is used or intended for use as a source of nonprotein nitrogen in cattle feed in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) as follows:
(1)(i) The food additive anhydrous ammonia is applied as a component of an aqueous premix containing 16 to 17 percent ammonia, with molasses, minerals, and not less than 83 percent crude protein. The premix is a source of nonprotein nitrogen and minerals.
(ii) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the labeling shall bear an expiration date of not more than 10 weeks after date of manufacture; a statement that additional protein should not be fed to lactating dairy cows producing less than 32 pounds of milk per day nor beef cattle consuming less than 1 percent of body weight daily in shelled corn; and a warning not to use additional trace mineral supplementation with treated silage.
(2)(i) The food additive anhydrous ammonia is applied directly to corn plant material for use in dairy or beef cattle rations.
(ii) The anhydrous ammonia is applied at a rate not to exceed the equivalent of 0.35 percent of the corn plant material.
(iii) It is applied to corn plant material containing 30 to 35 percent dry matter.
(iv) It is applied so that 75 to 85 percent of the additive is liquid at ambient pressure.
(3)(i) The food additive anhydrous ammonia is applied after being diluted to a 15 to 30 percent aqueous ammonia solution (by weight).
(ii) The anhydrous ammonia solution is applied at a rate not to exceed anhydrous ammonia equivalent to 0.3 percent of the corn plant material.
(iii) It is applied to corn plant material containing 28 to 38 percent dry matter.
(iv) The silage treated with aqueous ammonia is to be fed to dairy cattle only.
(b) Its labeling shall bear, in addition to the other requirements of the act, the name of the additive, the concentration of ammonia, the maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from nonprotein nitrogen, and directions for use consistent with this section.
[44 FR 40284, July 10, 1979]
§ 573.200
Condensed animal protein hydrolysate.
(a)
Identity.
The condensed animal protein hydrolysate is produced from the meat byproducts scraped from cured (salted) hides taken from cattle slaughtered for food consumption. The meat byproduct is hydrolyzed with heat and phosphoric acid.
(b)
Specifications.
The additive shall conform to the following percent-by-weight specifications:
Moisture, not less than 45 percent nor more than 50 percent.
Protein, not less than 24 percent.
Salt (NaCl), not more than 15 percent.
Phosphorus, not less than 2.25 percent.
(c)
Uses.
It is used or intended for use as a source of animal protein, phosphorus, and salt (NaCl) as follows:
(1) In poultry and swine feed in an amount not to exceed 5 percent by weight of the feed.
(2) In feed concentrates for cattle in an amount not to exceed 10 percent by weight of the concentrate.
(d)
Labeling.
The label and labeling shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act:
(1) The name of the additive, condensed animal protein hydrolysate.
(2) Adequate directions for use including maximum quantities permitted for each species and a guaranteed analysis of the additive.
§ 573.210
Benzoic acid.
The food additive, benzoic acid, may be safely used in the manufacture of complete swine feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is used or intended for use as a feed acidifying agent, to lower the pH, in complete swine feeds at levels not to exceed 0.5 percent of the complete feed.
(b) The additive consists of not less than 99.5 percent benzoic acid (CAS 65-85-0) by weight with the sum of 2-methylbiphenyl, 3-methylbiphenyl, 4-methylbiphenyl, benzyl benzoate, and isomers of dimethylbiphenyl not to exceed 0.01 percent by weight.
(c) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and paragraph (b) of this section, the label and labeling shall contain:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) Adequate directions for use including a statement that benzoic acid must be uniformly applied and thoroughly mixed into complete swine feeds and that the complete swine feeds so treated shall be labeled as containing benzoic acid.
(3) Appropriate warnings and safety precautions concerning benzoic acid.
(4) A warning statement identifying benzoic acid as a possible irritant.
(5) Information about emergency aid in case of accidental exposure.
(6) Contact address and telephone number for reporting adverse reactions or to request a copy of the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).
[79 FR 14176, Mar. 13, 2014]
§ 573.220
Feed-grade biuret.
The food additive feed grade biuret may be safely used in ruminant feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The food additive is the product resulting from the controlled pyrolysis of urea conforming to the following specifications:
Percent
Biuret
55 minimum.
Urea
15 maximum.
Cyanuric acid and triuret
30 maximum.
Mineral oil
0.5 maximum.
Total nitrogen (equivalent to 218.75 pct crude protein)
35 minimum.
(b) It is used in ruminant feeds as a source of nonprotein nitrogen.
(c) To assure safe use of the additive:
(1) The label and labeling of the additive and that of any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall contain, in addition to other information required by the act, the following:
(i) The name of the additive.
(ii) The maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from nonprotein nitrogen.
(2) The label shall recommend that the diet be balanced to provide adequate nutrients when equivalent crude protein from all forms of nonprotein nitrogen exceed one-third of the total crude protein in the total daily ration.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 68 FR 27904, May 22, 2003]
§ 573.225
1,3-Butylene glycol.
The food additive 1,3-butylene glycol (1,3-butanediol) may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) It complies with the specifications in § 173.220(a) of this chapter.
(b) It is intended for use in swine feed as a source of energy.
(c) It is to be thoroughly mixed into feed at levels not to exceed 9 percent of the dry matter of the total ration.
(d) 1,3-Butylene glycol should be mixed in feed with equipment adapted for the addition of liquids, and the feed should be mixed not less than 5 minutes after its addition.
[53 FR 40061, Oct. 13, 1988]
§ 573.230
Calcium formate.
The food additive calcium formate may be safely used in the manufacture of complete swine and poultry feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is manufactured by the reaction of butyraldehyde, formaldehyde, calcium hydroxide, and formic acid in water followed by purification and dried to produce a powder consisting of not less than 99.0 percent
calcium formate (CAS 544-17-2). The additive meets the following specifications:
(1) The additive consists of minimum 30.5 percent calcium and minimum 68.5 percent formate.
(2) Trimethylolpropane (TMP) not to exceed 125 parts per million.
(b) The additive is used or intended for use as a feed acidifying agent, to lower the pH, in complete swine or poultry feeds at levels not to exceed 1.2 percent of the complete feed.
(c) To ensure safe use of the additive, formic acid and formate salts from all added sources cannot exceed 1.2 percent of complete feed when multiple sources of formic acid and its salts are used in combination.
(d) To ensure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling shall contain:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) Adequate directions for use including a statement that calcium formate must be uniformly applied and thoroughly mixed into complete feeds and that the complete feeds so treated shall be labeled as containing calcium formate.
(3) Cautions for use including this statement: Caution: Follow label directions. Formic acid and formate salts from all added sources cannot exceed 1.2 percent of complete feed when multiple sources of formic acid and its salts are used in combination.
(e) To ensure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act and paragraph (d) of this section, the label and labeling shall contain:
(1) Appropriate warnings and safety precautions concerning calcium formate.
(2) Statements identifying calcium formate as a possible severe irritant.
(3) Information about emergency aid in case of accidental exposure as follows.
(i) Statements reflecting requirements of applicable sections of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) human safety guidance regulations.
(ii) Contact address and telephone number for reporting adverse reactions or to request a copy of the Safety Data Sheet (SDS).
[88 FR 87671, Dec. 19, 2023]
§ 573.240
Calcium periodate.
The food additive calcium periodate may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is produced by reacting calcium iodate with calcium hydroxide or calcium oxide to form a substance consisting of not less than 60 percent by weight of penta calcium orthoperiodate containing 28 to 31 percent by weight of iodine.
(b) It is used or intended for use in salt for livestock as a source of iodine.
§ 573.260
Calcium silicate.
Calcium silicate, including synthetic calcium silicate, may be safely used as an anticaking agent in animal feed, provided that the amount of calcium silicate does not exceed 2 percent.
§ 573.280
Feed-grade calcium stearate and sodium stearate.
Feed-grade calcium stearate and sodium stearate may be safely used in an animal feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) Feed-grade calcium stearate and sodium stearate are the calcium or sodium salts of a fatty acid mixture that is predominately stearic acid. Associated fatty acids, including palmitic acid and minor amounts of lauric, myristic, pentadecanoic, margaric, arachidic, and other fatty acids may be contained in the mixture, but such associated fatty acids in aggregate do not exceed 35 percent by weight of the mixture. The fatty acids may be derived from feed-grade fats or oils.
(b) The additives meet the following specifications:
(1) Unsaponifiable matter does not exceed 2 percent.
(2) They are free of chick-edema factor.
(c) The additives are manufactured so that in aqueous solution they are exposed for 1 hour or longer to temperature in excess of 180 °F.
(d) They are used as anticaking agents in animal feeds in accordance
with current good manufacturing practices.
[63 FR 8573, Feb. 20, 1998]
§ 573.300
Choline xanthate.
Choline xanthate may be safely used as a component of animal feed as an added source of choline to supplement the diets of poultry, ruminants, and swine in accordance with good feeding practice.
§ 573.304
Chromium propionate.
The food additive chromium propionate may be safely used in animal feed as a source of supplemental chromium in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is manufactured by the reaction of a chromium salt with propionic acid, at an appropriate stoichiometric ratio, to produce triaqua-(mu
3
-oxo) hexakis (mu
2
-propionato-
O,O
′) trichromium propionate with the empirical formula, [Cr
3
(O)(CH
3
CH
2
CO
2
)
6
(H
2
O)
3
]CH
3
CH
2
CO
2
.
(b) The additive is added to feed as follows:
(1) In complete feed for broiler chickens and growing turkeys at a level not to exceed 0.2 milligrams (mg) of chromium from chromium propionate per kilogram feed.
(2) In feed for horses at a level not to exceed an intake of 4 mg of chromium from chromium propionate per horse per day.
(c) The additive meets the following specifications:
(1) Total chromium content, 8 to 10 percent.
(2) Hexavalent chromium content, less than 2 parts per million (ppm).
(3) Arsenic, less than 1 ppm.
(4) Cadmium, less than 1 ppm.
(5) Lead, less than 0.5 ppm.
(6) Mercury, less than 0.5 ppm.
(7) Viscosity, not more than 2,000 centipoise.
(d) The additive shall be incorporated into feed as follows:
(1) It shall be incorporated into each ton of feed by adding no less than one pound of a premix containing no more than 181.4 milligrams of added chromium from chromium propionate per pound.
(2) The premix manufacturer shall follow good manufacturing practices in the production of chromium propionate premixes. Inventory, production, and distribution records must provide a complete and accurate history of product production.
(3) Chromium from all sources of supplemental chromium cannot exceed:
(i) A level of 0.2 ppm in complete feed for broiler chickens and growing turkeys.
(ii) An intake of 4 mg per horse per day.
(e) To assure safe use of the additive in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act:
(1) The label and labeling of the additive, any feed premix, and feed shall contain the name of the additive.
(2) The label and labeling of the additive and any feed premix shall also contain:
(i) A guarantee for added chromium content.
(ii) Adequate directions for use and cautions for use including these statements: “Caution: Follow label directions” and consistent with the directions for use, the following:
(A) For feed for broiler chickens and growing turkeys, “Chromium from all sources of supplemental chromium cannot exceed 0.2 parts per million of the complete feed.”
(B) For feed for horses, “Chromium from all sources of supplemental chromium cannot exceed 4 milligrams per horse per day.”
[81 FR 35611, June 3, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 14566, Mar. 13, 2020; 85 FR 48650, Aug. 12, 2020; 89 FR 5768, Jan. 30, 2024]
§ 573.310
Crambe meal, heat toasted.
(a) The additive is the seed meal of
Crambe abyssinica
obtained after the removal of oil from the seed and hull. The oil may be removed by pre-press solvent extraction or by solvent extraction alone. The resulting seed meal is heat toasted.
(b) The additive conforms to the following percent-by-weight specifications: moisture, not more than 11 percent; oil, not more than 4 percent; crude protein, not less than 24 percent; crude fiber, not more than 26 percent; glucosinolate calculated as epi-progoitrin, not more than 4 percent; goitrin, not more than 0.1 percent;
nitrile calculated as 1-cyano-2-hydroxy-3-butene, not more than 1.4 percent. At least 50 percent of the nitrogen shall be soluble in 0.5
M
sodium chloride. Myrosinase enzyme activity shall be absent.
(c) The additive is used or intended for use in the feed of feedlot cattle as a source of protein in an amount not to exceed 4.2 percent of the total ration.
[46 FR 30082, June 5, 1981]
§ 573.320
Diammonium phosphate.
The food additive diammonium phosphate may be safely used in ruminant feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The food additive is the product resulting from the neutralization of feeding-phosphoric-acid or defluorinated wet-process phosphoric acid with anhydrous ammonia. It contains not less than 106.25 percent equivalent crude protein (nitrogen × 6.25) and 20 percent phosphorus. It contains not more than the following:
1 part fluorine to 100 parts phosphorus.
75 parts per million or arsenic (as As).
30 parts per million of heavy metals, as lead (Pb).
(b) It is used in ruminant feeds as a source of phosphorus and nitrogen in an amount that supplies not more than 2 percent of equivalent crude protein in the total daily ration.
(c) To assure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the additive and that of any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall contain, in addition to other information required by the act, the following:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) The maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from the nonprotein nitrogen.
(3) If the feed additive premix, feed additive concentrate, or feed additive supplement contains more than 2 percent equivalent crude protein from diammonium phosphate, adequate directions for use and a prominent statement, “Warning—This feed should be used only in accordance with directions furnished on the label.”
§ 573.340
Diatomaceous earth.
(a)
Identity.
The additive consists of siliceous skeletal material derived from various species of diatoms.
(b)
Specifications.
The additive shall conform to the following specifications:
Lead, not more than 15 parts per million.
Arsenic (as As), not more than 20 parts per million
Fluorine, not more than 600 parts per million.
(c)
Uses.
It is used or intended for use as an inert carrier or anticaking agent in animal feeds in an amount not to exceed 2 percent by weight of the total ration.
§ 573.360
Disodium EDTA.
The food additive disodium EDTA (disodium ethylenediaminetetraace- tate) may be safely used in animal feeds, in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The food additive contains a minimum of 99 percent disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate dihydrate (C
10
H
14
O
8
N
2
Na
2
· 2H
2
O).
(b) It is used to solubilize trace minerals in aqueous solutions, which are then added to animal feeds.
(c) It is used or intended for use in an amount not to exceed 240 parts per million of the additive in finished feed.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive the label and labeling shall bear:
(1) The name of the additive; and
(2) Adequate mixing directions to ensure that the chelated trace-mineral mix is uniformly blended throughout the feed.
§ 573.380
Ethoxyquin in animal feeds.
Ethoxyquin (1,2-dihydro-6-ethoxy-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline) may be safely used in animal feeds, when incorporated therein in accordance with the following prescribed conditions.
(a) It is intended for use only: (1) As a chemical preservative for retarding oxidation of carotene, xanthophylls, and vitamins A and E in animal feed and fish food and, (2) as an aid in preventing the development of organic peroxides in canned pet food.
(b) The maximum quantity of the additive permitted to be used and to remain in or on the treated article shall not exceed 150 parts per million.
(c) To assure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the food additive container and that of any intermediate premixes prepared therefrom shall contain, in addition to other information required by the act:
(1) The name of the additive, ethoxyquin.
(2) A statement of the concentration or strength contained therein.
(3) Adequate use directions to provide for a finished article with the proper concentration of the additive as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, whether or not intermediate premixes are to be used.
(d) The label of any animal feed containing the additive shall, in addition to the other information required by the act, bear the statement “Ethoxyquin, a preservative” or “Ethoxyquin added to retard the oxidative destruction of carotene, xanthophylls, and vitamins A and E.”
§ 573.400
Ethoxyquin in certain dehydrated forage crops.
Ethoxyquin (1,2-dihydro-6-ethoxy-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline) may be safely used in the dehydrated forage crops listed in paragraph (a) of this section when incorporated therein in accordance with the conditions prescribed in this section:
(a) It may be added to dehydrated forage prepared from:
Alfalfa
Medicago sativa.
Barley
Hordeum vulgare.
Clovers:
Alsike clover
Trifolium hybridum.
Crimson clover
Trifolium incarnatum.
Red clover
Trifolium pratense.
White clover (including Ladino)
Trifolium repens.
White sweetclover
Melilotus alba.
Yellow sweetclover
Melilotus officinalis.
Coastal Bermudagrass
Cynodon dactylon.
Corn
Zea mays.
Fescue
Festuca sp.
Oats
Avena sativa.
Orchardgrass
Dactylis glomerata.
Reed canarygrass
Pharlaris arundinacea.
Ryegrass (annual and perennial)
Elymus sp. and Lolium perenne.
Sorghums
Sorghum vulgare vars, feterita, shallu, kaoliang, broomcorn.
Sudan grass
Sorghum vulgare sudanense.
Wheat
Triticum aestivum.
or any mixture of such forage crops, for use only as an animal feed.
(b) Such additive is used only as a chemical preservative for the purpose of retarding oxidative destruction of naturally occurring carotenes and vitamin E in the forage crops.
(c) It is added to the dehydrated forage crops in an oil mixture containing only suitable animal or suitable vegetable oil, prior to grinding and mixing.
(d) The maximum quantity of the additive permitted to be used and to remain in or on the dehydrated forage crop shall not exceed 150 parts per million.
(e) To assure the safe use of the additive, the label of the market package shall contain, in addition to other information required by the act:
(1) The name of the additive as specified in this section.
(2) Directions for the incorporation of the additive in the forage crops, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, with the directive that only suitable animal or suitable vegetable oils are to be used in the oil mix.
(f) The label of any dehydrated forage crops treated with the additive or the label of an animal-feed supplement containing such treated forage crops, shall, in addition to other information required by the act, bear the following statements:
(1) “Ethoxyquin, a preservative,” or “Ethoxyquin added to retard the oxidative destruction of carotene and vitamin E.”
(2) The statement “For use in animal feed only.”
§ 573.420
Ethyl cellulose.
The food additive ethyl cellulose may be safely used in animal feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The food additive is a cellulose ether containing ethoxy (OC
2
H
5
) groups attached by an ether linkage and containing on an anhydrous basis not more than 2.6 ethoxy groups per anhydroglucose unit.
(b) It is used or intended for use:
(1) As a binder or filler in dry vitamin preparations to be incorporated into animal feed.
(2) As a matrix scaffolding for tracers, and the ethyl cellulose content
shall not exceed 80 percent of the tracer.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 89 FR 48508, June 7, 2024]
§ 573.440
Ethylene dichloride.
The food additive ethylene dichloride may be safely used in the manufacture of animal feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) It is used as a solvent in the extraction processing of animal byproducts for use in animal feeds.
(b) The maximum quantity of the additive permitted to remain in or on the extracted byproducts shall not exceed 300 parts per million.
(c) The extracted animal byproduct is added as a source of protein to a total ration at levels consistent with good feeding practices, but in no event at levels exceeding 13 percent of the total ration.
§ 573.450
Fermented ammoniated condensed whey.
(a)
Identity.
The product is produced by the
Lactobacillus delbrueckii
fermentation of whey with the addition of ammonia.
(b)
Specifications.
The product contains 35 to 55 percent crude protein and not more than 42 percent equivalent crude protein from nonprotein nitrogen sources.
(c)
Uses.
The product is used as a source of protein and nonprotein nitrogen for cattle.
(d)
Limitations.
(1) Store in a closed vented tank equipped for agitation. Agitate 5 minutes before using. Do not store at temperature above 110 °F (43 °C).
(2) The maximum level of use of fermented ammoniated condensed whey and equivalent crude protein from all other added forms of nonprotein nitrogen shall not exceed 30 percent of the dietary crude protein.
(3) The additive may be used as follows:
(i) Mixed with grain, roughage, or grain and roughage prior to feeding.
(ii) As a component of free-choice liquid feeds, used to supplement the diets of cattle fed other sources of nutrients, fermented ammoniated condensed whey shall not exceed 80 percent of the free-choice liquid feed.
(e)
Labeling.
The label shall bear, in addition to other information required by the act:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) The maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from nonprotein nitrogen.
(3) Adequate directions for use in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (d) of this section.
[43 FR 33708, July 1, 1978, as amended at 46 FR 49115, Oct. 6, 1981; 89 FR 67856, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 573.460
Formaldehyde.
The food additive formaldehyde may be safely used in the manufacture of animal feeds in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The additive is used, or intended for use, to improve the handling characteristics of fat by producing a dry, free-flowing product, as follows:
(1) For animal fat in combination with certain oilseed meals, as a component of dry, nonpelletted feeds for beef and nonlactating dairy cattle.
(i) An aqueous blend of soybean and sunflower meals in a ratio of 3:1, respectively, is mixed with animal fat such that the oilseed meals and animal fat are in a ratio of 3:2. The feed ingredients are those defined by the “Official Publication” of the Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc., 2003 ed., pp. 303, 308, and 309, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the Assistant Secretary-Treasurer, Association of American Feed Control Officials Inc., P.O. Box 478, Oxford, IN 47971, or you may examine a copy at the Dockets Management Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(ii) Formaldehyde (37 percent solution) is added to the mixture at a level of 4 percent of the dry matter weight of
the oilseed meals and animal fat. This mixture, upon drying, contains not more than 1 percent formaldehyde and not more than 12 percent moisture.
(iii) To assure the safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act), the label and labeling of the dried mixture shall bear:
(A) The name of the additive.
(B) Adequate directions for use providing that the feed as consumed does not contain more than 25 percent of the mixture.
(2) For soybean and canola seeds and/or meals to which there may be added vegetable oil as a component of dry, nonpelleted feeds for beef and dairy cattle, including lactating dairy cattle.
(i) An aqueous blend of oilseed and/or meals, with or without added vegetable oil, in a ratio such that, on a dry matter basis, the final protein level will be 25 to 35 percent and the fat content will be 20 to 45 percent. The feed ingredients are those defined by the “Official Publication” of the Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc., 2003 ed., pp. 301, 307, 308, and 309, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the Assistant Secretary-Treasurer, Association of American Feed Control Officials Inc., P.O. Box 478, Oxford, IN 47971, or you may examine a copy at the Dockets Management Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(ii) Formaldehyde (37 percent solution) is added to the mixture at a level of 2.7 percent of the dry matter weight basis of the oilseeds and/or meals and the vegetable oil. This mixture, upon drying, contains not more than 0.5 percent formaldehyde and not more than 12 percent moisture.
(iii) To assure the safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act, the label and labeling of the dried mixture shall bear:
(A) The name of the additive.
(B) The statement, “This supplement is not to exceed 12.5% of the total ration. Dietary calcium and magnesium levels should be considered when supplementing the diet with fat.”
(C) The minimum and maximum levels of crude fat must be guaranteed and must be between −5 percent and +5 percent of the analyzed fat content for each batch.
(b)(1) The food additive is formaldehyde (CAS No. 50-00-0; 37 percent aqueous solution). It is used at a rate of 5.4 pounds (2.5 kilograms) per ton of animal feed or feed ingredient. It is an antimicrobial agent used to maintain complete animal feeds or feed ingredients
Salmonella
negative for up to 21 days.
(2) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Act, the label and labeling shall contain:
(i) The name of the additive.
(ii) A statement that formaldehyde solution which has been stored below 40 °F or allowed to freeze should not be applied to complete animal feeds or feed ingredients.
(iii) Adequate directions for use including a statement that formaldehyde should be uniformly sprayed on and thoroughly mixed into the complete animal feeds or feed ingredients and that the complete animal feeds or feed ingredients so treated shall be labeled as containing formaldehyde. The label must prominently display the statement: “Treated with formaldehyde to maintain feed
Salmonella
negative. Use within 21 days.”
(iv) The labeling for feed or feed ingredients to which formaldehyde has been added under the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section is required to carry the following statement: “Treated with formaldehyde to maintain feed
Salmonella
negative. Use within 21 days.”
(3) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Act, the label and labeling shall contain:
(i) Appropriate warnings and safety precautions concerning formaldehyde.
(ii) Statements identifying formaldehyde as a poison with potentials for adverse respiratory effects.
(iii) Information about emergency aid in case of accidental inhalation.
(iv) Statements reflecting requirements of applicable sections of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA), and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) human safety guidance regulations.
(v) Contact address and phone number for reporting adverse reactions or to request a copy of the Materials Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 54 FR 18281, Apr. 28, 1989; 61 FR 15704, Apr. 9, 1996; 63 FR 53580, Oct. 6, 1998; 68 FR 65633, Nov. 21, 2003; 88 FR 45066, July 14, 2023]
§ 573.480
Formic acid.
The food additive, formic acid, may be safely used in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The additive is used as a preservative in hay crop silage in an amount not to exceed 2.25 percent of the silage on a dry weight basis or 0.45 percent when direct cut, as follows:
(1) The top foot of silage stored should not contain formic acid and
(2) Silage should not be fed to livestock within 4 weeks of treatment.
(b) The additive is used or intended for use as a feed acidifying agent, to lower the pH, in complete feed for swine and poultry at levels not to exceed 1.2 percent of the complete feed.
(1) The additive consists of not less than 85 percent formic acid (CAS 64-18-6).
(2) The additive meets the following specifications:
(i) Free methyl alcohol not to exceed 1,000 parts per million (ppm);
(ii) Methyl formate not to exceed 1,000 ppm; and
(iii) Moisture not to exceed 15 percent.
(3) To ensure safe use of the additive, formic acid and formate salts from all added sources cannot exceed 1.2 percent of complete feed when multiple sources of formic acid and its salts are used in combination.
(4) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling shall contain:
(i) The name of the additive.
(ii) Adequate directions for use including a statement that formic acid must be uniformly applied and thoroughly mixed into complete feeds and that the complete feeds so treated shall be labeled as containing formic acid.
(iii) Cautions for use including this statement: Caution: Follow label directions. Formic acid and formate salts from all added sources cannot exceed 1.2 percent of complete feed when multiple sources of formic acid and its salts are used in combination.
(5) To ensure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the label and labeling shall contain:
(i) Appropriate warnings and safety precautions concerning formic acid (85 percent formic acid).
(ii) Statements identifying formic acid (85 percent formic acid) as a corrosive and possible severe irritant.
(iii) Information about emergency aid in case of accidental exposure.
(A) Statements reflecting requirements of applicable sections of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA), and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) human safety guidance regulations.
(B) Contact address and telephone number for reporting adverse reactions or to request a copy of the Safety Data Sheet (SDS).
[76 FR 7106, Feb. 9, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 52209, Nov. 13, 2017; 83 FR 20, Jan. 2, 2018; 83 FR 66618, Dec. 27, 2018]
§ 573.485
Fumonisin esterase.
The food additive fumonisin esterase may be safely used to degrade fumonisins in swine and poultry feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) Fumonisin esterase, a carboxylesterase, is produced by a nontoxigenic and nonpathogenic yeast,
Komagataella phaffii,
genetically engineered to express the fumonisin esterase gene from the bacterium
Sphingopyxis
sp. Hydrolyzed fumonisin and two tricarballylic acid molecules are the reaction products of fumonisin hydrolysis by this 493 amino acid fumonisin esterase enzyme.
(b) The additive shall meet the following specifications:
(1) The fermentation media for the
Komagataella phaffii
shall not contain methanol.
(2) Viable genetically engineered
Komagataella phaffii
shall not be present.
(3) One unit of fumonisin esterase activity is defined as the amount of enzymatic activity required to release one micromole of tricarballylic acid (CAS 99-14-9) per minute from 100 micromolar fumonisin B1 in 20 millimolar Tris-hydrochloride buffer (pH 8.0) containing 0.1 milligram per milliliter of bovine serum albumin at 30 °C.
(c) The additive is incorporated at a minimum of 15 units of fumonisin esterase activity per kilogram of complete feed:
(1) Complete swine feeds cannot contain more than 10 parts per million of total fumonisins.
(2) Complete feed for poultry being raised for slaughter cannot contain more than 50 parts per million of total fumonisins.
(3) Complete feed for breeding poultry and hens laying eggs for human consumption cannot contain more than 15 parts per million of total fumonisins.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act:
(1) The label and labeling of the additive, any feed premix, and complete feed shall contain the common or usual name of the additive's source, dried
Komagataella phaffii
fermentation product.
(2) The label and labeling of the additive and any feed premix shall also contain:
(i) Adequate directions for use including a statement that the additive must be uniformly applied and thoroughly mixed into complete feeds;
(ii) A guarantee for the minimum amount of fumonisin esterase activity, expressed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and the unit of weight being consistent with the inclusion rate stated in the directions for use;
(iii) Appropriate warning and safety precaution statements concerning the additive as a respiratory sensitizer;
(iv) A cautionary statement concerning the maximum fumonisin content as established in paragraph (c) of this section.
[87 FR 47344, Aug. 3, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 52682, Aug. 29, 2022]
§ 573.490
Gamma-linolenic acid safflower meal.
The food additive consists of the meal obtained after the removal of most of the oil from whole seeds or partially dehulled seeds or both obtained from a
Carthamus tinctorius
L. safflower Centennial variety genetically engineered to express the delta-6-desaturase gene from
Saprolegnia diclina
Humphrey. The 453 amino acid, delta-6-desaturase enzyme converts the fatty acid linoleic acid to gamma-linolenic acid during seed development. The resulting additive may be safely used in cattle and poultry feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive shall contain not less than 20 percent crude protein, not more than 40 percent crude fiber, not more than 10 percent moisture, and not more than 2 percent crude fat.
(b) The crude fat in the additive meets the following specifications:
(1) Gamma-linolenic acid content not to exceed 55 percent.
(2) Total content of stearidonic acid and cis, cis-6, 9-octadecadienoic acid not to exceed a total of 0.5 percent.
(3) Total content of palmitic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, and other associated fatty acids to exceed a total of 40 percent.
(c) The additive is used or intended for use in cattle and poultry feeds as a source of protein in accordance with good manufacturing and feeding practices.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling of the additive, any feed premix, or complete feed shall bear the following:
(1) The name of the additive or the common name, safflower meal.
(2) Adequate directions for use in cattle and poultry feeds.
(e) The additive may be identified by the common or usual name, safflower meal.
[80 FR 35569, June 22, 2015]
§ 573.492
Gamma-linolenic acid safflower oil.
The food additive, gamma-linolenic acid safflower oil, may be safely used in animal food as a source of gamma-linolenic acid and other omega-6 fatty acids in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The additive is the oil obtained from whole seeds and/or partially dehulled seeds of a
Carthamus tinctorius
L. safflower Centennial variety genetically engineered to express the delta-6-desaturase gene from
Saprolegnia diclina
Humphrey. The 453 amino acid, delta-6-desaturase enzyme converts the fatty acid linoleic acid to gamma-linolenic acid (all-
cis
-6,9,12-octadecatrienoic acid) during seed development.
(1) The additive obtained from the seeds of the genetically engineered safflower Centennial variety may be blended with oil obtained from seeds of non-engineered oleic acid safflower varieties in order to meet the specifications required for the additive or the blend in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) The additive or a safflower oil blend containing the additive for use in animal food meets the following specifications:
(i) Crude fat content of the additive or the safflower oil blend is not less than 99.5 percent.
(ii) Gamma-linolenic acid content is between 350 and 450 milligrams (mg) gamma-linolenic acid per gram of the additive or the safflower oil blend.
(iii) Total content of stearidonic acid and
cis, cis
-6,9-octadecadienoic acid in the additive or the safflower oil blend must not exceed a total of 0.3 percent.
(b) Addition of the additive, or the safflower oil blend, to complete dry adult maintenance dog food must meet the following:
(1) Addition of the additive or the safflower oil blend cannot provide more than 36 mg gamma-linolenic acid per kilogram body weight of the dog per day in more than 86 mg of the additive or the safflower oil blend. This maximum addition rate of the additive, or the safflower oil blend, is 0.3 percent of a complete dry adult maintenance dog food containing 3,600 kilocalories of metabolizable energy per kilogram of food as-fed.
(2) Adjustments must be made for differing concentrations of gamma-linolenic acid and for dog food formulas of different caloric density and/or that are fed to specific weights, breeds, or dogs of different activity levels to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(c) Addition of the additive, or the safflower oil blend, to complete dry adult maintenance cat food must meet the following:
(1) Addition of the additive or the safflower oil blend cannot provide more than 33 mg gamma-linolenic acid per kilogram body weight of the cat per day in more than 79 mg of the additive or the safflower oil blend. This maximum addition rate of the additive, or the safflower oil blend, is 0.5 percent of a complete dry adult maintenance cat food containing 4,000 kilocalories of metabolizable energy per kilogram of food as-fed.
(2) Adjustments must be made for differing concentrations of gamma-linolenic acid and for cat food formulas of different caloric density and/or that are fed to specific weights, breeds, or cats of different activity levels to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling of the additive shall bear the following:
(1) The name of the additive, gamma-linolenic acid safflower oil, or GLA safflower oil;
(2) A guarantee for the minimum content of gamma-linolenic acid; and
(3) Adequate directions for use such that the finished animal food complies
with the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
[84 FR 6675, Feb. 28, 2019]
§ 573.496
Guanidinoacetic acid.
The food additive, guanidinoacetic acid, may be safely used in poultry feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is manufactured by reacting glycine with cyanamide in an aqueous solution.
(b) The additive is used or intended for use at levels not to exceed 0.12 percent of the complete feed:
(1) To spare arginine in broiler chicken and turkey feeds; or
(2) As a precursor of creatine in poultry feeds.
(c) The additive consists of not less than 97 percent guanidinoacetic acid [
N
-(aminoiminomethyl)-glycine] (CAS 352-97-6) by weight.
(d) The additive meets the following specifications:
(1) Dicyandiamide not to exceed 0.5 percent;
(2) Cyanamide not to exceed 0.01 percent;
(3) Melamine not to exceed 15 parts per million (ppm);
(4) Sum of ammeline, ammelide, and cyanuric acid not to exceed 35 ppm; and
(5) Water not to exceed 1 percent.
(e) To assure safe use of the additive in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act:
(1) The label and labeling of the additive, any feed premix, and complete feed shall contain the name of the additive.
(2) The label and labeling of the additive and any feed premix shall also contain:
(i) A statement to indicate the maximum use level of guanidinoacetic acid must not exceed 0.12 percent of the complete feed for poultry; and
(ii) Adequate directions for use.
[81 FR 86269, Nov. 30, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 37038, July 14, 2021]
§ 573.500
Condensed, extracted glutamic acid fermentation product.
Condensed, extracted glutamic acid fermentation product may be safely used in animal feed under the following conditions:
(a) The additive is a concentrated mixture of the liquor remaining from the extraction of glutamic acid, combined with the cells of
Corynebacterium glutamicum
used to produce the glutamic acid.
(b) It is used or intended for use as follows:
(1) In poultry feed as a source of protein in an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the total ration.
(2) In cattle feed as a source of protein in an amount not to exceed 10 percent of the feed.
(c) In order to assure safe use, the label and labeling of the additive shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act, the following:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) A statement of the concentration of the additive contained in any mixture.
(3) Adequate directions for use.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 89 FR 33231, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 573.520
Hemicellulose extract.
Hemicellulose extract may be safely used in animal feed when incorporated therein in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The additive is produced from the aqueous extract obtained by the treatment of wood with water at elevated temperatures (325 degrees-535 degrees F) and pressure (80 to 900 pounds per square inch) and contains primarily pentose and hexose sugars.
(b) The additive may be used in a liquid or dry state with the liquid product containing not less than 55 percent carbohydrate and the dry product containing not less than 84 percent carbohydrate.
(c) The additive is used as a source of metabolizable energy in animal feed in accordance with good manufacturing and feeding practices.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 11181, Mar. 17, 1978]
§ 573.530
Hydrogenated corn syrup.
(a)
Identity.
The product is produced by hydrogenation of corn syrup over a nickel catalyst.
(b)
Specifications.
The product contains 70 percent hydrogenated corn syrup and a maximum of 0.5 percent reducing sugars.
(c)
Uses.
The product is used as a humectant and plasticizer in preparation of soft-moist dog and cat foods.
(d)
Limitations.
The product is preferably stored in a closed, stainless steel or aluminum container. The level of use of the product shall not exceed 15 percent of the total weight of the pet food formulation.
(e)
Labeling.
The labeling shall bear, in addition to other information required by the Act:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) Adequate directions for use in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (d) of this section.
[45 FR 22920, Apr. 4, 1980]
§ 573.540
Hydrolyzed leather meal.
(a)
Identity.
Hydrolyzed leather meal is produced from leather scraps that are treated with steam for not less than 33 minutes at a pressure of not less than 125 pounds per square inch.
(b)
Specifications.
The additive shall conform to the following percent-by-weight specifications:
Moisture, not less than 5 percent nor more than 10 percent.
Crude protein, not less than 60 percent.
Crude fat, not less than 5 percent.
Crude fiber, not more than 6 percent.
Chromium, not more than 2.75 percent.
(c)
Use.
It is used or intended for use as a source of protein in swine feeds in an amount not to exceed 1.0 percent by weight of the finished feed.
(d)
Labeling.
The labels and labeling shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act:
(1) The name of the additive, hydrolyzed leather meal.
(2) Adequate directions to provide finished feeds complying with paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 573.550
25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
.
The food additive, 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
, may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is used or intended for use as a source of vitamin D
3
activity in animal feed or drinking water in accordance with good manufacturing and feeding practices as follows:
(1) In feed or drinking water of layer and breeder chickens not to exceed 69 parts per billion (ppb) in feed or 34.5 ppb in drinking water.
(2) In feed or drinking water of turkeys not to exceed:
(i) 92 ppb in feed; or
(ii) In drinking water, 25 ppb for turkeys up to 3 weeks of age, 36 ppb for turkeys from 4 to 11 weeks of age, or 45 ppb for turkeys over 11 weeks of age.
(b) The additive consists of not less than 94 percent 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
(9,10-secocholesta-5,7,10(19)-triene-3β, 25-diol).
(c) The additive meets the following specifications:
(1) Not more than 1 percent of any individual sterol.
(2) Not more than 5 percent water.
(3) Not more than 20 parts per million (ppm) lead.
(4) Not more than 20 ppm aluminum.
(5) Not more than 1.0 percent solvents and non-detectable levels of 2′, 4′, 5′, 7′ tetraiodofluorescin.
(6) Not more than 1 ppb 1, 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling shall contain:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) A statement to indicate the maximum use level of 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
must not exceed 69 ppb in feed or 34.5 ppb in drinking water for layer and breeder chickens.
(3) A statement to indicate for turkeys the maximum use level of 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
must not exceed 92 ppb in feed; or in drinking water, 25 ppb for turkeys up to 3 weeks of age, 36 ppb for turkeys from 4 to 11 weeks of age, or 45 ppb for turkeys over 11 weeks of age.
(4) Adequate use directions to ensure that 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
(and all premixes) is uniformly blended throughout the feed or drinking water.
(5) An expiration date on all premix labeling.
(6) A statement on all premix labeling (feed and drinking water forms) that 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
cannot be
used simultaneously in both feed and water.
[83 FR 49486, Oct. 2, 2018]
§ 573.560
Iron ammonium citrate.
Iron ammonium citrate may be safely used in animal feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is the chemical green ferric ammonium citrate.
(b) The additive is used or intended for use as an anticaking agent in salt for animal consumption so that the level of iron ammonium citrate does not exceed 25 parts per million (0.0025 percent) in the finished salt.
(c) To assure safe use of the additive the label or labeling of the additive shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) Adequate directions to provide a final product that complies with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 573.580
Iron-choline citrate complex.
Iron-choline citrate complex made by reacting approximately equimolecular quantities of ferric hydroxide, choline, and citric acid may be safely used as a source of iron in animal feed.
§ 573.587
Komagataella pastoris dried yeast.
(a)
Identity.
The food additive
Komagataella pastoris
dried yeast is non-viable and may be used in feed formulations of broiler chickens as a source of protein not to exceed 10 percent by weight of the total formulation.
(b)
Specifications.
The additive shall conform to the following percent-by-weight specifications:
(1) Crude protein, not less than 60 percent.
(2) Crude fat, not less than 2 percent.
(3) Crude fiber, not more than 2 percent.
(4) Ash, not more than 13 percent.
(5) Moisture, not more than 6 percent.
(c)
Use.
To ensure safe use, the labeling of the additive and any feed additive supplement, concentrate, or premix prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to other required information, the name of the additive, directions for use to provide not more than 10 percent by weight of the total ration, and the statement “Caution: Not to be used in layers or other poultry intended for breeding.”
[58 FR 59170, Nov. 8, 1993. Redesignated and amended at 89 FR 72315, Sept. 5, 2024]
§ 573.600
Lignin sulfonates.
Lignin sulfonates may be safely used in animal feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) For the purpose of this section, the food additive is either one, or a combination of, the ammonium, calcium, magnesium, or sodium salts of the extract of spent sulfite liquor derived from the sulfite digestion of wood or of abaca (
Musa textilis
) or of sisal (
Agave sisalana
) in either a liquid form (moisture not to exceed 50 percent by weight) or dry form (moisture not to exceed 6 percent by weight).
(b) It is used or intended for use in an amount calculated on a dry weight basis, as follows:
(1) As a pelleting aid in the liquid or dry form in an amount not to exceed 4 percent of the finished pellets.
(2) As a binding aid in the liquid form in the flaking of feed grains in an amount not to exceed 4 percent of the flaked grain.
(3) As a surfactant in molasses used in feeds, as liquid lignin sulfonate, in an amount not to exceed 11 percent of the molasses.
(4) As a source of metabolizable energy, in the liquid or dry form, in an amount not to exceed 4 percent of the finished feed.
§ 573.615
Marine microalgae.
The food additive, marine microalgae, may be safely used as a source of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and other omega-3 fatty acids in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is dried whole cells of nonviable, nontoxigenic, nonpathogenic
Schizochytrium
sp. algae grown as a pure culture.
(b) The additive is used in complete, dry adult maintenance food for dogs in accordance with good manufacturing and feeding practices not to exceed 16.5 pounds per ton (7.5 kilograms (kg) per
1000 kg) of complete, dry, adult maintenance dog food.
(c) The additive consists of not less than 17.0 percent (4
Z,
7
Z,
10
Z,
13
Z,
16
Z,
19
Z
)-docosa-4,7,10,13,16,19-hexaenoic acid (docosahexaenoic acid or DHA).
(d) The additive meets the following specifications:
(1) Not less than 40 percent crude fat;
(2) Not more than 12 percent ash;
(3) Not more than 8 percent unsaponifiable matter;
(4) Not more than 5 percent insoluble impurities;
(5) Not more than 5 percent free fatty acids; and
(6) Not more than 6 percent water.
(e) To ensure the safe use of the additive, in addition to other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act:
(1) The label and labeling of the additive, any feed premix, and complete feed, shall contain the name of the additive, marine microalgae.
(2) The label and labeling of the additive and any feed premix shall also contain:
(i) A statement to indicate that the maximum use level of the additive shall not exceed 16.5 pounds per ton (7.5 kg per 1000 kg) of complete, dry, adult maintenance dog food.
(ii) Adequate directions for use.
[83 FR 19935, May 7, 2018]
§ 573.620
Menadione dimethylpyrimidinol bisulfite.
The food additive, menadione dimethylpyrimidinol bisulfite, may be safely used in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The additive is the 2-hydroxy-4,6-dimethylpyrimidinol salt of menadione (C
1
7
H
1
8
O
6
N
2
S).
(b) The additive is used or intended for use as a nutritional supplement for the prevention of vitamin K deficiency as follows:
(1) In chicken and turkey feed at a level not to exceed 2 grams per ton of complete feed.
(2) In the feed of growing and finishing swine at a level not to exceed 10 grams per ton of feed.
(c) To assure safe use, the label and labeling of the additive shall bear adequate directions for use.
§ 573.625
Menadione nicotinamide bisulfite.
The food additive may be safely used as follows:
(a) The additive is 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2-methyl-1,4-dioxo-2-naphthalene sulfonic acid with 3-pyridine carboxylic acid amine (CAS No. 73581-79-0).
(b) The additive is used or intended for use as a nutritional supplement for both the prevention of vitamin K deficiency and as a source of supplemental niacin as follows:
(1) In chicken and turkey feeds at a level not to exceed 2 grams per ton of complete feed.
(2) In growing and finishing swine feeds at a level not to exceed 10 grams per ton of complete feed.
(c) To assure safe use, the label and labeling of the additive shall bear adequate directions for use.
[64 FR 46840, Aug. 27, 1999]
§ 573.637
Methyl esters of conjugated linoleic acid (cis-9, trans-11 and trans-10, cis-12-octadecadienoic acids).
The food additive, methyl esters of conjugated linoleic acid (cis-9, trans-11 and trans-10, cis-12-octadecadienoic acids) may be safely used in swine feed and feed for early lactation dairy cows (less than 100 days in milk) in accordance with the prescribed conditions:
(a) The food additive is manufactured by the reaction of refined sunflower oil with methanol to produce fatty acid methyl esters, which then undergo conjugation to yield methyl esters of octadecadienoic acid. The additive consists of not less than 28 percent methyl ester of cis-9, trans-11-octadecadienoic acid, and not less than 28 percent methyl ester of trans-10, cis-12-octadecadienoic acid with the sum of the other methyl esters of octadecadienoic acid not to exceed 4 percent. The additive shall contain not less than 35 percent of other fatty acid esters composed of oleic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, linoleic acid, and other associated acid esters.
(b) The additive is used or intended for use in the feed of:
(1) Growing and finishing swine as a source of fatty acids at levels not to exceed 0.6% in the finished feed.
(2) Early lactation dairy cows to reduce the energy concentration in milk when fed at levels not to exceed 33 grams per cow per day.
(c) The additive meets the following specifications:
(1) Free methyl alcohol not to exceed 0.015%.
(2) Insoluble impurities not to exceed 0.1%.
(3) Moisture not to exceed 0.5%.
(4) Unsaponifiable matter not to exceed 1.0%.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act:
(1) The label and labeling of the additive and any feed premix shall bear the following:
(i) The name of the additive.
(ii) A statement to indicate that methyl esters of conjugated linoleic acid (cis-9, trans-11 and trans-10, cis-12 octadecadienoic acids) must not be added to vitamin or mineral premixes.
(2) The label and labeling of the additive, any feed premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall bear adequate directions for use.
[73 FR 64198, Oct. 29, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 21019, Apr. 11, 2022]
§ 573.640
Methyl esters of higher fatty acids.
The food additive methyl esters of higher fatty acids may be safely used in animal feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The food additive is manufactured by reaction of methyl alcohol with feed-grade fats or oils and consists of not less than 70 percent methyl esters of the following straight-chain monocarboxylic acids: Docosahexanoic acid, eicosapentanoic acid, linoleic acid, myristic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid, palmitoleic acid, and stearic acid, and lesser amounts of the associated acid esters.
(b) The food additive meets the following specifications:
(1) Free methyl alcohol not to exceed 150 parts per million.
(2) Unsaponifiable matter not to exceed 2 percent.
(3) It is free of chick-edema factor or other factors toxic to chicks, as evidenced during the bioassay method for determining the chick-edema factor as prescribed in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.
(4) For the purposes of this section:
(i) Unsaponifiable matter shall be determined by the method described in Section 28.081, “Unsaponifiable Residue (20)—Official Final Action” of the “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed., 1980, p. 451, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(ii) The chick-edema factor bioassay method described under “26. Oils, Fats, and Waxes” in the
Journal of the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists,
Vol. 44, Page 146 (1961), or the method described under “Chick-Edema Factor—Bioassay Method (34)—Official Final Action” in §§ 28.113-28.117, “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 12th Ed., 1975, pp. 509-511, which is incorporated by reference, shall be employed. (Copies of the methods are available from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or available for inspectionat the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
) The presence of chick-edema factor shall be determined by a comparison between the mean log of the pericardial fluid volumes of a test group and of a concurrent negative control group. The significance of the difference in pericardial fluid volumes between the test group and the negative control group is determined by calculating a
“t”
value according to the formula:
ER01JA93.412
where:
x
t
and
x
c
are the means of the logs of the pericardial fluid volumes of the test and control groups, respectively;
n
t
and
n
c
are the number of chicks in the respective groups;
s
t
2
and
s
c
2
are the variances of the test and control groups, respectively.
The variances are calculated as follows:
ER01JA93.413
where:
Σ
x
is the sum of the logs of the pericardial fluid volumes;
Σ
x
2
is the sum of the squares of the logs of the pericardial fluid volumes for either the test
t
or control
c
group data.
The test sample is judged to contain chick-edema factor if the calculated
“t”
exceeds +1.3 and the mean log of the pericardial fluid volume obtained from the negative control group multiplied by 100 is less than 1.1461.
(iii) “Other factors toxic to chicks” referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be determined during the course of the bioassay test described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, on the basis of chick deaths or other abnormalities not attributable to chick-edema factor or to the experimental conditions of the test.
(c) It is used or intended for use as a supplementary source of fat for animal feed.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act:
(1) The label and labeling of the additive, and any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall bear:
(i) The name of the additive.
(ii) The designation “feed grade” in juxtaposition with the name and equally as prominent.
(2) The label or labeling of the additive and any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall bear adequate directions for use.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 47 FR 9397, Mar. 5, 1982; 54 FR 18281, Apr. 28, 1989; 70 FR 40880, July 15, 2005; 70 FR 67651, Nov. 8, 2005]
§ 573.660
Methyl glucoside-coconut oil ester.
Methyl glucoside-coconut oil ester may be safely used in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The additive meets the specifications prescribed in § 172.816 of this chapter.
(b) It is used as a surfactant in molasses intended for use in animal feed at a level not to exceed 320 parts per million.
§ 573.680
Mineral oil.
Mineral oil may be safely used in animal feed, subject to the provisions of this section.
(a) Mineral oil, for the purpose of this section, is that complying with the definition and specifications contained in § 172.878 (a) and (b) or in § 178.3620(b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this chapter.
(b) It is used in animal feeds for the following purposes:
(1) To reduce dustiness of feeds or mineral supplements.
(2) To serve as a lubricant in the preparation of pellets, cubes, or blocks and to improve resistance to moisture of such pellets, cubes, or blocks.
(3) To prevent the segregation of trace minerals in mineralized salt.
(4) To serve as a diluent carrier in the manufacture of feed grade biuret in accordance with good manufacturing practice.
(5) For the removal of water from substances intended as ingredients of animal feed.
(c) The quantity of mineral oil used in animal feed shall not exceed 3.0 percent in mineral supplements, nor shall it exceed 0.06 percent of the total ration when present in feed or feed concentrates.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 47 FR 41106, Sept. 17, 1982]
§ 573.685
Natamycin.
The food additive natamycin (CAS No. 7681-93-8) may be safely used in
broiler chicken feeds in accordance with the following specifications:
(a) The additive is a stereoisomer of 22-[(3-amino-3,6,dideoxy-β-D-mannopyranosyl)oxy]-1,3,26-trihydroxy-12-methyl-10-oxo-6,11,28-trioxatricyclo[22.3.1.0
5
,
7
] octacosa-8,14,16,18,20-pentaene-25-carboxylic acid with the empirical formula C
33
H
47
NO
13
.
(b) The additive shall conform to U.S.P. specifications.
(c) The additive (as part of a premix composed of calcium carbonate, natamycin, and lactose) is used for retarding the growth of
Aspergillus parasiticus
in broiler chicken feeds for up to 14 days after the addition of natamycin.
(d) Each pound (454 grams (g)) of the premix shall contain 434 (g) of calcium carbonate, 10 g of natamycin activity, and 10 g of lactose. The premix shall be mixed into broiler chicken feed at the rate of 1 pound (0.454 kilograms (kg)) per ton (908 kg) of feed to provide natamycin at a level of 11 parts per million (ppm). The premix shall be thoroughly mixed into the dry components of the broiler chicken feed before adding the liquid components. Broiler feeds to which the natamycin premix is added shall be used within 4 weeks of addition of the premix.
(e) To assure the safe use of the additive, the label or labeling of the additive shall bear, in addition to other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the following:
(1) The name and CAS number of the additive, and its purpose.
(2) A listing of ingredients consisting of calcium carbonate, the additive, and lactose and their proportions in the premix as prescribed under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) Adequate directions for use to ensure a broiler chicken feed that is in compliance with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.
(4) An appropriate cautionary statement: “Caution: Store in a tightly-closed, light-resistant container in a cool, dry place.”
(5) An expiration date of 1 year from the date of manufacture.
(6) A contact address and telephone number for reporting adverse reactions experienced by users, or to request a copy of the Material Safety Data Sheet for natamycin.
[69 FR 19321, Apr. 13, 2004]
§ 573.696
Feed grade sodium formate.
The food additive, feed grade sodium formate, may be safely used in the manufacture of complete swine and poultry feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is manufactured by the reaction of 99 percent formic acid and 50 percent sodium hydroxide in water to produce a solution made up of at least 20.5 percent sodium salt of formic acid and not more than 61 percent formic acid.
(b) The additive is used or intended for use as a feed acidifying agent, to lower the pH, in complete swine and poultry feeds at levels not to exceed 1.2 percent of the complete feed.
(c) To assure safe use of the additive, formic acid and formate salts from all added sources cannot exceed 1.2 percent of complete feed when multiple sources of formic acid and its salts are used in combination.
(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling shall contain:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) Adequate directions for use, including a statement that feed grade sodium formate must be uniformly applied and thoroughly mixed into complete feeds and that the complete feeds so treated shall be labeled as containing feed grade sodium formate.
(3) Cautions for use including this statement: Caution: Follow label directions. Formic acid and formate salts from all added sources cannot exceed 1.2 percent of complete feed when multiple sources of formic acid and its salts are used in combination.
(e) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act and paragraph (d) of this section, the label and labeling shall contain:
(1) Appropriate warnings and safety precautions concerning feed grade sodium formate.
(2) Statements identifying feed grade sodium formate as a corrosive and possible severe irritant.
(3) Information about emergency aid in case of accidental exposure as follows:
(i) Statements reflecting requirements of applicable sections of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA), and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) human safety guidance regulations.
(ii) Contact address and telephone number for reporting adverse reactions or to request a copy of the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).
[81 FR 67154, Sept. 30, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 95027, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 573.700
Sodium nitrite.
Sodium nitrite may be safely used in canned pet food containing meat and fish in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) It is used or intended for use alone as a preservative and color fixative in canned pet food containing fish, meat, and fish and meat byproducts so that the level of sodium nitrite does not exceed 20 parts per million.
(b) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act:
(1) The label of the additive shall bear:
(i) The name of the additive.
(ii) A statement of the concentration of the additive in any mixture.
(2) The label or labeling shall bear adequate directions to provide a final product that complies with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 573.720
Petrolatum.
Petrolatum may be safely used in or on animal feed, subject to the following prescribed conditions:
(a) Petrolatum complies with the specifications set forth in the U.S. Pharmacopeia XVI for white petrolatum or in The National Formulary XII for yellow petrolatum.
(b) Petrolatum meets the following ultraviolet absorbance limits when subjected to the analytical procedure described in § 172.886(b) of this chapter.
Ultraviolet absorbance per centimeter path length:
Millimicrons
Maximum
280 to 289
0.25
290 to 299
.20
300 to 359
.14
360 to 400
.04
(c) It is used in animal feed for the following purposes:
(1) To reduce dustiness of feeds or mineral supplements.
(2) To serve as a lubricant in the preparation of pellets, cubes, or blocks, and to improve resistance to moisture of such pellets, cubes, or blocks.
(d) The quantity of petrolatum present in animal feeds from the uses specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall not exceed 3 percent in mineral supplements nor shall it exceed 0.06 percent of the total ration when present in feed or feed concentrates.
(e) When used in combination with technical white mineral oil for the uses described in paragraph (c) of this section, the total quantity of combined petrolatum and technical white mineral oil shall not exceed the limits prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Petrolatum may contain any antioxidant permitted in food by regulations issued in accordance with section 409 of the act, in an amount not greater than that required to produce its intended effect.
§ 573.740
Odorless light petroleum hydrocarbons.
Odorless light petroleum hydrocarbons complying with § 172.884(a) and (b) of this chapter may be safely used in an amount not in excess of that required as a component of insecticide formulations used in compliance with regulations issued in this part.
§ 573.760
Poloxalene.
The food additive poloxalene may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive consists of polyoxy-propylene-polyoxyethylene glycol non-ionic block polymer meeting the following specifications:
(1) Molecular weight range: 2,850-3,150.
(2) Hydroxyl number: 35.7-39.4.
(3) Cloud point (10 percent solution): 42 °C-46 °C.
(4) Structural formula:
ER01JA93.414
(b) In feed as a surfactant for the flaking of feed grains when added to liquid grain conditioner in an amount not to exceed 1.0 percent of the conditioner. The conditioner is added to the feed at a rate of 1 quart per ton of feed.
(c) The label and labeling shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) Adequate directions and warnings for use.
§ 573.780
Polyethylene.
(a)
Identity.
Polyethylene consists of basic polymers manufactured by the catalytic polymerization of ethylene.
(b)
Specifications.
(1) For the purposes of this section, polyethylene shall meet the specifications in item 2.1 of § 177.1520(c) of this chapter.
(2) The polyethylene is designed in a pellet form in a configuration presenting maximum angular surface having the following dimensions in centimeters:
0.9 ±0.1 × 0.8 ±0.1 × 1.2 ±0.1
(c)
Use.
It is used as a replacement for roughage in feedlot rations for finishing slaughter cattle.
(d)
Labeling.
The labels and labeling shall bear in addition to the other information required by the Act:
(1) The name of the additive “polyethylene roughage replacement.”
(2) Adequate directions for use which shall provide for the administration of one-half pound of polyethylene pellets per head per day for 6 successive days. All natural roughage should be removed for a minimum of 12 hours prior to administration of polyethylene roughage replacement. Roughage replacement must be adequately mixed in the ration for uniform distribution.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 54 FR 18282, Apr. 28, 1989]
§ 573.800
Polyethylene glycol (400) mono- and dioleate.
(a) The food additive polyethylene glycol (400) mono- and dioleate meets the following specifications: Saponification number, 80-88; acid number, 5.0 maximum; and average molecular weight range, 640-680.
(b) It is used as a processing aid in the production of animal feeds when present as a result of its addition to molasses in an amount not to exceed 250 parts per million of the molasses.
§ 573.820
Polyoxyethylene glycol (400) mono- and dioleates.
The food additive polyoxyethylene glycol (400) mono- and dioleates may be safely used as an emulsifier in calf-milk replacer formulations.
§ 573.840
Polysorbate 60.
The food additive polysorbate 60 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monostearate) may be safely used in animal feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) It is used alone or in combination with sorbitan monostearate as an emulsifier in mineral premixes and dietary supplements for animal feeds.
(b) It is used as an emulsifier in milk-replacer formulations for calves.
§ 573.860
Polysorbate 80.
The food additive polysorbate 80 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate) may be safely used as an emulsifier in milk-replacer formulations for calves.
§ 573.870
Poly(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene).
The food additive poly(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene) may be safely used as nutrient protectant in feed for beef cattle and dairy cattle and replacement dairy heifers when used in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The additive meets the following specifications:
Component/property
Limitation
Inherent viscosity
1.0-1.6 deciliter per gram.
1
Styrene moiety
40 percent maximum.
2-Vinylpyridine moiety.
90 percent maximum.
Residual styrene
200 parts per billion maximum.
Residual 2-vinylstyrene
200 parts per billion maximum.
Heavy metals such as lead
10 parts per million maximum.
Arsenic
3 parts per million maximum.
1
Inherent viscosity of a 0.25 percent (weight/volume) solution in dimethylformamide.
(b) The additive is used in the manufacture of rumen-stable, abomasum-dispersible nutrient(s) for beef cattle and dairy cattle and replacement dairy heifers such that the maximum use of the additive from all sources does not exceed 5.1 grams per head per day. The additive may be used to protect the following nutrients:
(1)
Methionine.
The resulting product must contain a maximum of 10 percent poly(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene) by weight and a minimum of 55 percent methionine by weight. The coated methionine must be established through in vitro tests to be at least 90 percent rumen-stable, of which at least 90 percent is subsequently dispersible under abomasal conditions.
(2)
Methionine and lysine.
The resulting product must contain a maximum of 10 percent poly(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene) by weight and a minimum of a combined total of 55 percent methionine and lysine by weight. The coated methionine and lysine must be established through in vitro tests to be at least 90 percent rumen-stable, of which at least 90 percent is subsequently dispersible under abomasal conditions.
(c)
Label and labeling.
To ensure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the additive and of any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or liquid feed supplement prepared therefrom, shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the following:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) A statement of the concentration of poly(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene) in any product or mixture.
(3) Adequate directions for the use of the rumen-stable, abomasum-dispersible nutrient(s) products.
(4) The following statement: “Warning: Maximum use of poly(2-vinylpyridine-co-styrene) from all sources is not to exceed 5.1 grams per head per day.”
[57 FR 7875, Mar. 5, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 24187, June 8, 1992; 61 FR 11547, Mar. 21, 1996; 70 FR 13100, Mar. 18, 2005]
§ 573.880
Normal propyl alcohol.
Normal propyl alcohol may be safely used in feeds and feed supplements for cattle as a source of metabolizable energy. It is incorporated in the feed or feed supplement in an amount which provides not more than 54.5 grams of the additive per head per day.
§ 573.900
Pyrophyllite.
Pyrophyllite (aluminum silicate monohydrate) may be safely used as the sole anticaking aid, blending agent, pelleting aid, or carrier in animal feed when incorporated therein in an amount not to exceed 2 percent in complete animal feed.
§ 573.914
Salts of volatile fatty acids.
(a)
Identity.
The food additive is a blend containing the ammonium or calcium salt of isobutyric acid and the ammonium or calcium salts of a mixture of 5-carbon acids—isovaleric, 2-methylbutyric, and
n
-valeric.
(b)
Specifications.
The additive contains ammonium or calcium salts of volatile fatty acids and shall conform to the following specifications:
(1) Ammonium salts:
Components
Amount
Ammonium salts of mixed 5-carbon acids (as identified in paragraph (a) of this section)
48 to 54 percent.
Ammonium salt of isobutyric acid
22 to 26 percent.
Water
28 percent maximum.
Ammonia
0.3 percent maximum.
Arsenic
3 parts per million maximum.
Heavy metals such as lead
10 parts per million maximum.
(2) Calcium salts:
Components
Amount
Calcium salts of mixed 5-carbon acids (as identified in paragraph (a) of this section)
58 to 72 percent.
Calcium salt of isobutyric acid
26 to 34 percent.
Calcium hydroxide
3 percent maximum.
Water
14 percent maximum.
Arsenic
3 parts per million maximum.
Heavy metals such as lead
10 parts per million maximum.
(c)
Use.
The additive is used or intended for use as a source of energy in dairy cattle feed.
(d)
Labeling.
The label and labeling of the additive in any feed, feed supplement, feed concentrate, feed premix, or
liquid feed supplement prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to other information required by the act, the following:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) Adequate directions for use, including statements expressing maximum use levels. For ammonium salts of volatile fatty acids, the statements: “Not to exceed 160 grams per head per day thoroughly mixed in dairy cattle feed as a source of energy.” For calcium salts of volatile fatty acids, the statement: “Not to exceed 135 grams per head per day thoroughly mixed in dairy cattle feed as a source of energy.”
[49 FR 45125, Nov. 15, 1984; 50 FR 8606, Mar. 4, 1985, as amended at 70 FR 13100, Mar. 18, 2005]
§ 573.920
Selenium.
(a) Public Law 103-354 enacted October 13, 1994 (the 1994 Act), states that FDA shall not implement or enforce the final rule issued on September 13, 1993 (58 FR 47962), in which FDA stayed the 1987 amendments and any modification of such rule issued after enactment of the 1994 Act; unless the Commissioner of Food and Drugs makes a determination that:
(1) Selenium additives are not essential at levels authorized in the absence of such final rule, to maintain animal nutrition and protect animal health;
(2) selenium at such levels is not safe to the animals consuming the additive;
(3) selenium at such levels is not safe to individuals consuming edible portions of animals that receive the additive;
(4) selenium at such levels does not achieve its intended effect of promoting normal growth and reproduction of livestock and poultry; and
(5) the manufacture and use of selenium at such levels cannot reasonably be controlled by adherence to current good manufacturing practice requirements.
(6) Paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section provide the currently acceptable levels of selenium supplementation.
(b) The food additive selenium is a nutrient administered in animal feed as sodium selenite or sodium selenate as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, as a controlled-release sodium selenite bolus as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, as selenium yeast as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, or as selenomethionine hydroxy analogue as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(c) Selenium, as sodium selenite or sodium selenate, is added to feed as follows:
(1) In complete feed for chickens, swine, turkeys, sheep, cattle, and ducks at a level not to exceed 0.3 part per million.
(2) In feed supplements for limit feeding as follows:
(i)
Sheep:
At a level not to exceed an intake of 0.7 milligram per head per day.
(ii)
Beef cattle:
At a level not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.
(3) In salt-mineral mixtures for free-choice feeding as follows:
(i)
Sheep:
Up to 90 parts per million in a mixture for free-choice feeding at a rate not to exceed an intake of 0.7 milligram per head per day.
(ii)
Beef cattle:
Up to 120 parts per million in a mixture for free-choice feeding at a rate not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.
(4) The additive, as sodium selenite or sodium selenate, shall be incorporated into feed as follows:
(i) It shall be incorporated into each ton of complete feed by adding no less than 1 pound of a premix containing no more than 272.4 milligrams of added selenium per pound.
(ii) It shall be incorporated into each ton of salt-mineral mixture for sheep or beef cattle from a premix containing no more than 4.5 grams of added selenium per pound.
(5) Usage of the additive must conform to the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(d) The premix manufacturer shall follow good manufacturing practices in the production of selenium premixes. Inventory, production, and distribution records must provide a complete and accurate history of product production. Production controls must assure products to be what they are purported and labeled. Production controls shall include analysis sufficient to adequately monitor quality.
(e) The label or labeling of any selenium premix shall bear adequate directions and cautions for use including this statement: “Caution: Follow label directions. The addition to feed of higher levels of this premix containing selenium is not permitted.”
(f) The additive is orally administered to beef and dairy cattle as an osmotically controlled, constant release bolus containing sodium selenite. Each bolus contains 360 milligrams of selenium as sodium selenite, and delivers 3 milligrams of selenium per day for 120 days. To ensure safe use of the additive:
(1) The osmotically controlled, constant release bolus is for use only in beef and dairy cattle more than 3 months of age or over 200 pounds body weight.
(2) Only one bolus containing 360 milligrams of selenium as sodium selenite is administered orally to each animal in 120 days.
(3) The labeling shall bear the following: “This bolus delivers the maximum daily allowable amount of selenium and shall be the sole source of supplementation. Do not use in areas containing excess selenium. Do not rebolus within 4 months.”
(g) Selenium yeast is a dried, non-viable yeast (
Saccharomyces cerevisiae
) cultivated in a fed-batch fermentation which provides incremental amounts of cane molasses and selenium salts in a manner which minimizes the detrimental effects of selenium salts on the growth rate of the yeast and allows for optimal incorporation of inorganic selenium into cellular organic material. Residual inorganic selenium is eliminated in a rigorous washing process and must not exceed 2 percent of the total selenium content in the final selenium yeast product.
(1) Selenium, as selenium yeast, is added to feed as follows:
(i) In complete feed for chickens, turkeys, swine, beef cattle, and dairy cattle at a level not to exceed 0.3 part per million.
(ii) In feed supplements for limit feeding for beef cattle at a level not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.
(iii) In salt-mineral mixtures for free-choice feeding for beef cattle up to 120 parts per million in a mixture for free-choice feeding at a rate not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.
(2) Guaranteed organic selenium content from selenium yeast must be declared on the selenium yeast product label.
(3) The additive, as selenium yeast, shall be incorporated into feed as follows:
(i) It shall be incorporated into each ton of complete feed by adding no less than 1 pound of a premix containing no more than 272.4 milligrams of added selenium per pound.
(ii) It shall be incorporated into each ton of salt-mineral mixture for beef cattle from a premix containing no more than 4.5 grams of added selenium per pound.
(4) Usage of this additive must conform to the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(h) Selenomethionine hydroxy analogue [R,S-2-hydroxy-4-methylselenobutanoic acid (CAS 873660-49-2)] is manufactured by the reaction of elemental selenium with methyllithium to form a methylseleno salt, which is then reacted with R,S-2-hydroxybutyrolactone to form a salt of 2-hydroxy-4-methylselenobutanoic acid. After acidification and purification, the additive consists of not less than 39.5 percent total selenium by weight with a selenomethionine hydroxy analogue content of not less than 98 percent of total selenium. The total organic selenium content of the additive is not less than 99 percent of total selenium.
(1) The selenomethionine hydroxy analogue meets the following specifications:
(i) Arsenic, not more than 2 parts per million (ppm);
(ii) Cadmium, not more than 1 ppm;
(iii) Lead, not more than 1 ppm; and
(iv) Mercury, not more than 1 ppm.
(2) Selenium, as selenomethionine hydroxy analogue, is added to feed as follows:
(i) In complete feed for chickens, turkeys, swine, beef cattle, and dairy cattle at a level not to exceed 0.3 ppm.
(ii) In feed supplements for limit feeding for beef cattle at a level not to
exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.
(iii) In salt-mineral mixtures for free-choice feeding for beef cattle up to 120 parts per million in a mixture for free-choice feeding at a rate not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.
(3) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling of selenomethionine hydroxy analogue in its packaged form shall contain:
(i) The name, selenomethionine hydroxy analogue;
(ii) Minimum and maximum guarantees for a total selenium content of not less than 2.08 percent (weight/weight) and not more than 2.24 percent;
(iii) Minimum guarantee for selenomethionine hydroxy analogue content of not less than 5.2 percent;
(iv) The following statement, “Storage Conditions: Selenomethionine hydroxy analogue must be stored in a closed package at temperatures not higher than 20 °C (68 °F).”; and
(v) An expiration date not to exceed 1 year from the date of manufacture.
(4) The additive, as selenomethionine hydroxy analogue, shall be incorporated into each ton of complete feed by adding no less than 1 pound of a premix containing no more than 272.4 milligrams of added selenium per pound.
(5) Usage of this additive must conform to the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
[52 FR 10888, Apr. 6, 1987; 52 FR 21001, June 4, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 14215, Apr. 10, 1989; 54 FR 15874, Apr. 19, 1989; 60 FR 53703, Oct. 17, 1995; 65 FR 35824, June 6, 2000; 65 FR 53167, Sept. 1, 2000; 67 FR 46851, July 17, 2002; 68 FR 52340, Sept. 3, 2003; 72 FR 39561, July 19, 2007; 84 FR 7993, Mar. 6, 2019; 86 FR 37036, July 14, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 58 FR 47973, Sept. 13, 1993, the amendments to § 573.920 that were published at 52 FR 10887, Apr. 6, 1987; 52 FR 21001, June 4, 1987; and 54 FR 14214, Apr. 10, 1989 were stayed until further notice. At 59 FR 45973, Sept. 6, 1994, the stay was confirmed.
§ 573.940
Silicon dioxide.
The food additive silicon dioxide may be safely used in animal feed in accordance with the following conditions:
(a) The food additive is manufactured by vapor phase hydrolysis or by other means whereby the particle size is such as to accomplish the intended effect.
(b) It is used or intended for use as an anticaking agent, antifoaming agent, carrier, and/or grinding aid in animal feed, including ingredients, intermediate premixes, premixes, supplements, concentrates, and complete feed.
(c) To ensure safe use of the additive, silicon dioxide is to be used in an amount not to exceed that reasonably required to accomplish its intended effect, and silicon dioxide from all sources cannot exceed 2 percent by weight of the complete feed.
(d) To ensure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the additive and ingredients, intermediate premixes, premixes, supplements, concentrates, and complete feed containing the additive shall meet the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, including part 501 of this chapter.
(e) To ensure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling of the additive and ingredients, intermediate premixes, premixes, supplements, and concentrates containing the additive shall have:
(1) A statement of the concentration of the additive.
(2) A statement that silicon dioxide from all sources cannot exceed 2 percent by weight of the complete feed.
[41 FR 38652, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 83 FR 8930, Mar. 2, 2018; 84 FR 7993, Mar. 6, 2019; 85 FR 33539, June 2, 2020]
§ 573.960
Sorbitan monostearate.
The food additive sorbitan monostearate may be safely used alone or in combination with polysorbate 60 as an emulsifier in mineral premixes and dietary supplements for animal feeds.
§ 573.980
Taurine.
The food additive taurine (2-amino-ethanesulfonic acid) may be safely used in feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) It is used as a nutritional supplement in the feed of growing chickens.
(b) It is added to complete feeds so that the total taurine content does not exceed 0.054 percent of the feed.
(c) To assure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling shall bear in addition to the other information required by the Act:
(1) The name of the additive.
(2) The quantity of the additive contained therein.
(3) Adequate directions for use.
§ 573.1000
Verxite.
The food additive verxite may be safely used in animal feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(a) The additive is a magnesium-aluminum-iron silicate conforming to one of the following:
(1)(i) Verxite granules: The additive contains a minimum of 98 percent of hydrobiotite; it is thermally expanded and has a bulk density of from 5 to 9 pounds per cubic foot.
(ii) It is used or intended for use:
(
a
) In poultry feed at a level not to exceed 5 percent of the weight of the finished feed as a nonnutritive bulking agent for restricting calorie intake in pullet replacement feeds.
(
b
) As an anticaking or blending agent, pelleting aid, or nonnutritive carrier for the incorporation of nutrients in poultry, swine, dog, or ruminant feeds, in an amount not to exceed that necessary to accomplish its intended effect and in no case to exceed 1.5 percent of the dog feed or 5 percent of the final feed for other animals.
(2)(i) Verxite flakes: The additive contains a minimum of 98 percent of hydrobiotite; it has a bulk density of from 20 to 30 pounds per cubic foot.
(ii) It is used or intended for use as an anticaking or blending agent in ruminant feeds in an amount not to exceed that necessary to accomplish its intended effect and in no case to exceed 1 percent by weight of the final feed for ruminants.
(3)(i) Verxite grits: The additive contains a minimum of 80 percent of hydrobiotite; it has a bulk density of from 40 to 50 pounds per cubic foot.
(ii) It is used or intended for use as a partial roughage replacement in ruminant feeds in an amount not to exceed that necessary to accomplish its intended effect and in no case to exceed 1 percent by weight of the final feed.
(b) To assure safe use of the additive, the label of any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act, the name of the additive (verxite granules, verxite flakes, or verxite grits), adequate directions for use, and, when the additive is present in excess of 1 percent, a statement of the quantity of the additive contained therein and the term “nonnutritive” in juxtaposition therewith.
§ 573.1010
Xanthan gum.
The food additive xanthan gum may be safely used in animal feed as follows:
(a) The food additive is xanthan gum as defined in § 172.695 of this chapter and meets all of the specifications thereof.
(b) It is used or intended for use as a stabilizer, emulsifier, thickener, suspending agent, or bodying agent in animal feed as follows:
(1) In calf milk replacers at a maximum use level of 0.1 percent, as fed.
(2) In liquid feed supplements for ruminant animals at a maximum use level of 0.25 percent (5 pounds per ton).
(c) To assure safe use of the additive:
(1) The label of its container shall bear, in addition to other information required by the act, the name of the additive.
(2) The label or labeling of the additive container shall bear adequate directions for use.
[49 FR 44630, Nov. 8, 1984]
§ 573.1020
Yellow prussiate of soda.
Yellow prussiate of soda (sodium ferrocyanide decahydrate: Na
4
Fe(Cn)
6
°-10H
2
O) may be safely used as an anticaking agent in salt for animal consumption at a level not to exceed 13 parts per million. The additive contains a minimum of 99.0 percent by weight of sodium ferrocyanide decahydrate.
[41 FR 38657, Sept. 10, 1976; 41 FR 48100, Nov. 2, 1976]
Pt. 579

# PART 579—IRRADIATION IN THE PRODUCTION, PROCESSING, AND HANDLING OF ANIMAL FEED AND PET FOOD

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
579.12
Incorporation of regulations in part 179.

# Subpart B—Radiation and Radiation Sources
579.22
Ionizing radiation for treatment of animal diets.
579.40
Ionizing radiation for the treatment of poultry feed and poultry feed ingredients.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 342, 343, 348, 371.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 579.12
Incorporation of regulations in part 179.
Regulations providing for irradiation in the production, processing, and handling of food in part 179 of this chapter are incorporated in subchapter E as applicable to use in the production, processing, handling, and labeling of animal feed and pet food, except where specifically provided for in this part. Any facility that treats animal feed and pet food with ionizing radiation must comply with the requirements of part 507 of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
[51 FR 5993, Feb. 19, 1986, as amended at 80 FR 56356, Sept. 17, 2015]

# Subpart B—Radiation and Radiation Sources
§ 579.22
Ionizing radiation for treatment of animal diets.
Ionizing radiation for treatment of complete diets for animals may be safely used under the following conditions:
(a)
Energy sources.
Ionizing radiation is limited to:
(1) Gamma rays for sealed units of the radionuclides cobalt-60 or cesium-137.
(2) Electrons generated from machine sources at energy levels not to exceed 10 million electron volts.
(b)
Uses.
(1) The ionizing radiation is used or intended for use in single treatment as follows:
Food for irradiation
Limitations
Use
Bagged complete diets, packaged feeds, feed ingredients, bulk feeds, animal treats and chews
Absorbed dose: Not to exceed 50 kiloGrays. Feeds and feed ingredients treated by irradiation should be formulated to account for nutritional loss
Microbial disinfection, control or elimination
(2) If an irradiated feed ingredient is less than 5 percent of the final product, the final product can be irradiated without being considered to be re-irradiated.
[51 FR 5993, Feb. 19, 1986; 51 FR 8315, Mar. 11, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 18148, Apr. 8, 1993; 66 FR 18540, Apr. 10, 2001]
§ 579.40
Ionizing radiation for the treatment of poultry feed and poultry feed ingredients.
Ionizing radiation for the treatment of complete poultry diets and poultry feed ingredients may be safely used as follows:
(a)
Energy sources.
Ionizing radiation is limited to:
(1) Gamma rays from sealed units of cobalt-60 or cesium-137;
(2) Electrons generated from machine sources at energy levels not to exceed 10 million electron volts (MeV);
(3) X-rays generated from machine sources at energies not to exceed 5 MeV, except as permitted by § 179.26(a)(4) of this chapter; or
(4) X-rays generated from machine sources using tantalum or gold as the target material and using energies not to exceed 7.5 MeV.
(b)
Limitation.
The ionizing radiation is used for feed or feed ingredients that do not contain drugs.
(c)
Use.
Ionizing radiation is used as a single treatment for rendering complete poultry diets or poultry feed ingredients salmonella negative as follows:
(1) Minimum dose 2.0 kiloGrays (kGy) (0.2 megarad (Mrad)); maximum dose 25 kGy (2.5 megarads Mrad). The absorbed dose of irradiation is to be based on initial concentration of salmonella using
the relationship that 1.0 kGy (0.1 Mrad) reduces salmonella concentration by one log cycle (one decimal reduction).
(2) Feeds treated by irradiation should be formulated to account for nutritional loss.
(3) If an irradiated feed ingredient is less than 5 percent of the final product, the final product can be irradiated without being considered to be reirradiated.
[60 FR 50099, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 78 FR 27304, May 10, 2013; 78 FR 34565, June 10, 2013]
Pt. 582

# PART 582—SUBSTANCES GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
582.1
Substances that are generally recognized as safe.
582.10
Spices and other natural seasonings and flavorings.
582.20
Essential oils, oleoresins (solvent-free), and natural extractives (including distillates).
582.30
Natural substances used in conjunction with spices and other natural seasonings and flavorings.
582.40
Natural extractives (solvent-free) used in conjunction with spices, seasonings, and flavorings.
582.50
Certain other spices, seasonings, essential oils, oleoresins, and natural extracts.
582.60
Synthetic flavoring substances and adjuvants.
582.80
Trace minerals added to animal feeds.
582.99
Adjuvants for pesticide chemicals.

# Subpart B—General Purpose Food Additives
582.1005
Acetic acid.
582.1009
Adipic acid.
582.1033
Citric acid.
582.1057
Hydrochloric acid.
582.1061
Lactic acid.
582.1069
Malic acid.
582.1073
Phosphoric acid.
582.1077
Potassium acid tartrate.
582.1087
Sodium acid pyrophosphate.
582.1091
Succinic acid.
582.1095
Sulfuric acid.
582.1099
Tartaric acid.
582.1125
Aluminum sulfate.
582.1127
Aluminum ammonium sulfate.
582.1129
Aluminum potassium sulfate.
582.1131
Aluminum sodium sulfate.
582.1135
Ammonium bicarbonate.
582.1137
Ammonium carbonate.
582.1139
Ammonium hydroxide.
582.1141
Ammonium phosphate.
582.1143
Ammonium sulfate.
582.1155
Bentonite.
582.1165
Butane.
582.1191
Calcium carbonate.
582.1193
Calcium chloride.
582.1195
Calcium citrate.
582.1199
Calcium gluconate.
582.1205
Calcium hydroxide.
582.1207
Calcium lactate.
582.1210
Calcium oxide.
582.1217
Calcium phosphate.
582.1235
Caramel.
582.1240
Carbon dioxide.
582.1275
Dextrans.
582.1320
Glycerin.
582.1324
Glyceryl monostearate.
582.1355
Helium.
582.1366
Hydrogen peroxide.
582.1400
Lecithin.
582.1425
Magnesium carbonate.
582.1428
Magnesium hydroxide.
582.1431
Magnesium oxide.
582.1480
Methylcellulose.
582.1500
Monoammonium glutamate.
582.1516
Monopotassium glutamate.
582.1540
Nitrogen.
582.1585
Papain.
582.1613
Potassium bicarbonate.
582.1619
Potassium carbonate.
582.1625
Potassium citrate.
582.1631
Potassium hydroxide.
582.1643
Potassium sulfate.
582.1655
Propane.
582.1666
Propylene glycol.
582.1685
Rennet.
582.1711
Silica aerogel.
582.1721
Sodium acetate.
582.1736
Sodium bicarbonate.
582.1742
Sodium carbonate.
582.1745
Sodium carboxymethylcellulose.
582.1748
Sodium caseinate.
582.1751
Sodium citrate.
582.1763
Sodium hydroxide.
582.1775
Sodium pectinate.
582.1778
Sodium phosphate.
582.1781
Sodium aluminum phosphate.
582.1792
Sodium sesquicarbonate.
582.1804
Sodium potassium tartrate.
582.1810
Sodium tripolyphosphate.
582.1901
Triacetin.
582.1973
Beeswax.
582.1975
Bleached beeswax.
582.1978
Carnauba wax.

# Subpart C—Anticaking Agents
582.2122
Aluminum calcium silicate.
582.2227
Calcium silicate.
582.2437
Magnesium silicate.
582.2727
Sodium aluminosilicate.
582.2729
Hydrated sodium calcium aluminosilicate.
582.2906
Tricalcium silicate.

# Subpart D—Chemical Preservatives
582.3013
Ascorbic acid.
582.3021
Benzoic acid.
582.3041
Erythorbic acid.
582.3081
Propionic acid.
582.3089
Sorbic acid.
582.3109
Thiodipropionic acid.
582.3149
Ascorbyl palmitate.
582.3169
Butylated hydroxyanisole.
582.3173
Butylated hydroxytoluene.
582.3189
Calcium ascorbate.
582.3221
Calcium propionate.
582.3225
Calcium sorbate.
582.3280
Dilauryl thiodipropionate.
582.3336
Gum guaiac.
582.3490
Methylparaben.
582.3616
Potassium bisulfite.
582.3637
Potassium metabisulfite.
582.3640
Potassium sorbate.
582.3660
Propyl gallate.
582.3670
Propylparaben.
582.3731
Sodium ascorbate.
582.3733
Sodium benzoate.
582.3739
Sodium bisulfite.
582.3766
Sodium metabisulfite.
582.3784
Sodium propionate.
582.3795
Sodium sorbate.
582.3798
Sodium sulfite.
582.3845
Stannous chloride.
582.3862
Sulfur dioxide.
582.3890
Tocopherols.

# Subpart E—Emulsifying Agents
582.4101
Diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming fatty acids.
582.4505
Mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming acids.
582.4521
Monosodium phosphate derivatives of mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming fatty acids.
582.4666
Propylene glycol.

# Subpart F—Nutrients and/or Dietary Supplements
582.5013
Ascorbic acid.
582.5017
Aspartic acid.
582.5049
Aminoacetic acid.
582.5065
Linoleic acid.
582.5118
Alanine.
582.5145
Arginine.
582.5159
Biotin.
582.5191
Calcium carbonate.
582.5195
Calcium citrate.
582.5201
Calcium glycerophosphate.
582.5210
Calcium oxide.
582.5212
Calcium pantothenate.
582.5217
Calcium phosphate.
582.5223
Calcium pyrophosphate.
582.5230
Calcium sulfate.
582.5245
Carotene.
582.5250
Choline bitartrate.
582.5252
Choline chloride.
582.5260
Copper gluconate.
582.5271
Cysteine.
582.5273
Cystine.
582.5301
Ferric phosphate.
582.5304
Ferric pyrophosphate.
582.5306
Ferric sodium pyrophosphate.
582.5308
Ferrous gluconate.
582.5311
Ferrous lactate.
582.5315
Ferrous sulfate.
582.5361
Histidine.
582.5370
Inositol.
582.5375
Iron reduced.
582.5381
Isoleucine.
582.5406
Leucine.
582.5411
Lysine.
582.5431
Magnesium oxide.
582.5434
Magnesium phosphate.
582.5443
Magnesium sulfate.
582.5446
Manganese chloride.
582.5449
Manganese citrate.
582.5452
Manganese gluconate.
582.5455
Manganese glycerophosphate.
582.5458
Manganese hypophosphite.
582.5461
Manganese sulfate.
582.5464
Manganous oxide.
582.5470
Mannitol.
582.5475
Methionine.
582.5477
Methionine hydroxy analog and its calcium salts.
582.5530
Niacin.
582.5535
Niacinamide.
582.5580
D-Pantothenyl alcohol.
582.5590
Phenylalanine.
582.5622
Potassium chloride.
582.5628
Potassium glycerophosphate.
582.5634
Potassium iodide.
582.5650
Proline.
582.5676
Pyridoxine hydrochloride.
582.5695
Riboflavin.
582.5697
Riboflavin-5-phosphate.
582.5701
Serine.
582.5772
Sodium pantothenate.
582.5778
Sodium phosphate.
582.5835
Sorbitol.
582.5875
Thiamine hydrochloride.
582.5878
Thiamine mononitrate.
582.5881
Threonine.
582.5890
Tocopherols.
582.5892
a
-Tocopherol acetate.
582.5915
Tryptophane.
582.5920
Tyrosine.
582.5925
Valine.
582.5930
Vitamin A.
582.5933
Vitamin A acetate.
582.5936
Vitamin A palmitate.
582.5945
Vitamin B
12
.
582.5950
Vitamin D
2
.
582.5953
Vitamin D
3
.
582.5985
Zinc chloride.
582.5988
Zinc gluconate.
582.5991
Zinc oxide.
582.5994
Zinc stearate.
582.5997
Zinc sulfate.

# Subpart G—Sequestrants
582.6033
Citric acid.
582.6085
Sodium acid phosphate.
582.6099
Tartaric acid.
582.6185
Calcium acetate.
582.6193
Calcium chloride.
582.6195
Calcium citrate.
582.6197
Calcium diacetate.
582.6199
Calcium gluconate.
582.6203
Calcium hexametaphosphate.
582.6215
Monobasic calcium phosphate.
582.6219
Calcium phytate.
582.6285
Dipotassium phosphate.
582.6290
Disodium phosphate.
582.6386
Isopropyl citrate.
582.6511
Monoisopropyl citrate.
582.6625
Potassium citrate.
582.6751
Sodium citrate.
582.6754
Sodium diacetate.
582.6757
Sodium gluconate.
582.6760
Sodium hexametaphosphate.
582.6769
Sodium metaphosphate.
582.6778
Sodium phosphate.
582.6787
Sodium pyrophosphate.
582.6789
Tetra sodium pyrophosphate.
582.6801
Sodium tartrate.
582.6804
Sodium potassium tartrate.
582.6807
Sodium thiosulfate.
582.6810
Sodium tripolyphosphate.
582.6851
Stearyl citrate.

# Subpart H—Stabilizers
582.7115
Agar-agar.
582.7133
Ammonium alginate.
582.7187
Calcium alginate.
582.7255
Chondrus extract.
582.7330
Gum arabic.
582.7333
Gum ghatti.
582.7339
Guar gum.
582.7343
Locust bean gum.
582.7349
Sterculia gum.
582.7351
Gum tragacanth.
582.7610
Potassium alginate.
582.7724
Sodium alginate.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 342, 348, 371.

# Source:
41 FR 38657, Sept. 10, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 582.1
Substances that are generally recognized as safe.
(a) It is impracticable to list all substances that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use. However, by way of illustration, the Commissioner regards such common food ingredients as salt, pepper, sugar, vinegar, baking powder, and monosodium glutamate as safe for their intended use. The lists in subparts B through H of this part include additional substances that, when used for the purposes indicated, in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice, are regarded by the Commissioner as generally recognized as safe for such uses.
(b) For the purposes of this section, good manufacturing or feeding practice shall be defined to include the following restrictions:
(1) The quantity of a substance added to animal food does not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish its intended physical, nutritional, or other technical effect in food; and
(2) The quantity of a substance that becomes a component of animal food as a result of its use in the manufacturing, processing, or packaging of food, and which is not intended to accomplish any physical or other technical effect in the food itself, shall be reduced to the extent reasonably possible.
(3) The substance is of appropriate grade and is prepared and handled as a food ingredient. Upon request the Commissioner will offer an opinion, based on specifications and intended use, as to whether or not a particular grade or lot of the substance is of suitable purity for use in food and would generally be regarded as safe for the purpose intended, by experts qualified to evaluate its safety.
(c) The inclusion of substances in the list of nutrients does not constitute a finding on the part of the Department that the substance is useful as a supplement to the diet for animals.
(d) Substances that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use within the meaning of section 409 of the Act are listed in subparts B through H of this part. When the status of a substance has been reevaluated and affirmed as GRAS or deleted from subparts B through H of this part, an appropriate explanation will be noted, e.g., “affirmed as GRAS,” “food additive regulation,” “interim food additive regulation,” or “prohibited from use in food,” with a reference to the appropriate new regulation. Such notation will apply only to the specific use covered by the review, e.g., direct animal food use and/or indirect animal food use and/or animal feed use and will not affect its status for other uses not specified in the referenced regulation, pending a specific review of such other uses.
§ 582.10
Spices and other natural seasonings and flavorings.
Spices and other natural seasonings and flavorings that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use, within the meaning of section 409 of the act, are as follows:
Common name
Botanical name of plant source
Alfalfa herb and seed
Medicago sativa
L.
Allspice
Pimenta officinalis
Lindl.
Ambrette seed
Hibiscus abelmoschus L.
Angelica
Angelica archangelica
L. or other spp. of Angelica.
Angelica root
Do.
Angelica seed
Do.
Angostura (cusparia bark)
Galipea officinalis
Hancock.
Anise
Pimpinella anisum
L.
Anise, star
Illicium verum Hook.
f.
Balm (lemon balm)
Melissa officinalis
L.
Basil, bush
Ocimum minimum
L.
Basil, sweet
Ocimum basilicum L.
Bay
Laurus nobilis
L.
Calendula
Calendula officinalis
L.
Camomile (chamomile), English or Roman
Anthemis nobilis
L.
Camomile (chamomile), German or Hungarian
Matricaria chamomilla
L.
Capers
Capparis spinosa
L.
Capsicum
Capsicum frutescens
L. or
Capsicum annuum
L.
Caraway
Carum carvi
L.
Caraway, black (black cumin)
Nigella sativa
L.
Cardamom (cardamon)
Elettaria cardamomum
Maton.
Cassia, Chinese
Cinnamomum cassia
Blume.
Cassia, Padang or Batavia
Cinnamomum burmanni
Blume.
Cassia, Saigon
Cinnamomum loureirii
Nees.
Cayenne pepper
Capsicum frutescens
L. or
Capsicum annuum
L.
Celery seed
Apium graveolens
L.
Chervil
Anthriscus cerefolium
(L.) Hoffm.
Chives
Allium schoenoprasum
L.
Cinnamon, Ceylon
Cinnamomum zeylanicum
Nees.
Cinnamon, Chinese
Cinnamomum cassia
Blume.
Cinnamon, Saigon
Cinnamomum loureirii
Nees.
Clary (clary sage)
Salvia sclarea L.
Clover
Trifolium
spp.
Cloves
Eugenia caryophyllata
Thunb.
Coriander
Coriandrum sativum
L.
Cumin (cummin)
Cuminum cyminum
L.
Cumin, black (black caraway)
Nigella sativa
L.
Dill
Anethum graveolens
L.
Elder flowers
Sambucus canadensis
L.
Fennel, common
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill.
Fennel, sweet (finocchio, Florence fennel)
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. var. duice (DC.) Alex.
Fenugreek
Trigonella foenum-graecum
L.
Galanga (galangal)
Alpina officinarum
Hance.
Garlic
Allium sativum
L.
Geranium
Pelargonium
spp.
Ginger
Zingiber officinale
Rosc.
Glycyrrhiza
Glycyrrhiza glabra
L. and other spp. of
Glycyrrhiza.
Grains of paradise
Amomum melegueta
Rosc.
Horehound (hoarhound)
Marrubium vulgare
L.
Horseradish
Armoracia lapathifolia
Gilib.
Hyssop
Hyssopus officinalis
L.
Lavender
Lavandula officinalis
Chaix.
Licorice
Glycyrrhiza glabra
L. and other spp. of
Glycyrrhiza.
Linden flowers
Tilia
spp.
Mace
Myristica fragrans
Houtt.
Marigold, pot
Calendula officinalis
L.
Marjoram, pot
Majorana onites
(L.) Benth.
Marjoram, sweet
Majorana hortensis
Moench.
Mustard, black or brown
Brassica nigra
(L.) Koch.
Mustard, brown
Brassica juncea
(L.) Coss.
Mustard, white or yellow
Brassica hirta
Moench.
Nutmeg
Myristica fragrans
Houtt.
Oregano (oreganum, Mexican oregano, Mexican sage, origan)
Lippia
spp.
Paprika
Capsicum annuum
L.
Parsley
Petroselinum crispum
(Mill.) Mansf.
Pepper, black
Piper nigrum
L.
Pepper, cayenne
Capsicum frutescens
L. or
Capsicum annuum
L.
Pepper, red
Do.
Pepper, white
Piper nigrum
L.
Peppermint
Mentha piperita
L.
Poppy seed
Papaver somniferum
L.
Pot marigold
Calendula officinalis
L.
Pot marjoram
Majorana onites
(L.) Benth.
Rosemary
Rosmarinus officinalis
L.
Rue
Ruta graveolens
L.
Saffron
Crocus sativus
L.
Sage
Salvia officinalis
L.
Sage, Greek
Salvia triloba
L.
Savory, summer
Satureia hortensis
L. (Satureja).
Savory, winter
Satureia montana
L. (Satureja).
Sesame
Sesamum indicum
L.
Spearmint
Mentha spicata
L.
Star anise
Illicium verum
Hook. f.
Tarragon
Artemisia dracunculus
L.
Thyme
Thymus vulgaris
L.
Thyme, wild or creeping
Thymus serpyllum
L.
Turmeric
Curcuma longa
L.
Vanilla
Vanilla planifolia
Andr. or
Vanilla tahitensis
J. W. Moore.
Zedoary
Curcuma zedoaria
Rosc.
§ 582.20
Essential oils, oleoresins (solvent-free), and natural extractives (including distillates).
Essential oils, oleoresins (solvent-free), and natural extractives (including distillates) that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use, within the meaning of section 409 of the act, are as follows:
Common name
Botanical name of plant source
Alfalfa
Medicago sativa
L.
Allspice
Pimenta officinalis
Lindl.
Almond, bitter (free from prussic acid)
Prunus amygdalus
Batsch,
Prunus armeniaca
L. or
Prunus persica
(L.) Batsch.
Ambrette (seed)
Hibiscus moschatus
Moench.
Angelica root
Angelica archangelica
L.
Angelica seed
Do.
Angelica stem
Do.
Angostura (cusparia bark)
Galipea officinalis
Hancock.
Anise
Pimpinella anisum
L.
Asafetida
Ferula assa-foetida
L. and related spp. of Ferula.
Balm (lemon balm)
Melissa officinalis
L.
Balsam of Peru
Myroxylon pereirae
Klotzsch.
Basil
Ocimum basilicum
L.
Bay leaves
Laurus nobilis
L.
Bay (myrcia oil)
Pimenta racemosa
(Mill.) J. W. Moore.
Bergamot (bergamot orange)
Citrus aurantium
L. subsp. bergamia Wright et Arn.
Bitter almond (free from prussic acid)
Prunus amygdalus
Batsch,
Prunus armeniaca
L., or
Prunus persica
(L.) Batsch.
Bois de rose
Aniba rosaeodora
Ducke.
Cacao
Theobroma cacao
L.
Camomile (chamomile) flowers, Hungarian
Matricaria chamomilla
L.
Camomile (chamomile) flowers, Roman or English
Anthemis nobilis
L.
Cananga
Cananga odorata
Hook. f. and Thoms.
Capsicum
Capsicum frutescens
L. and
Capsicum annuum
L.
Caraway
Carum carvi
L.
Cardamom seed (cardamon)
Elettaria cardamomum
Maton.
Carob bean
Ceratonia siliqua
L.
Carrot
Daucus carota
L.
Cascarilla bark
Croton eluteria
Benn.
Cassia bark, Chinese
Cinnamomum cassia
Blume.
Cassia bark, Padang or Batavia
Cinnamomum burmanni
Blume.
Cassia bark, Saigon
Cinnamomum loureirii
Nees.
Celery seed
Apium graveolens
L.
Cherry, wild, bark
Prunus serotina
Ehrh.
Chervil
Anthriscus cerefolium
(L.) Hoffm.
Chicory
Cichorium intybus
L.
Cinnamon bark, Ceylon
Cinnamomum zeylanicum
Nees.
Cinnamon bark, Chinese
Cinnamomum cassia
Blume.
Cinnamon bark, Saigon
Cinnamomum loureirii
Nees.
Cinnamon leaf, Ceylon
Cinnamomum zeylanicum
Nees.
Cinnamon leaf, Chinese
Cinnamomum cassia
Blume.
Cinnamon leaf, Saigon
Cinnamomum loureirii
Nees.
Citronella
Cymbopogon nardus
Rendle.
Citrus peels
Citrus
spp.
Clary (clary sage)
Salvia sclarea
L.
Clove bud
Eugenia caryophyllata
Thunb.
Clove leaf
Do.
Clove stem
Do.
Clover
Trifolium
spp.
Coca (decocainized)
Erythroxylum coca
Lam. and other spp. of Erythroxylum.
Coffee
Coffea
spp.
Cola nut
Cola acuminata
Schott and Endl., and other spp. of Cola.
Coriander
Coriandrum sativum
L.
Corn silk
Zea mays
L.
Cumin (cummin)
Cuminum cyminum
L.
Curacao orange peel (orange, bitter peel)
Citrus aurantium
L.
Cusparia bark
Galipea officinalis
Hancock.
Dandelion
Taraxacum officinale
Weber and
T. laevigatum
DC.
Dandelion root
Do.
Dill
Anethum graveolens
L.
Dog grass (quackgrass, triticum)
Agropyron repens
(L.) Beauv.
Elder flowers
Sambucus canadensis
L. and S. nigra L.
Estragole (esdragol, esdragon, tarragon)
Artemisia dracunculus
L.
Estragon (tarragon)
Do.
Fennel, sweet
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill.
Fenugreek
Trigonella foenum-graecum
L.
Galanga (galangal)
Alpinia officinarum
Hance.
Garlic
Allium sativum
L.
Geranium
Pelargonium
spp.
Geranium, East Indian
Cymbopogon martini
Stapf.
Geranium, rose
Pelargonium graveolens
L'Her.
Ginger
Zingiber officinale
Rosc.
Glycyrrhiza
Glycyrrhiza glabra
L. and other spp. of Glycyrrhiza.
Glycyrrhizin, ammoniated
Do.
Grapefruit
Citrus paradisi
Macf.
Guava
Psidium
spp.
Hickory bark
Carya
spp.
Horehound (hoarhound)
Marrubium vulgare
L.
Hops
Humulus lupulus
L.
Horsemint
Monarda punctata
L.
Hyssop
Hyssopus officinalis
L.
Immortelle
Helichrysum augustifolium
DC.
Jasmine
Jaminum officinale
L. and other spp. of Jasminum.
Juniper (berries)
Juniperus communis
L.
Kola nut
Cola acuminata
Schott and Endl., and other spp. of Cola.
Laurel berries
Laurus nobilis
L.
Laurel leaves
Laurus
spp.
Lavender
Lavandula officinalis
Chaix.
Lavender, spike
Lavandula latifolia
Vill.
Lavandin
Hybrids between
Lavandula officinalis
Chaix and
Lavandula latifolin
Vill.
Lemon
Citrus limon
(L.) Burm. f.
Lemon balm (see balm).
Lemon grass
Cymbopogon citratus
DC. and
Cymbopogon flexuosus
Stapf.
Lemon peel
Citrus limon
(L.) Burm. f.
Licorice
Glycyrrhiza glabra
L. and other spp. of Glycyrrhiza.
Lime
Citrus aurantifolia
Swingle.
Linden flowers
Tilia
spp.
Locust bean
Ceratonia siliqua
L.
Lupulin
Humulus lupulus
L.
Mace
Myristica fragrans
Houtt.
Malt (extract)
Hordeum vulgare
L., or other grains.
Mandarin
Citrus reticulata
Blanco.
Marjoram, sweet
Majorana hortensis
Moench.
Mate 1
Ilex paraguariensis
St. Hil.
Melissa (see balm).
Menthol
Mentha
spp.
Menthyl acetate
Do.
Molasses (extract)
Saccharum officinarum
L.
Mustard
Brassica
spp.
Naringin
Citrus paradisi
Macf.
Neroli, bigarade
Citrus aurantium
L.
Nutmeg
Myristica fragrans
Houtt.
Onion
Allium cepa
L.
Orange, bitter, flowers
Citrus aurantium
L.
Orange, bitter, peel
Do.
Orange leaf
Citrus sinensis
(L.) Osbeck.
Orange, sweet
Do.
Orange, sweet, flowers
Do.
Orange, sweet, peel
Do.
Origanum
Origanum
spp.
Palmarosa
Cymbopogon martini
Stapf.
Paprika
Capsicum annuum
L.
Parsley
Petroselinum crispum
(Mill.) Mansf.
Pepper, black
Piper nigrum
L.
Pepper, white
Piper nigrum
L.
Peppermint
Mentha piperita
L.
Peruvian balsam
Myroxylon pereirae
Klotzsch.
Petitgrain
Citrus aurantium
L.
Petitgrain lemon
Citrus limon
(L.) Burm. f.
Petitgrain mandarin or tangerine
Citrus reticulata
Blanco.
Pimenta
Pimenta officinalis
Lindl.
Pimenta leaf
Primenta officinalis
Lindl.
Pipsissewa leaves
Chimaphila umbellata
Nutt.
Pomegranate
Punica granatum
L.
Prickly ash bark
Xanthoxylum
(
or Zanthoxylum
)
Americanum
Mill. or
Xanthoxylum clava-herculis
L.
Rose absolute
Rosa alba
L.,
Rosa centifolia
L.,
Rosa damascena
Mill.,
Rosa gallica
L., and vars. of these spp.
Rose (otto of roses, attar of roses)
Do.
Rose buds
Do.
Rose flowers
Do.
Rose fruit (hips)
Do.
Rose geranium
Pelargonium graveolens
L'Her.
Rose leaves
Rosa
spp.
Rosemary
Rosmarinus officinalis
L.
Rue
Ruta graveolens
L.
Saffron
Crocus sativus
L.
Sage
Salvia officinalis
L.
Sage, Greek
Salvia triloba
L.
Sage, Spanish
Salvia lavandulaefolia
Vahl.
St. John's bread
Ceratonia siliqua
L.
Savory, summer
Satureia hortensis
L.
Savory, winter
Satureia montana
L.
Schinus molle
Schinus molle
L.
Sloe berries (blackthorn berries)
Prunus spinosa
L.
Spearmint
Mentha spicata
L.
Spike lavender
Lavandula latifolia
Vill.
Tamarind
Tamarindus indica
L.
Tangerine
Citrus reticulata
Blanco.
Tannic acid
Nutgalls of
Quercus infectoria
Oliver and related spp. of Quercus. Also in many other plants.
Tarragon
Artemisia dracunculus
L.
Tea
Thea sinensis
L.
Thyme
Thymus vulgaris
L. and
Thymus zygis
var. gracilis Boiss.
Thyme, white
Do.
Thyme, wild or creeping
Thymus serpyllum
L.
Triticum (see dog grass).
Tuberose
Polianthes tuberosa
L.
Turmeric
Curcuma longa
L.
Vanilla
Vanilla planifolia
Andr. or
Vanilla tahitensis
J. W. Moore.
Violet flowers
Viola odorata
L.
Violet leaves
Do.
Violet leaves absolute
Do.
Wild cherry bark
Prunus serotina
Ehrh.
Ylang-ylang
Cananga odorata
Hook. f. and Thoms.
Zedoary bark
Curcuma zedoaria
Rosc.
§ 582.30
Natural substances used in conjunction with spices and other natural seasonings and flavorings.
Natural substances used in conjunction with spices and other natural seasonings and flavorings that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use, within the meaning of section 409 of the act, are as follows:
Common name
Botanical name of plant source
Algae, brown (kelp)
Laminaria
spp. and
Nereocystis
spp.
Algae, red
Porphyra
spp. and
Rhodymenia palmata
(L.) Grev.
Dulse
Rhodymenia palmata
(L.)
§ 582.40
Natural extractives (solvent-free) used in conjunction with spices, seasonings, and flavorings.
Natural extractives (solvent-free) used in conjunction with spices, seasonings, and flavorings that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use, within the meaning of section 409 of the act, are as follows:
Common name
Botanical name of plant source
Algae, brown
Laminaria
spp. and
Nereocystis
spp.
Algae, red
Porphyra
spp. and
Rhodymenia palmata
(L.) Grev.
Apricot kernel (persic oil)
Prunus armeniaca
L.
Dulse
Rhodymenia palmata
(L.) Grev.
Kelp (see algae, brown).
Peach kernel (persic oil)
Prunus persica
Sieb. et Zucc.
Peanut stearine
Arachis hypogaea
L.
Persic oil (see apricot kernel and peach kernel).
Quince seed
Cydonia oblonga
Miller.
§ 582.50
Certain other spices, seasonings, essential oils, oleoresins, and natural extracts.
Certain other spices, seasonings, essential oils, oleoresins, and natural extracts that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use, within the meaning of section 409 of the act, are as follows:
Common name
Derivation
Ambergris
Physeter macrocephalus
L.
Castoreum
Castor fiber L. and C.
canadensis
Kuhl.
Civet (zibeth, zibet, zibetum)
Civet cats,
Viverra civetta
Schreber and
Viverra zibetha
Schreber.
Cognac oil, white and green
Ethyl oenanthate,
so-called.
Musk (Tonquin musk)
Musk deer,
Moschus moschiferus
L.
§ 582.60
Synthetic flavoring substances and adjuvants.
Synthetic flavoring substances and adjuvants that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use, within the meaning of section 409 of the act, are as follows:
Acetaldehyde (ethanal).
Acetoin (acetyl methylcarbinol).
Aconitic acid (equisetic acid, citridic acid, achilleic acid).
Anethole (parapropenyl anisole).
Benzaldehyde (benzoic aldehyde).
N
-Butyric acid (butanoic acid).
d
- or
l
-Carvone (carvol).
Cinnamaldehyde (cinnamic aldehyde).
Citral (2,6-dimethyloctadien-2,6-
al
-8, geranial, neral).
Decanal (
N
-decylaldhehyde, capraldehyde, capric aldehyde, caprinaldehyde, aldehyde
C
-10).
Diacetyl (2,3-butandeione). Ethyl acetate. Ethyl butyrate.
3-Methyl-3-phenyl glycidic acid ethyl ester (ethyl-methyl-phenyl-glycidate, so-called strawberry aldehyde, C-16 aldehyde).
Ethyl vanillin.
Eugenol.
Geraniol (3,7-dimethyl-2,6 and 3,6-octadien-1-
ol
).
Geranyl acetate (geraniol acetate).
Glycerol (glyceryl) tributyrate (tributyrin, butyrin).
Limonene (
d-, l-, and dl-
).
Linalool (linalol, 3,7-dimethyl-1,6-octadien-3-
ol
).
Linalyl acetate (bergamol).
l
-Malic acid.
Methyl anthranilate (methyl-2-aminobenzoate).
Piperonal (3,4-methylenedioxy-benzaldehyde, heliotropin).
Vanillin.
§ 582.80
Trace minerals added to animal feeds.
These substances added to animal feeds as nutritional dietary supplements are generally recognized as safe when added at levels consistent with good feeding practice.
1
1
All substances listed may be in anhydrous or hydrated form.
Element
Source compounds
Cobalt
Cobalt acetate.
Cobalt carbonate.
Cobalt chloride.
Cobalt oxide.
Cobalt sulfate.
Copper
Copper carbonate.
Copper chloride.
Copper gluconate.
Copper hydroxide.
Copper orthophosphate.
Copper oxide.
Copper pyrophosphate.
Copper sulfate.
Iodine
Calcium iodate.
Calcium iodobehenate.
Cuprous iodide.
3,5-Diiodosalicylic acid.
Ethylenediamine dihydroiodide.
Potassium iodate.
Potassium iodide.
Sodium iodate.
Sodium iodide.
Thymol iodide.
Iron
Iron ammonium citrate.
Iron carbonate.
Iron chloride.
Iron gluconate.
Iron oxide.
Iron phosphate.
Iron pyrophosphate.
Iron sulfate.
Reduced iron.
Manganese
Manganese acetate.
Manganese carbonate.
Manganese citrate (soluble).
Manganese chloride.
Manganese gluconate.
Manganese orthophosphate.
Manganese phosphate (dibasic).
Manganese sulfate.
Manganous oxide.
Zinc
Zinc acetate.
Zinc carbonate.
Zinc chloride.
Zinc oxide.
Zinc sulfate.
§ 582.99
Adjuvants for pesticide chemicals.
Adjuvants, identified and used in accordance with 40 CFR 180.910 and 180.920, which are added to pesticide use dilutions by a grower or applicator prior to application to the raw agricultural commodity, are exempt from the requirement of tolerances under section 409 of the act.
[85 FR 72908, Nov. 16, 2020]

# Subpart B—General Purpose Food Additives
§ 582.1005
Acetic acid.
(a)
Product.
Acetic acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1009
Adipic acid.
(a)
Product.
Adipic acid.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used as a buffer and neutralizing agent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1033
Citric acid.
(a)
Product.
Citric acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1057
Hydrochloric acid.
(a)
Product.
Hydrochloric acid.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used as a buffer and neutralizing agent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1061
Lactic acid.
(a)
Product.
Lactic acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1069
Malic acid.
(a)
Product.
Malic acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1073
Phosphoric acid.
(a)
Product.
Phosphoric acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1077
Potassium acid tartrate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium acid tartrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1087
Sodium acid pyrophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium acid pyrophosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1091
Succinic acid.
(a)
Product.
Succinic acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1095
Sulfuric acid.
(a)
Product.
Sulfuric acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1099
Tartaric acid.
(a)
Product.
Tartaric acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1125
Aluminum sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Aluminum sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1127
Aluminum ammonium sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Aluminum ammonium sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1129
Aluminum potassium sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Aluminum potassium sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1131
Aluminum sodium sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Aluminum sodium sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1135
Ammonium bicarbonate.
(a)
Product.
Ammonium bicarbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1137
Ammonium carbonate.
(a)
Product.
Ammonium carbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1139
Ammonium hydroxide.
(a)
Product.
Ammonium hydroxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1141
Ammonium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Ammonium phosphate (mono- and dibasic).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1143
Ammonium sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Ammonium sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1155
Bentonite.
(a)
Product.
Bentonite.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1165
Butane.
(a)
Product.
Butane.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1191
Calcium carbonate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium carbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1193
Calcium chloride.
(a)
Product.
Calcium chloride.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1195
Calcium citrate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1199
Calcium gluconate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium gluconate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1205
Calcium hydroxide.
(a)
Product.
Calcium hydroxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1207
Calcium lactate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium lactate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1210
Calcium oxide.
(a)
Product.
Calcium oxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1217
Calcium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium phosphate (mono-, di-, and tribasic).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1235
Caramel.
(a)
Product.
Caramel.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1240
Carbon dioxide.
(a)
Product.
Carbon dioxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1275
Dextrans.
(a)
Product.
Dextrans of average molecular weight below 100,000.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1320
Glycerin.
(a)
Product.
Glycerin.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1324
Glyceryl monostearate.
(a)
Product.
Glyceryl monostearate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1355
Helium.
(a)
Product.
Helium.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1366
Hydrogen peroxide.
(a)
Product.
Hydrogen peroxide.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used as a bleaching agent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1400
Lecithin.
(a)
Product.
Lecithin.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1425
Magnesium carbonate.
(a)
Product.
Magnesium carbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1428
Magnesium hydroxide.
(a)
Product.
Magnesium hydroxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1431
Magnesium oxide.
(a)
Product.
Magnesium oxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1480
Methylcellulose.
(a)
Product.
U.S.P. methylcellulose, except that the methoxy content shall not be less than 27.5 percent and not more than 31.5 percent on a dry-weight basis.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1500
Monoammonium glutamate.
(a)
Product.
Monoammonium glutamate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1516
Monopotassium glutamate.
(a)
Product.
Monopotassium glutamate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1540
Nitrogen.
(a)
Product.
Nitrogen.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1585
Papain.
(a)
Product.
Papain.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1613
Potassium bicarbonate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium bicarbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1619
Potassium carbonate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium carbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1625
Potassium citrate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1631
Potassium hydroxide.
(a)
Product.
Potassium hydroxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1643
Potassium sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1655
Propane.
(a)
Product.
Propane.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1666
Propylene glycol.
(a)
Product.
Propylene glycol.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe (except in cat food) when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
[41 FR 38657, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 61 FR 19544, May 2, 1996]
§ 582.1685
Rennet.
(a)
Product.
Rennet (rennin).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1711
Silica aerogel.
(a)
Product.
Silica aerogel as a finely powdered microcellular silica foam having a minimum silica content of 89.5 percent.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used as a component of antifoaming agents in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1721
Sodium acetate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium acetate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1736
Sodium bicarbonate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium bicarbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1742
Sodium carbonate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium carbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1745
Sodium carboxymethylcellulose.
(a)
Product.
Sodium carboxymethyl- cellulose is the sodium salt of carboxymethylcellulose not less than 99.5 percent on a dry-weight basis, with maximum substitution of 0.95 carboxymethyl groups per anhydroglucose unit, and with a minimum viscosity of 25 centipoises for 2 percent by weight aqueous solution at 25 °C.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1748
Sodium caseinate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium caseinate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1751
Sodium citrate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1763
Sodium hydroxide.
(a)
Product.
Sodium hydroxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1775
Sodium pectinate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium pectinate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1778
Sodium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium phosphate (mono-, di-, and tribasic).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1781
Sodium aluminum phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium aluminum phosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1792
Sodium sesquicarbonate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium sesquicarbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when
used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1804
Sodium potassium tartrate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium potassium tartrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1810
Sodium tripolyphosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium tripolyphosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1901
Triacetin.
(a)
Product.
Triacetin (glyceryl triacetate).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1973
Beeswax.
(a)
Product.
Beeswax (yellow wax).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1975
Bleached beeswax.
(a)
Product.
Bleached beeswax (white wax).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.1978
Carnauba wax.
(a)
Product.
Carnauba wax.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.

# Subpart C—Anticaking Agents
§ 582.2122
Aluminum calcium silicate.
(a)
Product.
Aluminum calcium silicate.
(b)
Tolerance.
2 percent.
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in table salt in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.2227
Calcium silicate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium silicate.
(b)
Tolerance.
2 percent and 5 percent.
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used at levels not exceeding 2 percent in table salt and 5 percent in baking powder in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.2437
Magnesium silicate.
(a)
Product.
Magnesium silicate.
(b)
Tolerance.
2 percent.
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in table salt in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.2727
Sodium aluminosilicate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium aluminosilicate (sodium silicoaluminate).
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 2 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.2729
Hydrated sodium calcium aluminosilicate.
(a)
Product.
Hydrated sodium calcium aluminosilicate (sodium calcium silicoaluminate).
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 2 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.2906
Tricalcium silicate.
(a)
Product.
Tricalcium silicate.
(b)
Tolerance.
2 percent.
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in table salt in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.

# Subpart D—Chemical Preservatives
§ 582.3013
Ascorbic acid.
(a)
Product.
Ascorbic acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3021
Benzoic acid.
(a)
Product.
Benzoic acid.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 0.1 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3041
Erythorbic acid.
(a)
Product.
Erythorbic acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3081
Propionic acid.
(a)
Product.
Propionic acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3089
Sorbic acid.
(a)
Product.
Sorbic acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3109
Thiodipropionic acid.
(a)
Product.
Thiodipropionic acid.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use in food when the total content of antioxidants is not over 0.02 percent of fat or oil content including essential (volatile) oil content of the food, provided the substance is used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3149
Ascorbyl palmitate.
(a)
Product.
Ascorbyl palmitate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3169
Butylated hydroxyanisole.
(a)
Product.
Butylated hydroxyanisole.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use in food when the total content of antioxidants is not over 0.02 percent of fat or oil content, including essential (volatile) oil content of food provided the substance is used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3173
Butylated hydroxytoluene.
(a)
Product.
Butylated hydroxytol- uene.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use in food when the total content of antioxidants is not over 0.02 percent of fat or oil content, including essential (volatile) oil content of food provided the substance is used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3189
Calcium ascorbate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium ascorbate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3221
Calcium propionate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium propionate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3225
Calcium sorbate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium sorbate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3280
Dilauryl thiodipropionate.
(a)
Product.
Dilauryl thiodipropionate.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use in food when the total content of antioxidants is not over 0.02 percent of fat or oil content, including essential (volatile) oil content of the food, provided the substance is used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3336
Gum guaiac.
(a)
Product.
Gum guaiac.
(b)
Tolerance.
0.1 percent (equivalent antioxidant activity 0.01 percent).
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in edible fats
or oils in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3490
Methylparaben.
(a)
Product.
Methylparaben (methyl
p
-hydroxybenzoate).
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 0.1 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3616
Potassium bisulfite.
(a)
Product.
Potassium bisulfite.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice, except that it is not used in meats or in food recognized as source of vitamin B
1
.
§ 582.3637
Potassium metabisulfite.
(a)
Product.
Potassium metabisulfite.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice, except that it is not used in meats or in food recognized as source of vitamin B
1
.
§ 582.3640
Potassium sorbate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium sorbate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3660
Propyl gallate.
(a)
Product.
Propyl gallate.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use in food when the total content of antioxidants is not over 0.02 percent of fat or oil content, including essential (volatile) oil content of the food, provided the substance is used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3670
Propylparaben.
(a)
Product.
Propylparaben (propyl
p
-hydroxybenzoate).
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 0.1 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3731
Sodium ascorbate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium ascorbate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3733
Sodium benzoate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium benzoate.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 0.1 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3739
Sodium bisulfite.
(a)
Product.
Sodium bisulfite.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice, except that it is not used in meats or in food recognized as source of vitamin B
1
.
§ 582.3766
Sodium metabisulfite.
(a)
Product.
Sodium metabisulfite.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice, except that it is not used in meats or in food recognized as source of vitamin B
1
.
§ 582.3784
Sodium propionate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium propionate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3795
Sodium sorbate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium sorbate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3798
Sodium sulfite.
(a)
Product.
Sodium sulfite.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice, except that it is not used in meats or in food recognized as source of vitamin B
1
.
§ 582.3845
Stannous chloride.
(a)
Product.
Stannous chloride.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 0.0015 percent calculated as tin in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.3862
Sulfur dioxide.
(a)
Product.
Sulfur dioxide.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice, except that it is not used in meats or in food recognized as source of vitamin B
1
.
§ 582.3890
Tocopherols.
(a)
Product.
Tocopherols.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.

# Subpart E—Emulsifying Agents
§ 582.4101
Diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming fatty acids.
(a)
Product.
Diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming fatty acids.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.4505
Mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming acids.
(a)
Product.
Mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming acids.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.4521
Monosodium phosphate derivatives of mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming fatty acids.
(a)
Product.
Monosodium phosphate derivatives of mono- and diglycerides of edible fats or oils, or edible fat-forming fatty acids.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.4666
Propylene glycol.
(a)
Product.
Propylene glycol.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.

# Subpart F—Nutrients and/or Dietary Supplements
1
§ 582.5013
Ascorbic acid.
(a)
Product.
Ascorbic acid.
1
Amino acids listed in this subpart may be free hydrochloride salt, hydrated, or anhydrous form, where applicable.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5017
Aspartic acid.
(a)
Product.
Aspartic acid (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5049
Aminoacetic acid.
(a)
Product.
Glycine (aminoacetic acid).
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in animal feeds in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5065
Linoleic acid.
(a)
Product.
Linoleic acid prepared from edible fats and oils and free from chick-edema factor.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when
used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5118
Alanine.
(a)
Product.
Alanine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5145
Arginine.
(a)
Product.
Arginine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5159
Biotin.
(a)
Product.
Biotin.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5191
Calcium carbonate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium carbonate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5195
Calcium citrate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5201
Calcium glycerophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium glycerophosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5210
Calcium oxide.
(a)
Product.
Calcium oxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5212
Calcium pantothenate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium pantothenate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5217
Calcium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium phosphate (mono-, di-, and tribasic).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5223
Calcium pyrophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium pyrophosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5230
Calcium sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5245
Carotene.
(a)
Product.
Carotene.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5250
Choline bitartrate.
(a)
Product.
Choline bitartrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5252
Choline chloride.
(a)
Product.
Choline chloride.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5260
Copper gluconate.
(a)
Product.
Copper gluconate.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 0.005 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5271
Cysteine.
(a)
Product.
Cysteine (L-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5273
Cystine.
(a)
Product.
Cystine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5301
Ferric phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Ferric phosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5304
Ferric pyrophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Ferric pyrophosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5306
Ferric sodium pyrophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Ferric sodium pyrophosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5308
Ferrous gluconate.
(a)
Product.
Ferrous gluconate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5311
Ferrous lactate.
(a)
Product.
Ferrous lactate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5315
Ferrous sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Ferrous sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5361
Histidine.
(a)
Product.
Histidine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5370
Inositol.
(a)
Product.
Inositol.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5375
Iron reduced.
(a)
Product.
Iron reduced.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5381
Isoleucine.
(a)
Product.
Isoleucine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5406
Leucine.
(a)
Product.
Leucine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5411
Lysine.
(a)
Product.
Lysine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5431
Magnesium oxide.
(a)
Product.
Magnesium oxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5434
Magnesium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Magnesium phosphate (di- and tribasic).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when
used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5443
Magnesium sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Magnesium sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5446
Manganese chloride.
(a)
Product.
Manganese chloride.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5449
Manganese citrate.
(a)
Product.
Manganese citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5452
Manganese gluconate.
(a)
Product.
Manganese gluconate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5455
Manganese glycerophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Manganese glycerophosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5458
Manganese hypophosphite.
(a)
Product.
Manganese hypophosphite.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5461
Manganese sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Manganese sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5464
Manganous oxide.
(a)
Product.
Manganous oxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5470
Mannitol.
(a)
Product.
Mannitol.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5475
Methionine.
(a)
Product.
Methionine.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in animal feeds in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5477
Methionine hydroxy analog and its calcium salts.
(a)
Product.
Methionine hydroxy analog and its calcium salts.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in animal feeds in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5530
Niacin.
(a)
Product.
Niacin.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5535
Niacinamide.
(a)
Product.
Niacinamide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5580
D-Pantothenyl alcohol.
(a)
Product.
D-Pantothenyl alcohol.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5590
Phenylalanine.
(a)
Product.
Phenylalanine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5622
Potassium chloride.
(a)
Product.
Potassium chloride.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5628
Potassium glycerophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium glycerophosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5634
Potassium iodide.
(a)
Product.
Potassium iodide.
(b)
Tolerance.
0.01 percent.
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in table salt as a source of dietary iodine in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5650
Proline.
(a)
Product.
Proline (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5676
Pyridoxine hydrochloride.
(a)
Product.
Pyridoxine hydrochloride.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5695
Riboflavin.
(a)
Product.
Riboflavin.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5697
Riboflavin-5-phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Riboflavin-5-phosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5701
Serine.
(a)
Product.
Serine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5772
Sodium pantothenate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium pantothenate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5778
Sodium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium phosphate (mono-, di-, and tribasic).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5835
Sorbitol.
(a)
Product.
Sorbitol.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5875
Thiamine hydrochloride.
(a)
Product.
Thiamine hydrochloride.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5878
Thiamine mononitrate.
(a)
Product.
Thiamine mononitrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5881
Threonine.
(a)
Product.
Threonine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5890
Tocopherols.
(a)
Product.
Tocopherols.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5892
a
-Tocopherol acetate.
(a)
Product. a
-Tocopherol acetate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5915
Tryptophane.
(a)
Product.
Tryptophane (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5920
Tyrosine.
(a)
Product.
Tyrosine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5925
Valine.
(a)
Product.
Valine (L- and DL-forms).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5930
Vitamin A.
(a)
Product.
Vitamin A.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5933
Vitamin A acetate.
(a)
Product.
Vitamin A acetate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5936
Vitamin A palmitate.
(a)
Product.
Vitamin A palmitate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5945
Vitamin B
12
.
(a)
Product.
Vitamin B
12
.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5950
Vitamin D
2
.
(a)
Product.
Vitamin D
2
.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5953
Vitamin D
3
.
(a)
Product.
Vitamin D
3
.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5985
Zinc chloride.
(a)
Product.
Zinc chloride.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5988
Zinc gluconate.
(a)
Product.
Zinc gluconate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5991
Zinc oxide.
(a)
Product.
Zinc oxide.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5994
Zinc stearate.
(a)
Product.
Zinc stearate prepared from stearic acid free from chick-edema factor.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.5997
Zinc sulfate.
(a)
Product.
Zinc sulfate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.

# Subpart G—Sequestrants
2
§ 582.6033
Citric acid.
(a)
Product.
Citric acid.
2
For the purpose of this subpart, no attempt has been made to designate those
sequestrants that may also function as chemical preservatives.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6085
Sodium acid phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium acid phosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6099
Tartaric acid.
(a)
Product.
Tartaric acid.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6185
Calcium acetate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium acetate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6193
Calcium chloride.
(a)
Product.
Calcium chloride.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6195
Calcium citrate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6197
Calcium diacetate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium diacetate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6199
Calcium gluconate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium gluconate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6203
Calcium hexametaphosphate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium hexametaphosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6215
Monobasic calcium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Monobasic calcium phosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6219
Calcium phytate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium phytate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6285
Dipotassium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Dipotassium phosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6290
Disodium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Disodium phosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6386
Isopropyl citrate.
(a)
Product.
Isopropyl citrate.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 0.02 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6511
Monoisopropyl citrate.
(a)
Product.
Monoisopropyl citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6625
Potassium citrate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when
used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
[41 FR 38657, Sept. 10, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 14091, Mar. 15, 1977]
§ 582.6751
Sodium citrate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium citrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
[41 FR 38657, Sept. 10, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 14091, Mar. 15, 1977]
§ 582.6754
Sodium diacetate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium diacetate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6757
Sodium gluconate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium gluconate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6760
Sodium hexametaphosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium hexametaphosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6769
Sodium metaphosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium metaphosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6778
Sodium phosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium phosphate (mono-, di-, and tribasic).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6787
Sodium pyrophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium pyrophosphate.
(b)
Condition of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6789
Tetra sodium pyrophosphate.
(a)
Product.
Tetra sodium pyrophosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6801
Sodium tartrate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium tartrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6804
Sodium potassium tartrate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium potassium tartrate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6807
Sodium thiosulfate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium thiosulfate.
(b)
Tolerance.
0.1 percent.
(c)
Limitations, restrictions, or explanation.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in salt in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6810
Sodium tripolyphosphate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium tripolyphosphate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.6851
Stearyl citrate.
(a)
Product.
Stearyl citrate.
(b)
Tolerance.
This substance is generally recognized as safe for use at a level not exceeding 0.15 percent in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.

# Subpart H—Stabilizers
§ 582.7115
Agar-agar.
(a)
Product.
Agar-agar.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7133
Ammonium alginate.
(a)
Product.
Ammonium alginate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7187
Calcium alginate.
(a)
Product.
Calcium alginate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7255
Chondrus extract.
(a)
Product.
Chondrus extract (carrageenin).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7330
Gum arabic.
(a)
Product.
Acacia (gum arabic).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7333
Gum ghatti.
(a)
Product.
Gum ghatti.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7339
Guar gum.
(a)
Product.
Guar gum.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7343
Locust bean gum.
(a)
Product.
Locust (carob) bean gum.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7349
Sterculia gum.
(a)
Product.
Sterculia gum (karaya gum).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7351
Gum tragacanth.
(a)
Product.
Tragacanth (gum tragacanth).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7610
Potassium alginate.
(a)
Product.
Potassium alginate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
§ 582.7724
Sodium alginate.
(a)
Product.
Sodium alginate.
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practice.
Pt. 584

# PART 584—FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
Sec.
584.200
Ethyl alcohol containing ethyl acetate.
584.700
Hydrophobic silicas.
584.725
25-Hydroxyvitamin D
3
.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 342, 348, 371.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
§ 584.200
Ethyl alcohol containing ethyl acetate.
The feed additive ethyl alcohol containing ethyl acetate meets the requirement of 27 CFR 21.62, being not less than 92.5 percent ethyl alcohol, each 100 gallons having had added the equivalent of 4.25 gallons of 100 percent ethyl acetate. It is used in accordance with good feeding practices in ruminant feed supplements as a source of added energy.
[46 FR 52333, Oct. 27, 1981, as amended at 72 FR 41620, July 31, 2007]
§ 584.700
Hydrophobic silicas.
(a)
Product.
Amorphous fumed hydrophobic silica or precipitated hydrophobic silica (CAS Reg. No. 68611-0944-099, silane, dichlorodimethyl-, reaction products with silica).
(b)
Conditions of use.
An anticaking/free-flow agent in vitamin preparations for animal feed.
(c)
Limitations.
Not to exceed 5 percent in the vitamin preparation. It shall be used in accordance with good manufacturing or feeding practices. It must be of purity suitable for intended use, and it must comply with the following specifications:
(i) Amorphous fumed hydrophobic silica: Not less than 99.0 percent silicon dioxide after ignition. Not more than 3 ppm arsenic. Not more than 0.003 percent heavy metals (as lead). Not more than 10 ppm lead. Not more than 2.5 percent loss on drying. Not more than 2 percent loss on ignition after drying. Not more than 1 percent insoluble substances. Not more than 50 parts per million dichlorodimethylsilane.
(ii) Precipated hydrophobic silica: Not less than 94.0 percent silicon dioxide after ignition. Not more than 3 ppm arsenic. Not more than 0.003 percent heavy metals (as lead). Not more than 10 ppm lead. Not more than 7 percent loss on drying. Not more than 8.5 percent loss on ignition after drying. Not more than 5 percent soluble ionizable salts (as sodium sulfate). Not more than 1 percent insoluble substances. Not more than 50 parts per million dichlorodimethylsilane.
[61 FR 43453, Aug. 23, 1996]
§ 584.725
25-Hydroxyvitamin D
3
.
(a)
Product.
25-Hydroxyvitamin D
3
(9,10-secocholesta-5,7,10(19)-triene-3β, 25-diol).
(b)
Conditions of use.
This substance is generally recognized as safe as a source of vitamin D
3
activity in feed or drinking water of broiler chickens when used in accordance with the limitations in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Limitations.
(1) Not to exceed 69 parts per billion (ppb) in feed or 34.5 ppb in drinking water. It shall be used in accordance with good manufacturing and feeding practices.
(2) The product must comply with the following specifications:
(i) Not less than 94.0 percent 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
.
(ii) Not more than 1 percent of any individual sterol.
(iii) Not more than 5 percent water.
(iv) Not more than 20 parts per million (ppm) lead.
(v) Not more than 20 ppm aluminum.
(vi) Not more than 1.0 percent solvents and non-detectable levels of 2′. 4′. 5′. 7′-tetraiodofluorescin.
(3) Product labeling shall bear the following:
(i) A statement to indicate that the maximum use level of 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
must not exceed 69 ppb in feed or 34.5 ppb in drinking water.
(ii) Adequate use directions to ensure that 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
(and all premixes) is uniformly blended throughout the feed or drinking water.
(iii) An expiration date on all premix labeling.
(iv) A statement on all premix labeling (feed and drinking water forms) that 25-hydroxyvitamin D
3
should not be used simultaneously in both feed and water.
[72 FR 12564, Mar. 16, 2007]
Pt. 589

# PART 589—SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED FROM USE IN ANIMAL FOOD OR FEED

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
589.1
Substances prohibited from use in animal food or feed.

# Subpart B—Listing of Specific Substances Prohibited From Use in Animal Food or Feed
589.1000
Gentian violet.
589.1001
Propylene glycol in or on cat food.
589.2000
Animal proteins prohibited in ruminant feed.
589.2001
Cattle materials prohibited in animal food or feed to prevent the transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321, 342, 343, 348, 371.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 589.1
Substances prohibited from use in animal food or feed.
(a) The substances listed in this part have been prohibited from use in animal food or feed by the Food and Drug Administration because of a determination that they present a potential risk to the public health or have not been shown by adequate scientific data to be safe for use in such food or feed. Use of any of these substances in violation of this part causes the animal food or feed involved to be adulterated and in violation of the Act.
(b) This part includes only a partial list of substances prohibited from use in animal food or feed; it is for easy reference purposes and is not a complete list of substances that may not lawfully be used in such animal food or feed. No substance may be used in animal food or feed unless it meets all applicable requirements of the Act.
(c) The Food and Drug Administration either on its own initiative or on behalf of any interested person who has submitted a petition, may publish a proposal to establish, amend, or repeal a regulation under this part on the basis of new scientific evaluation or information. Any such petition shall include an adequate scientific basis to support the petition, shall be the form set forth in § 571.1 of this chapter, and will be published in the
Federal Register
for comment if it contains reasonable ground.
[45 FR 28319, Apr. 29, 1980]

# Subpart B—Listing of Specific Substances Prohibited From Use in Animal Food or Feed
§ 589.1000
Gentian violet.
The Food and Drug Administration has determined that gentian violet has not been shown by adequate scientific data to be safe for use in animal feed. Use of gentian violet in animal feed causes the feed to be adulterated and in violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act), in the absence of a regulation providing for its safe use as a food additive under section 409 of the act, unless it is subject to an effective notice of claimed investigational exemption for a food additive under § 570.17 of this chapter, or unless the substance is intended for use as a new animal drug and is subject to an approved application under section 512 of the act, or an index listing under section 572 of the act, or an effective notice of claimed investigational exemption for a new animal drug under part 511 of this chapter or § 516.125 of this chapter.
[72 FR 69131, Dec. 6, 2007]
§ 589.1001
Propylene glycol in or on cat food.
The Food and Drug Administration has determined that propylene glycol in or on cat food has not been shown by adequate scientific data to be safe for use. Use of propylene glycol in or on cat food causes the feed to be adulterated and in violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act), in the absence of a regulation providing for its safe use as a food additive under section 409 of the act, unless it is subject to an effective notice of claimed investigational exemption for a food additive under § 570.17 of this chapter, or unless the substance is intended for use as a new animal drug and is subject to an approved application under section 512 of the act or an effective notice of claimed investigational exemption for a new animal drug under part 511 of this chapter.
[61 FR 19544, May 2, 1996]
§ 589.2000
Animal proteins prohibited in ruminant feed.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Protein derived from mammalian tissues
means any protein-containing portion of mammalian animals, excluding: Blood and blood products; gelatin; tallow containing no more than 0.15 percent insoluble impurities and tallow derivatives as specified in § 589.2001; inspected meat products which have been cooked and offered for human food and further heat processed for feed (such as plate waste and used cellulosic food casings); milk products (milk and milk proteins); and any product whose only mammalian protein consists entirely of porcine or equine protein.
(2)
Renderer
means any firm or individual that processes slaughter byproducts, animals unfit for human consumption, or meat scraps. The term includes persons who collect such materials and subject them to minimal processing, or distribute them to firms other than renderers (as defined here) whose intended use for the products may include animal feed. The term includes renderers that also blend animal protein products.
(3)
Blender
means any firm or individual which obtains processed animal protein from more than one source or from more than one species, and subsequently mixes (blends) or redistributes an animal protein product.
(4)
Feed manufacturer
includes manufacturers of complete and intermediate feeds intended for animals, and includes on-farm in addition to off-farm feed manufacturing and mixing operations.
(5)
Nonmammalian protein
includes proteins from nonmammalian animals.
(6)
Distributor
includes persons who distribute or transport feeds or feed ingredients intended for animals.
(7)
Ruminant
includes any member of the order of animals which has a stomach with four chambers (rumen, reticulum, omasum, and abomasum) through which feed passes in digestion. The order includes, but is not limited to, cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats, deer, elk, and antelopes.
(b)
Food additive status.
The Food and Drug Administration has determined that protein derived from mammalian tissues for use in ruminant feed is a food additive subject to section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act). The use or intended use in ruminant feed of any material that contains protein derived from mammalian tissues causes the feed to be adulterated and in violation of the act, unless it is the subject of an effective notice of claimed investigational exemption for a food additive under § 570.17 of this chapter.
(c)
Requirements for renderers that are not included in paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) Renderers that manufacture products that contain or may contain protein derived from mammalian tissues and that are intended for use in animal feed shall take the following measures to ensure that materials identified in paragraph (b) of this section are not used in the feed of ruminants:
(i) Label the materials as follows: “Do not feed to cattle or other ruminants”; and
(ii) Maintain records sufficient to track the materials throughout their receipt, processing, and distribution, and make the copies available for inspection and copying by the Food and Drug Administration.
(2) Renderers described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be exempted from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section if they:
(i) Use exclusively a manufacturing method that has been validated by the Food and Drug Administration to deactivate the agent that causes transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) and whose design has been made available to the public;
(ii) Use routinely a test method that has been validated by the Food and Drug Administration to detect the presence of the agent that causes TSE's and whose design has been made available to the public. Renderers whose products test positive for agents that cause TSE's must comply with paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section. Records of the test results shall be made available for inspection by the Food and Drug Administration; or
(iii) Use exclusively a method for controlling the manufacturing process that minimizes the risk of the TSE agent entering the product and whose design has been made available to the public and validated by the Food and Drug Administration.
(3) Renderers described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be exempted from the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section if they use a permanent method, approved by FDA, to make a mark indicating that the product contains or may contain protein derived from mammalian tissue. If the marking is by the use of an agent that cannot be detected on visual inspection, the renderer must use an agent whose presence can be detected by a method that has been validated by the Food and Drug Administration and
whose design has been made available to the public.
(4) Renderers shall comply with all applicable requirements under § 589.2001.
(d)
Requirements for protein blenders, feed manufacturers, and distributors that are not included in paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) Protein blenders, feed manufacturers, and distributors that manufacture, blend, process, and distribute products that contain or may contain protein derived from mammalian tissues shall comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(2) Protein blenders, feed manufacturers, and distributors, shall be exempt from paragraphs (d)(1) of this section if they:
(i) Purchase animal products from renderers that certified compliance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section or purchase such materials from parties that certify that the materials were purchased from renderers that certified compliance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section; or
(ii) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section where appropriate.
(3) Protein blenders, feed manufacturers, and distributors, shall be exempt from paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section if they:
(i) Purchase animal protein products that are marked in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section or purchase such materials from renderers that certified compliance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section, or purchase such materials from parties that certify that the materials were purchased from renderers that certified compliance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section; or
(ii) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section where appropriate.
(4) Pet food products that are sold or are intended for sale at retail and feeds for nonruminant laboratory animals are exempt from the labeling requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. However, if the pet food products or feeds for nonruminant laboratory animals are sold or are intended for sale as distressed or salvage items, then such products shall be labeled in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, as appropriate.
(5) Copies of certifications as described in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, shall be made available for inspection and copying by the Food and Drug Administration.
(e)
Requirements for persons that intend to separate mammalian and nonmammalian materials.
(1) Renderers, protein blenders, feed manufacturers, distributors, and others that manufacture, process, blend and distribute both products that contain or may contain protein derived from mammalian tissues or feeds containing such products, and protein products from other animal tissues or feeds containing such products, and that intend to keep those products separate shall:
(i) Comply with paragraphs (c)(1) or (d)(1) of this section as appropriate except that the labeling requirement shall apply only to products that contain or may contain protein derived from mammalian tissues or feeds containing such products;
(ii) In the case of a renderer, obtain nonmammalian or pure porcine or pure equine materials only from single-species slaughter facilities;
(iii) Provide for measures to avoid commingling or cross-contamination;
(A) Maintain separate equipment or facilities for the manufacture, processing, or blending of such materials; or
(B) Use clean-out procedures or other means adequate to prevent carry-over of products that contain or may contain protein derived from mammalian tissues into animal protein or feeds that may be used for ruminants; and
(iv) Maintain written procedures specifying the clean-out procedures or other means, and specifying the procedures for separating products that contain or may contain protein derived from mammalian tissue from all other protein products from the time of receipt until the time of shipment.
(2) Renderers, blenders, feed manufacturers, and distributors will be exempted from applicable requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, if they meet the criteria for exemption under paragraphs (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section, and (d)(2) or (d)(3) of this section.
(3) Renderers shall comply with all applicable requirements under § 589.2001.
(f)
Requirements for establishments and individuals that are responsible for feeding ruminant animals.
Establishments and individuals that are responsible for feeding ruminant animals shall maintain copies of purchase invoices and labeling for all feeds containing animal protein products received, and make the copies available for inspection and copying by the Food and Drug Administration.
(g)
Adulteration and misbranding.
(1) Animal protein products, and feeds containing such products, that are not in compliance with paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, excluding labeling requirements, will be deemed adulterated under section 402(a)(2)(C) or 402(a)(4) of the act.
(2) Animal protein products, and feeds containing such products, that are not in compliance with the labeling requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section will be deemed misbranded under section 403(a)(1) or 403(f) of the act.
(h)
Inspection; records retention.
(1) Records that are to be made available for inspection and copying, as required by this section, shall be kept for a minimum of 1 year.
(2) Written procedures required by this section shall be made available for inspection and copying by the Food and Drug Administration.
[62 FR 30976, June 5, 1997, as amended at 73 FR 22756, Apr. 25, 2008]

# Effective Date Note:
At 62 FR 30976, June 5, 1997, § 589.2000 was added. Paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section contains information collection and recordkeeping requirements and will not become effective until approval has been given by the Office of Management and Budget.
§ 589.2001
Cattle materials prohibited in animal food or feed to prevent the transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to prohibit the use of certain cattle origin materials in the food or feed of all animals to further reduce the risk of the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) within the United States.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Cattle materials prohibited in animal feed
include:
(i) The entire carcass of BSE-positive cattle;
(ii) The brains and spinal cords of cattle 30 months of age and older;
(iii) The entire carcass of cattle not inspected and passed for human consumption as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that are 30 months of age or older from which brains and spinal cords were not effectively removed or otherwise effectively excluded from animal feed;
(iv) Mechanically separated beef as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section that is derived from materials specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), and (b)(1)(iii) of this section; and
(v) Tallow as defined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section that is derived from materials specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), and (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(vi) Cattle materials prohibited in animal feed do not include:
(A) Tallow derivatives as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section;
(B) Tallow as defined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section that is derived from materials specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iii) of this section and that contains no more than 0.15 percent insoluble impurities. Insoluble impurities must be measured by the method entitled “Insoluble Impurities” (AOCS Method Ca 3a-46), American Oil Chemists' Society (AOCS), 5th Edition, 1997, incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51, or another method equivalent in accuracy, precision, and sensitivity to AOCS Official Method Ca 3a-46. You may obtain copies of the method from the AOCS (
http://www.aocs.org
), 2211 W. Bradley Ave., Champaign, IL 61821. Copies may be examined at the Food and Drug Administration's Main Library, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 2, Third Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20993, 301-796-2039, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(C) Materials as defined in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(iii), (b)(1)(iv) (other than mechanically separated beef from the carcass of a BSE-positive cattle), and (b)(1)(v) of this section from cattle from a country that has been designated under paragraph (f) of this section.
(2)
Cattle not inspected and passed for human consumption
means cattle that did not pass antemortem inspection by the appropriate regulatory authority. This term includes nonambulatory disabled cattle. Nonambulatory disabled cattle are cattle that cannot rise from a recumbent position or that cannot walk, including, but not limited to, those with broken appendages, severed tendons or ligaments, nerve paralysis, fractured vertebral column, or metabolic conditions.
(3)
Mechanically separated beef
means a finely comminuted meat food product, resulting from the mechanical separation and removal of most of the bone from attached skeletal muscle of cattle carcasses and parts of carcasses.
(4)
Renderer
means any firm or individual that processes slaughter byproducts, animals unfit for human consumption, or meat scraps. The term includes persons who collect such materials and subject them to minimal processing, or distribute them to firms other than renderers (as defined in this paragraph) whose intended use for the products may include animal feed, industrial use, or other uses. The term includes renderers that also blend animal protein products.
(5)
Tallow
means the rendered fat of cattle obtained by pressing or by applying any other extraction process to tissues derived directly from discrete adipose tissue masses or to other carcass parts and tissues.
(6)
Tallow derivative
means any product obtained through initial hydrolysis, saponification, or trans-esterification of tallow; chemical conversion of material obtained by hydrolysis, saponification, or trans-esterification may be applied to obtain the desired product.
(c)
Requirements.
(1) No animal feed or feed ingredient shall be manufactured from, processed with, or otherwise contain, cattle materials prohibited in animal feed as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2) Renderers that receive, manufacture, process, blend, or distribute cattle materials prohibited in animal feed as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or products that contain or may contain cattle materials prohibited in animal feed, shall take the following measures to ensure that materials prohibited as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are not introduced into animal feed:
(i) Exclude from use in animal feed the entire carcass of cattle not inspected and passed for human consumption as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section if:
(A) The brain and spinal cord are not effectively removed from such cattle or the brain and spinal cord from such cattle are not otherwise effectively excluded from animal feed; and
(B) Such cattle are 30 months of age or older.
(ii) If renderers remove brain and spinal cord from cattle not inspected and passed for human consumption, or separate such animals based on whether or not they are 30 months of age or older, renderers must maintain adequate written procedures specifying how these processes are carried out.
(iii) Once cattle materials prohibited in animal feed have been separated from other cattle materials, provide for measures to avoid cross-contamination;
(A) Use separate equipment while handling cattle materials prohibited in animal feed; or
(B) Use separate containers that adequately prevent contact with animal feed, animal feed ingredients, or equipment surfaces;
(iv) Label the cattle materials prohibited in animal feed and products that contain or may contain cattle materials prohibited in animal feed in a conspicuous manner as follows: “Do not feed to animals”;
(v) Mark the cattle materials prohibited in animal feed and products that contain or may contain cattle materials prohibited in animal feed with an agent that can be readily detected on visual inspection; and
(vi) Establish and maintain records sufficient to track cattle materials
prohibited in animal feed to ensure such material is not introduced into animal feed, and make the records available for inspection and copying by the Food and Drug Administration.
(3) Renderers that receive, manufacture, process, blend, or distribute any cattle materials shall take the following measures to ensure that materials prohibited as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are not used in animal feed:
(i) Establish and maintain records sufficient to demonstrate that material rendered for use in animal feed was not manufactured from, processed with, or does not otherwise contain, cattle materials prohibited in animal feed and make copies of all records available for inspection and copying by the Food and Drug Administration. With respect to cattle materials obtained from establishments which have segregated cattle materials prohibited in animal feed, such records must demonstrate that establishments supplying cattle materials to the renderers have adequate procedures in place to effectively exclude cattle materials prohibited in animal feed; and these records shall be considered sufficient to meet this requirement if they include either:
(A) Certification or other documentation from the supplier that material supplied to the renderer does not include cattle materials prohibited in animal feed; such certification or documentation is acceptable, provided that it includes a description of the segregation procedures used, documentation that the supplier confirms that its segregation procedures are in place prior to supplying any cattle material to the renderer, and records of the renderer's periodic review of the suppliers' certification or other documentation; or
(B) Documentation of another method acceptable to FDA, such as third-party certification, for verifying that suppliers have effectively excluded cattle materials prohibited in animal feed.
(ii) Comply with all applicable requirements under § 589.2000 regarding animal proteins prohibited in ruminant feed.
(d)
Adulteration and misbranding.
(1) Failure of a renderer to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii), (c)(2)(v) and (c)(2)(vi), or (c)(3)(i) of this section will render the animal feed or feed ingredients adulterated under section 402(a)(4) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act).
(2) Animal feed or feed ingredients that are not in compliance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section are adulterated under section 402(a)(2), 402(a)(3), or 402(a)(5) of the act.
(3) Animal feed or feed ingredients that are not in compliance with the labeling requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section are misbranded under section 403(a)(1) or 403(f) of the act.
(4) Failure of a renderer to comply with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section will render the animal feed or feed ingredients adulterated under section 402(a)(4) of the act.
(e)
Inspection; records retention.
Records required to be made available for inspection and copying by the Food and Drug Administration, as required by this section, shall be kept for a minimum of 1 year.
(f)
Process for designating countries.
A country seeking designation must send a written request to the Director, Office of the Center Director, Center for Veterinary Medicine, at the address designated in § 5.1100 of this chapter. The request shall include information about that country's BSE case history, risk factors, measures to prevent the introduction and transmission of BSE, and any other information relevant to determining whether the cattle materials from the requesting country do or do not meet the definitions set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. FDA shall respond in writing to any such request and may impose conditions in granting any such request. Any grant by FDA of such a request under this paragraph will be subject to future review by FDA and may be revoked if FDA determines that the granted request is no longer appropriate.
[73 FR 22756, Apr. 25, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 5596, Feb. 3, 2016]
PARTS 590-599 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
21 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
21 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
500.1410 (a) revised
18117
501.105 (t) introductory text revised
72908
507 Notification
17008
507.62 (a) revised
16554
507.65 (h) revised
16554
507.69 (a)(1) revised
16554
507.73 (c)(2) revised
16554
507.75 Revised
16555
507.85 (a) and (b)(1) revised
16555
510.600 (c)(1) table and (2) table amended
4207, 18118, 45307
514 Technical correction
59427
514.80 Table, (b)(1), (2)(i), (ii), (3), (4)(iv)(A), (C), and (v) amended; (d) and (g) revised
45512
520 Drug application approvals withdrawn
4210, 18125, 45311
520.88c (c) amended
18118
520.90a Redesignated from 520.90b
18118
520.90b Redesignated as 520.90a; new section redesignated from 520.90c
18118
520.90c Redesignated as 520.90b; new section redesignated from 520.90f; new (b) and new (d) revised
18118
520.90d Removed
18118
520.90e Removed
18118
520.90f Redesignated as 520.90c
18118
520.260 (b)(2) amended
18119
520.292 (b) amended
4207
520.304 (b)(1) amended
4207
520.455 (b) amended
18119
520.903c Redesignated from 520.903d
18119
520.903d Redesignated as 520.903c; new section redesignated from 520.903e
18119
520.903e Redesignated as 520.903d
18119
520.1263b Redesignated from 520.1263c
18119
520.1263c Redesignated as 520.1263b
18119
520.1286 (c)(2) amended
4208
520.1286 Revised
18119
520.1310 (b) amended
45307
520.1660d (d)(2)(ii) revised
18119
520.1696a Redesignated from 520.1696b
18119
520.1696b Redesignated as 520.1696a; new section redesignated from 520.1696c
18119
520.1696c Redesignated as 520.1696b; new section redesignated from 520.1696d
18119
520.1696d Redesignated as 520.1696c
18119
520.1720a (b)(4) and (5) removed; (b)(6) redesignated as new (b)(4)
45307
520.1807 Removed
4208
520.2090 Added
45307
520.2218 (c) amended
18119
520.2260b (a) through (f) and (g) redesignated as (b) through (g) and (a)
18119
520.2455 (b)(4) added
18119
520.2455 (b)(2) amended
45308
520.2520d Heading revised; (c) added
4208
520.2612 (c)(2)(i) revised
4208
522 Drug application approvals withdrawn
4210, 18125
522.90b (b) amended
4208
522.224 (b) amended
4208
522.460 (b)(3) and (c)(1)(iv) added; (c)(1)(ii), (iii), and (2) revised
4208
522.480 (b)(2) amended
45308
522.650 (b) revised
18119
522.728 Added
18119
522.900 Removed
18119
522.1083 (a) and (c) revised
45308
522.1367 (c)(1)(i) amended
18119
522.1451 Revised
4208
522.1662a (a) through (e) redesignated as (b) through (f); (c)(3)(i)(
a
), (
b
), and (
c
) redesignated as (c)(3)(i)(A), (B), (C), (ii)(A), (B), and (C); (e)(3)(i)(
a
), (
b
), and (
c
) redesignated as (e)(3)(i)(A), (B), and (C); (e)(3)(ii)(
a
) and (
b
) redesignated as (e)(3)(ii)(A) and (B); (e)(3)(iii)(
a
), (
b
), and (
c
) redesignated as (e)(3)(iii)(A), (B), and (C); (f)(3)(i)(
a
), (
b
), (
c
), (ii)(
a
), (
b
), and (
c
) redesignated as (f)(3)(i)(A), (B), (C), (ii)(A), (B), and (C); (g)(3)(i)(
a
), (
b
), (
c
), (ii)(
a
), (
b
), and (
c
) redesignated as (g)(3)(i)(A), (B), (C), (ii)(A), (B), and (C); (k) and (l) redesignated as (j) and (a); new (e)(3)(iii)C) amended
18119
522.1696a (b)(1), (2), and (d)(2)(iii) amended
18120
522.1696b (b)(1) and (d)(2)(iii)(B) amended; (d)(2)(i)(A) and (B) removed
18120
522.1697 Added
18120
522.1697 (b) amended
45308
522.2092 Added
18120
522.2112 (b) amended
4208
524.981—524.2630 Undesignated center heading added
18120
524.1001 Added
18120
524.1044c (b) amended
4208
524.1044f (b) amended
4208
524.1146 (a) and (b) revised
18120
524.1448 (b) amended
45308
524.1484b Heading and (a) revised
45308
524.1742 Heading revised; (c) and (d) redesignated as (d) and (c); new (d)(1)(i)(
a
) and (
b
) redesignated as (d)(1)(i)(A) and (B); (d)(1) introductory text table heading added
18120
524.2098 (b) amended
18120, 45308
526 Drug application approvals withdrawn
18125
526.464b Removed; new section redesignated from 526.464c
18120
526.464c Redesignated as 526.464b
18120
529 Drug application approvals withdrawn
4210
529.1115 (b) amended
4208
529.1150 (c) revised
4208
556.40 (c) amended
18120
556.165 (c) amended
18121
556.168 Removed
18121
556.230 (b)(3) removed
18121
556.304 (c) amended
18121
556.344 (a), (b)(2)(i), and (ii) amended
18121
556.360 (b)(3) added; (c) revised
18121
556.500 (b)(6) added
18121
556.510 (c) amended
18121
556.513 Removed
4209
556.660 (c) amended
18121
556.670 (c) amended
18121
556.685 (c) amended
18121
556.733 (a) amended
18121
556.746 (b)(4) added
18121
556.750 (b)(4) removed
18121
556.765 (b)(1) revised
18121
558.4 (d) table amended
4209
558.6 (c)(7) revised
50784
558.55 (d)(5) added
18121
558.68 (e)(1)(ii), (iii), and (v) revised
4209
558.68 (e)(1)(iv) revised
45308
558.76 (e)(2)(vii), (viii), and (xi) revised
18121
558.185 Removed
18121
558.195 (e)(2)(ii) revised
18121
558.235 (d) revised
45309
558.295 Revised
45309
558.340 Revised
45310
558.342 (e)(1)(iv) revised
18122
558.348 Revised
45310
558.355 (b) and (f)(6)(i) revised
4210
558.355 (e) removed; (f)(4)(iv) revised
18122
558.430 (d) revised
45310
558.465 Revised
45310
558.500 (e)(2) revised
18122
558.500 (e)(1)(iii) and (iv) removed
45311
558.618 (e)(2)(ii) and (iii) revised
18123
558.625 (e)(2)(iv), (v), and (x) through (xiii) amended
4210
558.625 (e)(2)(vi) and (ix) revised
18124
558.635 (e)(1)(iv) revised
18125
573.304 (b), (c), (d)(3), and (e)(2)(ii) revised
14566
573.304 (d)(1) and (e)(1) amended
48650
573.940 (b) through (e) revised
33539
582.99 Revised
72908
2021
21 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
500.80 (a) amended; (c) revised
52410
500.82 (b) amended
52410
500.88 (d) added
52410
500.92 (a) revised
52410
510 Drug application approvals withdrawn
10819
510.201—510.213 (Subpart C) Added
52410
510.600 (c)(1) table and (2) table amended
10819, 13183, 17063, 57995, 61684
510.600 (c)(1) table amended
14817
516.812 Added
13184
516.1858 Added
57996
516.2980 Added
57996
520 Drug application approvals withdrawn
10819
520.88g (b)(2) revised
61684
520.100 (a)(3) removed; (b)(2) and (d)(2) introductory text revised; (b)(3) added
13184
520.260 Revised
10819
520.292 (a) and (c) revised
17063
520.304 (b) revised; (c) removed; (d) redesignated as new (c)
13184
520.304 (a)(3) and (b)(3) added; (b)(1) and (2) revised
14817
520.304 (b)(2) revised
61684
520.441 (b)(1) revised
57996
520.455 Heading and (b) revised
57996
520.522 (b)(3) added
17063
520.530 (b) revised
14818
520.531 (b)(1) revised
14818
520.538 (c) removed; (d) redesignated as new (c); (b) revised
61684
520.580 (b)(1) amended
10819
520.812 (a) and (b) revised
13184
520.812 (b)(1) revised
14818
520.903a (b) revised
14818
520.903b (b) revised
14818
520.903c (b) revised
14818
520.903d (b) revised
14818
520.905a (e)(5)(ii) and (6)(ii) revised; (e)(5)(iii) removed
14818
520.905a (e)(2) through (4) revised
61684
520.905c (e)(2) revised
57996
520.905e Removed
61685
520.998 Revised
14818
520.1156 (b) revised
14818
520.1189 (b) revised
57996
520.1192 (b)(2) revised
14818
520.1195 (b)(1) revised
14818
520.1248 (b) and (c)(1) revised
57996
520.1286 (c)(2)(ii) revised
61685
520.1443 (b) amended
13184
520.1447 (b) amended
13184
520.1454 (b) revised
14818
520.1510 (b)(2) amended
13184
520.1510 (b)(1) revised
57997
520.1696a (b) revised
57997
520.1720a (b)(5) added
14819
520.1860 (b) revised
14819
520.1870 (b) revised
14819
520.1871 (b)(1) revised
14819
520.1872 (b) revised
14819
520.2043 (b)(2) revised
14819
520.2086 (c)(2) amended
61685
520.2090 (c)(2) revised
57997
520.2138 Added
14819
520.2260b (b) heading and (e) heading added; (b)(1) and (e)(1) revised
14819
520.2455 (b)(4) amended
13184
520.2455 (b)(1) and (2) revised
14819
520.2645 (d)(2) revised
57997
522 Drug application approvals withdrawn
10819
522.23 (b) revised
14819
522.84 Removed
10819
522.90c (b) revised
57997
522.234 (b) revised
14819
522.246 (b)(2) and (3) revised
14819
522.518 Removed
10819
522.536 (b) amended
13184
522.558 (b)(1) revised
57997
522.812 (b)(1) and (2) revised
14819
522.812 (b)(1) and (e)(1)(i) revised
61685
522.955 (b)(2) revised
14819
522.970 (b)(1) revised
14819
522.970 (b)(1) revised; (b)(3) added
57997
522.995 (b) revised
14820
522.1010 (b)(3) revised
14820
522.1077 (e)(1)(ii) and (2) removed; (e)(1)(iii) through (vii) redesignated as (e)(1)(ii) through (vi); (a)(3), (b), (d), (e)(1)(i), new (ii), and new (iii) revised
13184
522.1077 (b)(3) revised; (b)(4) removed; (b)(5) redesignated as new (b)(4)
14820
522.1086 (b) revised
14820
522.1182 (b)(1) introductory text revised
14820
522.1193 (e)(3)(i) revised
14820
522.1193 (b), (e)(2), and (3) revised
57997
522.1222 (b) revised
14820
522.1225 (b) revised
57997
522.1225 Revised
61685
522.1450 (b) revised
14820
522.1620 Removed
10819
522.1696a (d)(2)(iii) revised
14820
522.1696a (d)(2)(iii) revised
57997
522.1697 Redesignated as 522.1700
61685
522.1698 Redesignated as 522.1702
61685
522.1700 Redesignated from 522.1697
61685
522.1702 Redesignated from 522.1698
61685
522.1703 Redesignated from 522.1704
61685
522.1704 Redesignated as 522.1703
61685
522.1720 (b)(2) revised
14820
522.1870 (b) revised
14820
522.1890 Heading revised
14820
522.2120 Revised
14820
522.2450 Added
17064
522.2470 (b)(1) and (2) revised
17064
522.2630 (b) and (d)(1)(iii)(A) revised
57997
522.2632 Added
61685
522.2662 (b)(3) revised
14820
524.450 (b) revised
14820
524.775 (b) revised
14820
524.802 (b) revised
14821
524.920 (b)(1) through (3) revised
14821
524.955 (b) revised
14821
524.957 (b) revised
14821
524.1140 (b) revised
14821
524.1146 (b)(2) revised; (b)(3) added
13185
524.1146 (b)(1) through (3) revised
14821
524.1146 (b)(1) and (2) revised
61686
524.1193 (b)(2) amended
13185
524.1450 (b)(1) and (2) revised
14821
524.2080 Added
13185
524.2098 (b) amended
13185
524.2098 (c) removed; (d) redesignated as new (c); (a), (b), and new (c)(1) revised
17064
526.88 Heading, (a), (d) heading, (1), and (3) revised
13185
526.313 (a) and (d) revised; (e) added
13185
526.363 (a) and (d) revised
13186
526.365 (a) and (d)(1) revised
13186
526.464 Revised
13186
526.464a Removed
13186
526.464b Redesignated as 526.465
13186
526.465 Redesignated from 526.464b; heading, (a), and (b) revised
13186
526.820 Revised
13186
526.1130 (a), (d) heading, (1), and (2) revised
13186
526.1590 Revised
13187
526.1696 Revised
13187
526.1696 (b) revised
57998
526.1696a Removed
13187
526.1696b Redesignated as 526.1697
13187
526.1696c Removed
13187
526.1696d Redesignated as 526.1698
13187
526.1697 Redesignated from 526.1696b; heading, (a) and (d) revised; (e) added
13187
526.1698 Redesignated from 526.1696d; heading, (a), and (d) revised; (e) added
13187
526.1810 (a) and (d) heading revised; (d)(1) amended
13188
528.2001 Added
17064
529.56 (b) revised
14821
529.443 Added
13188
529.1044a (b) revised
14821
529.2110 Redesignated from 529.2150
13188
529.2150 Redesignated as 529.2110
13188
556.38 (c) amended
13188
556.165 (c) amended
13188
556.168 Added
14821
556.170 (c) amended
13188
556.180 (c) amended
13188
556.185 (c) amended
13188
556.226 (c) amended
13188
556.275 (b)(1)(ii) revised; (b)(1)(iii), (3)(ii), (4)(ii), and (5)(ii) removed
57998
556.275 (c) revised
61686
556.300 (c) amended
13188
556.345 Added
61686
556.360 (c) amended
13188
556.510 (c) amended
13188
556.517 (c) revised
14821
556.670 (c) amended
13188
556.745 (c) revised
61686
558.55 (a) revised; (b) and (d) redesignated as (d) and (e); new (b) added
14821
558.58 (b) revised; (c) and (d) redesignated as (d) and (c)
14821
558.68 (e)(1)(ii), (iii), and (v) revised
13188
558.68 (a) revised
14821
558.76 (b) revised; (c) removed; (d) and (e) redesignated as (c) and (d)
14821
558.76 (a)(1), (2), and (d)(1) revised; (d)(2) redesignated as (d)(6); new (d)(2) and (3) through (5) added
57998
558.78 (b) revised
14822
558.95 (b) and (d) redesignated as (d) and (e); new (b) and new (e)(5) heading added; (a) and new (e)(5)(iii) revised
14822
558.128 (e)(4)(xv) and (xvi) revised
13189
558.128 (b) introductory text revised
14822
558.128 (e)(4)(xv) revised
17064
558.128 (d)(4) and (e)(4) revised
57999
558.128 (e)(4) introductory text revised
61686
558.140 (b)(2) redesignated as (b)(3); new (b)(2) added; (b)(1) and (e)(1) revised
13189
558.140 (b) introductory text revised
14822
558.175 (d)(3) revised; (e) removed
14822
558.185 Added
14822
558.195 (b) revised
14822
558.258 (b) revised
14822
558.258 (e)(3)(iii) revised
61686
558.261 (e)(2)(ii) revised
14822
558.295 (a) revised
14823
558.305 (b) revised
14823
558.311 (e)(5)(ii) through (vi) redesignated as (e)(5)(iii) through (vii); new (e)(5)(ii) added
13190
558.311 (e)(2) through (5) redesignated as new (e)(5) through (8); (e) heading, introductory text, and new (2) through (4) added; (a), (b), (d)(7), and (e)(1) revised; new (e)(6)(i) table amended
14823
558.325 (b) and (e)(1)(ix) revised
14824
558.342 (b)(2) amended; (e)(1)(i) revised
13190
558.342 (b) revised
14825
558.342 (d)(3) through (6) revised; (d)(7) and (8) removed
17064
558.342 (e)(1)(iv) revised
58010
558.355 (b) introductory text, (d)(9)(i), (ii), (10)(i), and (ii) revised
14825
558.355 (f)(4)(v) removed; (f)(4)(vi) redesignated as (f)(4)(v); (b)(2), (f)(2)(ii), (3), (4)(i), (ii), new (v), (6)(i), and (7)(viii) revised;
58011
558.355 (f)(3) heading added
61687
558.363 (a) revised
14825
558.364 (d)(1)(ii) revised
14825
558.366 (b) revised
14825
558.450 (e)(5)(iv) revised
14825
558.465 Removed
14826
558.470 Added
14826
558.485 (b) introductory text revised
14826
558.500 (b) amended; (e)(2)(i), (iii), and (vi) revised
13190
558.500 (b) revised
14826
558.500 (e)(2)(ii), (iv), (v), and (vii) revised
58013
558.515 (a) revised; (b), (d), and (e) redesignated as (d), (e), and (f); new (b) added
14826
558.550 (a), (b), (e)(1)(i), and (2)(i) revised; (e)(3)(i) through (iv) redesignated as (e)(3)(ii) through (v); (e)(3) heading and (i) added
14826
558.550 (a), (b), (e)(1)(i), and (2)(i) revised
58014
558.555 (b) revised
14826
558.575 (b) introductory text revised
14827
558.600 (a) and (d) revised
14827
558.612 (b) revised
14827
558.618 (b) revised
14827
558.625 (e)(2)(i) and (ix) through (xiii) revised
58014
558.680 (b), (d)(1)(i), (v), and (2)(i) revised
14827
573.496 Introductory text, (b), and (e)(2) revised
37038
573.920 (a)(6), (h)(2), and (3) introductory text revised
37036
2022
21 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
500.1410 Revised
10966
507 Notification
14169
507.105 Regulation at 80 FR 56337 eff. date confirmed in part
65527
507.135 Regulation at 80 FR 56337 eff. date confirmed in part
65527
507.175 Regulation at 80 FR 56337 eff. date confirmed in part
65527
510.600 (c)(1) table and (2) table amended
10967, 17944, 58959, 76420
515.10 (a) revised
58960
516.3 (b) amended
56589
516.3 Regulation at 87 FR 56589 eff. date confirmed
76425
516.498 Added
17944
516.812 (b) amended
58960
516.1780 Added
76421
516.2065 Removed
10968
520.88g (b)(2), (c)(1)(ii), and (2)(ii) revised
58960
520.88h Revised
10968, 17944
520.314 (b) amended
76421
520.530 (c) removed; (d) redesignated as new (c)
58961
520.563 Heading revised
76421
520.812 (b)(1) and (3) revised
58961
520.905a (e)(1)(ii) and (iii) revised
58961
520.905c (e)(1)(i) revised
10968
520.928 Heading, (a), (b), and (c)(1)(i) revised
58961
520.1044c (d)(2) revised
10968
520.1242a (b)(3) revised
58961
520.1660d (d)(1)(iii)(A) and (C) revised
10968
520.1720a (a) revised
58961
520.1780 (c)(2) revised
10968
520.1846 Removed
58961
520.1870 (c)(2)(iii) amended
58961
520.1872 (c)(1)(iii) revised
58961
520.2090 (c)(2) revised
17945
520.2130 (a) revised
10968
520.2220a (d)(1)(iii) and (2)(iii) revised
10968
520.2260a Revised
58961
520.2260b (b) and (e) removed; (f)(2)(ii) amended
10969
520.2325a (c)(4)(iii) and (d) revised
58962
520.2330 (c)(3) amended
76421
520.2455 (b)(1) through (4) revised; (d)(2) amended
17945
520.2455 (b)(3) revised
58962
520.2471 (b) revised
58962
520.2598 (c)(2) revised
58962
520.2604 (c)(2) revised
10969
520.2640 (a), (b), (e)(2)(i), and (3)(i) revised
76421
522.246 (b)(2) and (3) revised
17945
522.533 (b)(2) amended
17945
522.533 (c)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) revised
58962
522.558 (b)(1) amended
10969
522.690 (a), (b), (d)(1) introductory text, (i), (2)(ii), and (3)(ii) revised; (d)(2) introductory text and (3) introductory text added; (d)(4) removed
17945
522.812 (b)(1) revised
10969
522.812 (b)(2) revised
17945, 58962
522.840 (d)(2) amended
10969
522.842 Redesignated as 522.2343
10969
522.955 (b)(2) and (d)(1)(ii)(C) revised; (b)(3) redesignated as (b)(4); new (b)(3) and (d)(2) added; (d)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
) and (B)(
2
) amended
10969
522.955 (b)(3) and (d)(1)(ii)(C) amended
17945
522.955 (b)(3), (d)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
), (B)(
2
), and (C) revised
76421
522.1008 Added
58962
522.1077 (d)(1)(iv) revised
17946
522.1156 (c)(1) revised
10969
522.1338 Added
58962
522.1338 (b) amended
76421
522.1662a (e)(1) revised; (e)(3)(i)(D), (ii)(C), and (iii)(D) added; (e)(3)(iv) through (vii) removed
76421
522.1940 (c)(1) heading, (iii), (2) heading, and (iii) revised
17946
522.2065 Added
10969
522.2343 New section redesignated from 522.842 and heading revised
10969
522.2343 (c) introductory text and (3) revised
17946
522.2470 (b) introductory text revised
10969
522.2471 (e)(2)(iii) revised
76421
522.2477 (b)(2) revised; (d)(1)(i)(G) removed; (d)(6) added
10969
522.2478 (d)(3) redesignated as (d)(4); new (d)(3) added; new (d)(4) heading and (i)(C) revised
17946
522.2615 (d)(3)(iii) revised
58962
522.2630 (b)(1) and (2) revised
17946, 58962
522.2662 (b)(3) revised
17946
522.2690 (b) amended
76422
524.230 Added
58962
524.770 (e)(1) and (e)(3) revised
10970
524.1001 Heading and (a) revised
58963
524.1146 (b)(2) and (3) revised
17946
524.1146 (b)(1) and (2) revised
58963
524.2098 (b) revised
58963
528 Heading revised
76422
529.1004 Redesignated from 529.1030
10970
529.1030 Redesignated as 529.1004
10970
529.1186 (b) revised
58963
529.1940 (e)(1)(iii) revised
10970
529.1940 (e)(1)(iii) amended
17947
529.2110 (b) revised
58963
556.240 (b)(1) and (c) revised
17947
556.370 (b) revised
17947
556.710 (c) revised
10970
558.4 (d) table amended
58963
558.59 (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added
10970
558.95 (e)(4)(i) and (ii) revised
76422
558.128 (e)(4)(iii) and (xli) revised
58963
558.128 (e)(4)(x), (xi), (xiii), (xxx), and (xxxi) revised
76422
558.205 (d)(1) and (2) revised
10970
558.254 (e) introductory text amended
10971
558.254 (e) revised
17947
558.258 (e)(1), (2)(i), and (3) through (5) revised; (e)(2) table amended
58964
558.261 (e)(2)(ii) revised
10971
558.311 (e)(3)(ix) added
10972
558.342 (e)(1)(ii) revised
76423
558.355 (d)(8)(vi), (f)(1)(ii), (iv), and (vi) revised
17947
558.450 (e)(5)(ii) revised; (e)(5)(iii) through (vii) redesignated as (e)(5)(iv) through (viii); new (e)(5)(iii) added
10972
558.450 (e)(4)(ii) through (v) redesignated as (e)(4)(iii) through (vi); new (e)(4)(ii) added; (e)(4)(i), new (iii), and new (vi) revised
76423
558.455 (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) and (2)(ii) through (iv) redesignated as (e)(1)(i) through (iii) and (2)(i) through (iii); (e)(3) and (4) revised; (e)(5) added
76423
558.500 (b), (e)(2)(i), (iii), and (vi) revised
17947
558.555 (f) amended
17948
558.575 (e)(3)(iv) and (v) revised
76424
558.633 (d)(3) revised
10972, 17948
558.633 (d)(3) amended
58968
558.635 (e)(1)(iv) revised
10972
558.680 (d)(1)(iii), (iv), (vii), (viii) and (2) revised
17948
570 Notification
77983
573.485 Added
47344
573.485 Introductory text and (c) revised
52682
573.637 Introductory text and (b) revised
21019
2023
21 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
500.80 (a) amended
45066
500.1410 (c) revised
55562
509 Nomenclature change
45066
510.600 (c)(1) table and (2) table amended
14896, 16546
510.600 (c)(1) table and (c)(2) table amended
27697, 55562, 84698
514.200 (c)(1) amended
45066
516.28 Introductory text amended
45066
516.498 Transferred to Subpart E
16546
516.812 Removed
27698
516.1012 Added
16546
516.1449 Added
55563
516.1684 Removed
84699
516.1760 Added
84699
520.23 (a) and (b) revised
84699
520.35 Added
84699
520.43 (c)(1) and (2) revised
55563
520.48 (b) revised
27698
520.154a (d)(1) and (2) redesignated as (d)(2) and (1); new (d)(1)(i)(B), new (ii)(B), and new (2)(iii) amended; (d)(3)(iii) revised
14897
520.170 Added
16547
520.284 Removed
27698
520.284a Removed
27698
520.284b Removed
27698
520.284c Removed
27698
520.304 (b)(1) and (2) revised
27698
520.370 (b)(1) amended
16547
520.420 Removed
27698
520.441 (b)(1), (3), and (d)(4)(iii)(C) revised
16547
520.443 (a), (b), and (d)(3)(ii) revised
16547
520.443 (d)(2)(ii) amended
27698
520.443 (d)(1)(ii) revised
55563
520.522 (b)(2) amended
16547
520.522 (b)(4) added; (d)(2)(ii) revised
27698
520.812 (b)(2) amended; (b)(4) removed
27698
520.928 (b)(2) amended
14897
520.928 (b)(1) amended
55563, 84700
520.998 (c)(2)(i) revised
27698
520.1044a (b) amended
84700
520.1044b (d)(3) amended
27698
520.1130 Removed
27698
520.1195 (b)(1) amended
27698
520.1195 (b)(1) revised
84700
520.1196 (c)(1)(ii) amended
16547
520.1263b (b)(1) and (2) revised
16547
520.1263b (b)(2) and (d)(1)(iii) revised
84700
520.1310 (a) and (b) revised
27698
520.1315 (b) revised
27699
520.1484 (b)(3) revised; (b)(4) added
55563
520.1484 (b)(1) amended
84700
520.1604 (a) amended
55563
520.1660a Redesignated as 520.1664
55563
520.1660b Heading, (a), and (c) revised
55563
520.1660c Heading and (d)(3) revised
14897
520.1660c Heading, (a), (b), and (d) revised
55563
520.1664 Redesignated from 520.1660a
55563
520.1696b Removed
27699
520.1696c (b) revised
27699
520.1870 (b)(2) amended
27699
520.2123c (d)(3) revised
14897
520.2170 Removed
27699
520.2200 (a)(2), (d)(1)(i), and (2)(i) revised; (a)(3) and (d)(3) removed
27699
520.2220d (d)(3) revised
16547
520.2220b (c)(1) and (2) revised
55564
520.2220c (d)(1) and (2) revised
55564
520.2260a (d)(2)(iii) revised
14897
520.2260a (d)(1)(iii) revised
16547
520.2260b (d)(2)(iii), (f)(2)(iii), and (g)(2)(iii) revised; (h) removed
55564
520.2380 Removed
27699
520.2380a Removed
27699
520.2380b Removed
27699
520.2380c Removed
27699
520.2380d Removed
27699
520.2380e Removed
27699
520.2380f Redesignated as 520.2382
27699
520.2382 Redesignated from 520.2380f
27699
520.2483 Removed
27699
520.2640 (b)(3) added
16547
520.2654 Added
84700
522.52 (b) amended
84700
522.147 (b), (c)(1), and (2) revised
84700
522.158 Added
55564
522.246 (b)(3) revised
16547
522.304 (b) amended
16547
522.460 (b) and (c) revised
84700
522.536 (b) amended
27699
522.540 (a)(2)(ii) amended
84700
522.542 Removed
27699
522.558 (b)(1) amended
27699, 84701
522.728 (b) amended
14898
522.770 (b), (d)(1)(iii), and (2)(iii) revised
55564
522.772 Added
14898
522.775 Removed
27699
522.820 (d)(3)(iii) amended
27699
522.840 (d)(1) and (2) revised; (d)(3) removed
14898
522.960c (b) and (c)(1)(iii) revised
55564
522.1044 (d)(2)(i) through (iii), (3)(i) though (iii), and (4)(i) through (iii) revised
16547
522.1077 (b)(2), (d)(1)(iv), and (e)(1)(i) revised
27699
522.1150 Removed
27699
522.1192 (a)(1) and (e)(1) removed; (b)(1), (2), and (e)(2)(i) revised
27699
522.1222 (b) amended
27699, 55564
522.1260 (e)(2)(iii) revised
16548
522.1367 (b) revised
14898
522.1372 (c)(1) amended
14898
522.1450 (a), (b), and (e) revised
27699
522.1660a (b) revised; (e)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) amended
16548
522.1660a (d) removed; (e) redesignated as new (d); (c), new (d)(1)(ii), and new (2)(ii) revised
55564
522.1660b (e)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) amended
16548
522.1662 Redesignated from 522.1662a; heading, (d), (e), (f), and (i)(1) through (3) revised; (b)(3)(i) through (iii) heading added; (b)(3)(iv) removed
14898
522.1662 (j)(3)(i) and (iii) revised
16548
522.1662 (b), (c), (g), (h), and (j) revised
55565
522.1662a Redesignated as 522.1662
14898
522.1662b Redesignated as 522.1663
14898
522.1663 Redesignated from 522.1662b
14898
522.1696a (d)(2)(iii) revised
16548
522.1696b (b)(2), (d)(1)(i), and (2)(iii)(B) revised; (d)(2)(iii)(C) added
14899
522.1696b (d)(2)(iii)(C) revised
16548
522.1696b (d)(2)(iii)(C) amended
27700
522.1698 Redesignated from 522.1702
14899
522.1700 (b) amended
84701
522.1702 Redesignated as 522.1698
14899
522.1704 Added
16548
522.1704 (b) amended
84701
522.1885 Removed
27700
522.1940 (a) revised; (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added
55566
522.2120 (d)(1)(ii) amended
27700
522.2121 (b) amended
14899
522.2200 Removed
27700
522.2220 (d)(4)(iii) revised
14900
522.2340 (e)(4) revised
14900
522.2343 (a) revised; (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added
55566
522.2470 (b) introductory text and (1) revised
16548
522.2471 (d) removed; (e) redesignated as new (d); new (d)(1)(iii) and new (2)(iii) revised
16548
522.2476 (a) revised; (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added
55566
522.2477 (b) and (c) redesignated as (a) and (b); new (c) added
55566
522.2478 Revised
14900
522.2630 (b)(1) revised
16548
522.2630 (b)(2) revised
27700
522.2640 (b)(1), (e)(1)(iii), and (2)(iii) revised
14900
522.2640 (b)(2), (e)(1)(iii), and (2)(iii) amended
16549
522.2640 (b)(1) and (2) revised
84701
522.2680 (d)(1)(ii)(A), (B), and (iii) revised
55566
524.154 (b)(2) amended
84701
524.770 (b) revised
27700
524.814 (b) and (e)(1) revised
27700
524.838 Added
55566
524.957 (b) amended
14901
524.970 (d)(2) and (3) revised
16549
524.998 (c)(2)(ii) revised
14901
524.1001 (c)(2) revised
14901
524.1044c (b) amended
16549
524.1044e (d)(3) amended
27700
524.1044f (b) revised
16549
524.1146 (b)(3) amended
27700
524.1193 (b)(2) amended
84701
524.1448 (c)(2) revised
16549
524.1484g (b) amended
16549
524.1484j Removed
27700
524.1600a (b) revised
84701
524.1662b (c)(3) revised
14901
524.2101 (b) amended
27700
524.2483 (b) amended
27700
524.2483 Removed
84701
524.2620 (b)(1) amended
14901
526.363 (d)(3) revised
16549
526.365 (d)(3) revised
16549
526.820 (d)(3) and (e)(3) revised
14901
526.1696 (d)(3) and (e)(3) amended
27700, 55567
526.1697 (d)(3) Amended
55567
526.1698 (d)(3) and (e)(3) revised
14901
528.1070 Removed
14901
529.40 Removed
27700
529.1044a (b) revised
55567
529.1044b (c)(3) amended
16549
529.1044b (c)(3) revised
55567
556.110 (c) revised
55567
556.222 (b)(1)(i) and (c) revised
16549
556.500 (c) revised
16549, 55567
556.620 Removed
27700
556.730 Revised
27700
558.68 (e)(1)(ii) revised
55567
558.76 (d)(1)(iv) redesignated as (d)(1)(v); new (d)(1)(iv) added
16549
558.128 (e)(4)(x) through (xlvii), (vii) through (ix), (iii) through (vi) redesignated as (e)(4)(xxi) through (lviii), (xv) through (xvii), (v) through (viii); new (e)(4)(xv) revised; new (e)(4)(iii), new (iv), new (ix) through (xiv), and new (xviii) through (xx) added
14901
558.128 (e)(4)(iii), (iv), (ix) through (xiv), and (xviii) through (xx) revised
55567
558.258 (e)(3)(iv)(A)(
3
) and (
4
) added
14904
558.311 (e)(3)(iii) revised
27700
558.325 (e)(2)(ii), (viii), and (xiii) removed
55570
558.330 (a), (d)(1)(ii), and (iii) revised
14905
558.330 (d)(1)(ii), (iii), (2)(i), and (ii) revised
84701
558.355 (f)(1)(iv), (v), and (vi) through (x) redesignated as (f)(1)(vi), (vii), and (x) through (xiv); new (f)(1)(iv), new (v), new (viii), and new (ix) added
14906
558.355 (d)(8)(vi) revised
16550
558.355 (f)(4)(iv) revised
84702
558.364 (d)(2)(ii) added
14907
558.364 (d)(1)(ii) and (iii) revised; (d)(1)(iv) and (v) redesignated as (d)(1)(vi) and (vii); new (d)(1)(iv) and (v) added
16550
558.366 (d)(1)(i) revised; (d)(2) added
14907
558.366 (b) and (d)(1)(v) revised
55570
558.450 (e)(3)(i) revised; (e)(3)(ii) redesignated as (e)(3)(iii); new (e)(3)(ii) added
14907
558.450 (e)(5)(iv) and (v) revised
55571
558.455 (e)(5) revised
27701
558.600 Revised
27701
558.625 (e)(2)(vii) and (viii) revised
14907, 84702
558.635 (e)(1)(vii) through (ix) redesignated as (e)(1)(ix) through (xi); new (e)(1)(vii) and new (viii) added
14908
570 Amended
45066
570.35 (b)(2) amended
45066
573.230 Added
87671
573.460 (a)(1)(i) and (2)(i) amended
45066
2024
21 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
510.600 (c)(1) table and (2) table amended
14409, 42356, 85425, 95103
514 Authority citation revised; eff. 12-18-25
51782
514.1 (a) amended; eff. 12-18-25
51782
514.80 Introductory text table amended; (a)(6) added; eff. 12-18-25
51782
515.10 (c) and (e) revised
51966
516.155 (a) and (b) revised
42362
516.1760 (a) revised
85426
516.2475 Added
85426
520.88 Heading and (a) revised; (b)(3) added
42357
520.100 (b)(2) revised; (b)(3) removed
85426
520.304 (a)(4) and (b)(4) added; (b)(1) revised
42357
520.304 (b)(2) amended
95103
520.522 (b)(4) amended
95103
520.645 Removed
42357
520.804 Removed
42357
520.870 Removed
42357
520.928 Heading revised
42357
520.929 Added
42357
520.1136 Added
95103
520.1196 (b) revised
42357
520.1198 (a)(3) and (b)(3) removed
42357
520.1315 (b) revised
85426
520.1372 Redesignated as 520.1375
95103
520.1375 Redesignated from 520.1372 and heading revised
95103
520.1376 Added
95103
520.1408 (b) revised
14410
520.1425 Added
14410
520.1760 (b) revised
85426
520.1780 Heading revised
42357
520.1780 (b) revised
85426
520.1782 Added
42357
520.1892 Added
14410
520.2090 (a)(1) revised
95103
520.2130 (d)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) amended
85426
520.2598 (a) revised
85426
520.2604 (b) revised
85426
520.2645 (d)(2) revised
14410
522.147 (b) revised
42357
522.304 (b) revised
14410, 85426
522.313c (b) revised
95103
522.772 (d)(1)(ii) revised; (d)(1)(iii) amended
85426
522.812 (b)(1) and (2) revised
14410
522.840 (d) revised
42357
522.870 Removed
42358
522.955 (b)(3) revised; (d)(1)(ii)(C) amended
14410, 85426
522.970 (b)(1) and (3) revised
85426
522.1182 (b)(7) introductory text revised
85427
522.1450 (b) revised
95103
522.1696b (d)(2)(iii)(B) revised
85427
522.1860 Added
85427
522.1940 Revised
42358
522.2343 Revised
42358
522.2470 Heading and (b) revised
95103
522.2477 Revised
42359
522.2478 (a)(1)(i) and (ii) redesignated as (a)(1)(ii) and (iii); new (a)(1)(i) and (d)(3) added; (d)(1)(i)(A), (B), and (D) revised
85427
522.2630 (b)(1) and (2) amended
95103
522.2694 Added
85428
524.802 (b) revised
85428
524.1044a (b) revised
14410
524.1146 (b)(1) and (2) revised
14410
524.1193 (d) removed; (e) redesignated as new (d); (b), new (d)(2), and new (3) revised
42360
524.1580a (b)(1) amended
95103
524.1580c Removed
95103
524.2098 (b) revised
14410, 42360
524.2099 (c)(2) revised
14410
524.2338 Added
42360
529.1004 (d)(2)(ii) table footnote 1 revised
85428
529.1150 (c)(1)(iv) revised
85428
529.1186 (b) revised
14411, 42360
529.2110 (b) revised
42360
556.275 (b)(6) added
85428
556.530 added
85428
556.730 Removed
14411
558.4 (d) table amended
14411
558.6 (c)(7) revised
51966
558.95 (b), (e)(2)(i), (ii), (e)(3)(i), (ii) revised
14411
558.128 (e)(4)(xvi) and (xvii) revised (e)(4)(xxi) through (lviii) redesignated as (e)(4)(xiii) through (lx); new (e)(4)(xxi) and new (xxii) added
14411
558.128 (e)(4)(ii), (vi), (viii), (xxviii), (xxxi), (xxxii), (xxxv), (xxxvi), (xxxix), (xli), (xlii), (l), (lii), (liv), (lvi), (lvii), (lix), and (lx) revised
95103
558.258 (e)(1) heading and (5)(iv) added
85428
558.261 (e)(2)(ii) revised
85428
558.355 (f) redesignated as (e); (b)(1), (2), (d)(9)(i) heading, (ii) heading, (10)(i), (ii), new (e)(1)(i), new (ii), new (2)(i), and new (5) revised; new (e)(6) removed; new (e)(7) redesignated as new (e)(6)
95107
558.450 (e)(5)(iv) through (vi) revised
85429
558.485 (e)(2) revised
42360
558.500 (b)(1), (2), and (e)(1)(i) revised
42361
558.600 Removed
14412
573.304 Heading, (b)(1), (d)(3)(i), and (e)(2)(ii)(A) revised
5768
573.420 (b) revised
48508
573.450 (a) amended
67856
573.500 (a) amended
33231
573.587 Redesignated from 573.750; new heading and new (a) revised
72315
573.750 Redesignated as 573.587
72315
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
21 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
510.600 (c)(1) table and (2) table amended
6799
520.35 (a) and (c)(2) revised
6799
520.998 (c)(2)(ii) revised
6800
520.1287 Added
6800
520.1720e (b)(1) amended
6800
520.2086 (c)(1) and (2) revised
6800
520.2090 (c)(2) revised
6800
522.2005 (b), (c) heading, and (2) revised; (d) added
6800
522.2478 (d)(2) revised
6801
522.2630 (b)(1) and (2) amended
6801
524.770 (b) revised
6801
524.2099 (c)(2) revised
6801
529.2620 (b) amended
6801
558.128 (e)(4)(xxi) and (xxii) revised
6801
558.261 (b) revised
6802
558.330 (d) redesignated as (e); new (d) added; new (e) revised
6802
558.342 (b)(1) and (2) added; (e)(1)(i) and (ii) revised
6803
558.625 (e)(2)(ix) through (xvii) redesignated as (e)(2)(x) through (xviii); new (e)(2)(ix) added
6804
○
