Any actuarially-oriented advisory service involving the determination of amounts recorded in the financial statements and related accounts for the audit client other than assisting a client in understanding the methods, models, assumptions, and inputs used in computing an amount, unless it is reasonable to conclude that the results of these services will not be subject to audit procedures during an audit of the audit client's financial statements.
(v)
Internal audit outsourcing services.
Any internal audit service that has been outsourced by the audit client that relates to the audit client's internal accounting controls, financial systems, or financial statements, for an audit client unless it is reasonable to conclude that the results of these services will not be subject to audit procedures during an audit of the audit client's financial statements.
(vi)
Management functions.
Acting, temporarily or permanently, as a director, officer, or employee of an audit client, or performing any decision-making, supervisory, or ongoing monitoring function for the audit client.
(vii)
Human resources.
(A) Searching for or seeking out prospective candidates for managerial, executive, or director positions;
(B) Engaging in psychological testing, or other formal testing or evaluation programs;
(C) Undertaking reference checks of prospective candidates for an executive or director position;
(D) Acting as a negotiator on the audit client's behalf, such as determining position, status or title, compensation, fringe benefits, or other conditions of employment; or
(E) Recommending, or advising the audit client to hire, a specific candidate for a specific job (except that an accounting firm may, upon request by the audit client, interview candidates and advise the audit client on the candidate's competence for financial accounting, administrative, or control positions).
(viii)
Broker-dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking services.
Acting as a broker-dealer (registered or unregistered), promoter, or underwriter, on behalf of an audit client, making investment decisions on behalf of the audit client or otherwise having discretionary authority over an audit client's investments, executing a transaction to buy or sell an audit client's investment, or having custody of assets of the audit client, such as taking temporary possession of securities purchased by the audit client.
(ix)
Legal services.
Providing any service to an audit client that, under circumstances in which the service is provided, could be provided only by someone licensed, admitted, or otherwise qualified to practice law in the jurisdiction in which the service is provided.
(x)
Expert services unrelated to the audit.
Providing an expert opinion or other expert service for an audit client, or an audit client's legal representative, for the purpose of advocating an audit client's interests in litigation or in a regulatory or administrative proceeding or investigation. In any litigation or regulatory or administrative proceeding or investigation, an accountant's independence shall not be deemed to be impaired if the accountant provides factual accounts, including in testimony, of work performed or explains the positions taken or conclusions reached during the performance of any service provided by the accountant for the audit client.
(5)
Contingent fees.
An accountant is not independent if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, the accountant provides any service or product to an audit client for a contingent fee or a commission, or receives a contingent fee or commission from an audit client.
(6)
Partner rotation.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, an accountant is not independent of an audit client when:
(A) Any audit partner as defined in paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section performs:
(
1
) The services of a lead partner, as defined in paragraph (f)(7)(ii)(A) of this section, or Engagement Quality Reviewer, as defined in paragraph (f)(7)(ii)(B) of this section; for more than five consecutive years; or
(
2
) One or more of the services defined in paragraphs (f)(7)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section for more than seven consecutive years;
(B) Any audit partner:
(
1
) Within the five consecutive year period following the performance of services for the maximum period permitted under paragraph (c)(6)(i)(A)(
1
) of this section, performs for that audit client the services of a lead partner, as defined in paragraph (f)(7)(ii)(A) of this section, or Engagement Quality Reviewer, as defined in paragraph (f)(7)(ii)(B) of this section, or a combination of those services; or
(
2
) Within the two consecutive year period following the performance of services for the maximum period permitted under paragraph (c)(6)(i)(A)(
2
) of this section, performs one or more of the services defined in paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section.
(ii) Any accounting firm with less than five audit clients that are issuers (as defined in section 10A(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j-1(f))) and less than ten partners shall be exempt from paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section
provided
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board conducts a review at least once every three years of each of the audit client engagements that would result in a lack of auditor independence under this paragraph.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, an audit client that is an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), does not include an affiliate of the audit client that is an entity in the same investment company complex, as defined in paragraph (f)(14) of this section, except for another registered investment company in the same investment company complex. For purposes
of calculating consecutive years of service under paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section with respect to investment companies in an investment company complex, audits of registered investment companies with different fiscal year-ends that are performed in a continuous 12-month period count as a single consecutive year.
(7)
Audit committee administration of the engagement.
An accountant is not independent of an issuer (as defined in section 10A(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j-1(f))), other than an issuer that is an Asset-Backed Issuer as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter, or an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), other than a unit investment trust as defined by section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-4(2)), unless:
(i) In accordance with Section 10A(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j-1(i)) either:
(A) Before the accountant is engaged by the issuer or its subsidiaries, or the registered investment company or its subsidiaries, to render audit or non-audit services, the engagement is approved by the issuer's or registered investment company's audit committee; or
(B) The engagement to render the service is entered into pursuant to pre-approval policies and procedures established by the audit committee of the issuer or registered investment company,
provided
the policies and procedures are detailed as to the particular service and the audit committee is informed of each service and such policies and procedures do not include delegation of the audit committees responsibilities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to management; or
(C) With respect to the provision of services other than audit, review or attest services the pre-approval requirement is waived if:
(
1
) The aggregate amount of all such services provided constitutes no more than five percent of the total amount of revenues paid by the audit client to its accountant during the fiscal year in which the services are provided;
(
2
) Such services were not recognized by the issuer or registered investment company at the time of the engagement to be non-audit services; and
(
3
) Such services are promptly brought to the attention of the audit committee of the issuer or registered investment company and approved prior to the completion of the audit by the audit committee or by one or more members of the audit committee who are members of the board of directors to whom authority to grant such approvals has been delegated by the audit committee.
(ii) A registered investment company's audit committee also must pre-approve its accountant's engagements for non-audit services with the registered investment company's investment adviser (not including a sub-adviser whose role is primarily portfolio management and is sub-contracted or overseen by another investment adviser) and any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the investment adviser that provides ongoing services to the registered investment company in accordance with paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section, if the engagement relates directly to the operations and financial reporting of the registered investment company, except that with respect to the waiver of the pre-approval requirement under paragraph (c)(7)(i)(C) of this section, the aggregate amount of all services provided constitutes no more than five percent of the total amount of revenues paid to the registered investment company's accountant by the registered investment company, its investment adviser and any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the investment adviser that provides ongoing services to the registered investment company during the fiscal year in which the services are provided that would have to be pre-approved by the registered investment company's audit committee pursuant to this section.
(8)
Compensation.
An accountant is not independent of an audit client if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, any audit partner earns or receives compensation based on the audit partner procuring engagements with that audit client to provide any products or services other than audit, review or attest services.
Any accounting firm with fewer than ten partners and fewer than five audit clients that are issuers (as defined in section 10A(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j-1(f))) shall be exempt from the requirement stated in the previous sentence.
(d)
Quality controls.
An accounting firm's independence will not be impaired solely because a covered person in the firm is not independent of an audit client provided:
(1) The covered person did not know of the circumstances giving rise to the lack of independence;
(2) The covered person's lack of independence was corrected as promptly as possible under the relevant circumstances after the covered person or accounting firm became aware of it; and
(3) The accounting firm has a quality control system in place that provides reasonable assurance, taking into account the size and nature of the accounting firm's practice, that the accounting firm and its employees do not lack independence, and that covers at least all employees and associated entities of the accounting firm participating in the engagement, including employees and associated entities located outside of the United States.
(4) For an accounting firm that annually provides audit, review, or attest services to more than 500 companies with a class of securities registered with the Commission under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
l
), a quality control system will not provide such reasonable assurance unless it has at least the following features:
(i) Written independence policies and procedures;
(ii) With respect to partners and managerial employees, an automated system to identify their investments in securities that might impair the accountant's independence;
(iii) With respect to all professionals, a system that provides timely information about entities from which the accountant is required to maintain independence;
(iv) An annual or on-going firm-wide training program about auditor independence;
(v) An annual internal inspection and testing program to monitor adherence to independence requirements;
(vi) Notification to all accounting firm members, officers, directors, and employees of the name and title of the member of senior management responsible for compliance with auditor independence requirements;
(vii) Written policies and procedures requiring all partners and covered persons to report promptly to the accounting firm when they are engaged in employment negotiations with an audit client, and requiring the firm to remove immediately any such professional from that audit client's engagement and to review promptly all work the professional performed related to that audit client's engagement; and
(viii) A disciplinary mechanism to ensure compliance with this section.
(e)
Transition provisions for mergers and acquisitions involving audit clients.
An accounting firm's independence will not be impaired because an audit client engages in a merger or acquisition that gives rise to a relationship or service that is inconsistent with this rule, provided that:
(1) The accounting firm is in compliance with the applicable independence standards related to such services or relationships when the services or relationships originated and throughout the period in which the applicable independence standards apply;
(2) The accounting firm has or will address such services or relationships promptly under relevant circumstances as a result of the occurrence of the merger or acquisition;
(3) The accounting firm has in place a quality control system as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section that has the following features:
(i) Procedures and controls that monitor the audit client's merger and acquisition activity to provide timely notice of a merger or acquisition; and
(ii) Procedures and controls that allow for prompt identification of such services or relationships after initial notification of a potential merger or acquisition that may trigger independence violations, but before the effective date of the transaction.
(f)
Definitions of terms.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Accountant,
as used in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, means a registered public accounting firm, certified public accountant or public accountant performing services in connection with an engagement for which independence is required. References to the accountant include any accounting firm with which the certified public accountant or public accountant is affiliated.
(2)
Accounting firm
means an organization (whether it is a sole proprietorship, incorporated association, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, or other legal entity) that is engaged in the practice of public accounting and furnishes reports or other documents filed with the Commission or otherwise prepared under the securities laws, and all of the organization's departments, divisions, parents, subsidiaries, and associated entities, including those located outside of the United States. Accounting firm also includes the organization's pension, retirement, investment, or similar plans.
(3)(i)
Accounting role
means a role in which a person is in a position to or does exercise more than minimal influence over the contents of the accounting records or anyone who prepares them.
(ii)
Financial reporting oversight role
means a role in which a person is in a position to or does exercise influence over the contents of the financial statements or anyone who prepares them, such as when the person is a member of the board of directors or similar management or governing body, chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, general counsel, chief accounting officer, controller, director of internal audit, director of financial reporting, treasurer, or any equivalent position.
(4)
Affiliate of the audit client
means:
(i) An entity that has control over the entity under audit, or over which the entity under audit has control, including the entity under audit's parents and subsidiaries;
(ii) An entity that is under common control with the entity under audit, including the entity under audit's parents and subsidiaries, when the entity and the entity under audit are each material to the controlling entity;
(iii) An entity over which the audit client has significant influence, unless the entity is not material to the audit client;
(iv) An entity that has significant influence over the audit client, unless the audit client is not material to the entity; or
(v) Each entity in the investment company complex as determined in paragraph (f)(14) of this section when the entity under audit is an investment company or investment adviser or sponsor, as those terms are defined in paragraphs (f)(14)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section.
(5)
Audit and professional engagement period
includes both:
(i) The period covered by any financial statements being audited or reviewed (the “audit period”); and
(ii) The period of the engagement to audit or review the audit client's financial statements or to prepare a report filed with the Commission (the “professional engagement period”):
(A) The professional engagement period begins when the accountant either signs an initial engagement letter (or other agreement to review or audit a client's financial statements) or begins audit, review, or attest procedures, whichever is earlier; and
(B) The professional engagement period ends when the audit client or the accountant notifies the Commission that the client is no longer that accountant's audit client.
(iii) The “audit and professional engagement period” does not include periods ended prior to the first day of the last fiscal year before the issuer first filed, or was required to file, a registration statement or report with the Commission, provided there has been full compliance with applicable independence standards in all prior periods covered by any registration statement or report filed with the Commission.
(6)
Audit client
means the entity whose financial statements or other information is being audited, reviewed, or attested to and any affiliates of the audit client, other than, for purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, entities that are affiliates of the audit client only by virtue of paragraphs
(f)(4)(iii), (f)(4)(iv), or (f)(14)(i)(E) of this section.
(7)(i)
Audit engagement team
means all partners, principals, shareholders and professional employees participating in an audit, review, or attestation engagement of an audit client, including audit partners and all persons who consult with others on the audit engagement team during the audit, review, or attestation engagement regarding technical or industry-specific issues, transactions, or events.
(ii)
Audit partner
means a partner or persons in an equivalent position, other than a partner who consults with others on the audit engagement team during the audit, review, or attestation engagement regarding technical or industry-specific issues, transactions, or events, who is a member of the audit engagement team who has responsibility for decision-making on significant auditing, accounting, and reporting matters that affect the financial statements, or who maintains regular contact with management and the audit committee and includes the following:
(A) The lead or coordinating audit partner having primary responsibility for the audit or review (the “lead partner”);
(B) The partner conducting a quality review under applicable professional standards and any applicable rules of the Commission to evaluate the significant judgments and the related conclusions reached in forming the overall conclusion on the audit or review engagement (“Engagement Quality Reviewer” or “Engagement Quality Control Reviewer”);
(C) Other audit engagement team partners who provide more than ten hours of audit, review, or attest services in connection with the annual or interim consolidated financial statements of the issuer or an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8); and
(D) Other audit engagement team partners who serve as the “lead partner” in connection with any audit or review related to the annual or interim financial statements of a subsidiary of the issuer whose assets or revenues constitute 20% or more of the assets or revenues of the issuer's respective consolidated assets or revenues.
(8)
Chain of command
means all persons who:
(i) Supervise or have direct management responsibility for the audit, including at all successively senior levels through the accounting firm's chief executive;
(ii) Evaluate the performance or recommend the compensation of the audit engagement partner; or
(iii) Provide quality control or other oversight of the audit.
(9)
Close family members
means a person's spouse, spousal equivalent, parent, dependent, nondependent child, and sibling.
(10)
Contingent fee
means, except as stated in the next sentence, any fee established for the sale of a product or the performance of any service pursuant to an arrangement in which no fee will be charged unless a specified finding or result is attained, or in which the amount of the fee is otherwise dependent upon the finding or result of such product or service. Solely for the purposes of this section, a fee is not a “contingent fee” if it is fixed by courts or other public authorities, or, in tax matters, if determined based on the results of judicial proceedings or the findings of governmental agencies. Fees may vary depending, for example, on the complexity of services rendered.
(11)
Covered persons in the firm
means the following partners, principals, shareholders, and employees of an accounting firm:
(i) The “audit engagement team”;
(ii) The “chain of command”;
(iii) Any other partner, principal, shareholder, or managerial employee of the accounting firm who has provided ten or more hours of non-audit services to the audit client for the period beginning on the date such services are provided and ending on the date the accounting firm signs the report on the financial statements for the fiscal year during which those services are provided, or who expects to provide ten or more hours of non-audit services to the audit client on a recurring basis; and
(iv) Any other partner, principal, or shareholder from an “office” of the accounting firm in which the lead audit
engagement partner primarily practices in connection with the audit.
(12)
Group
means two or more persons who act together for the purposes of acquiring, holding, voting, or disposing of securities of a registrant.
(13)
Immediate family members
means a person's spouse, spousal equivalent, and dependents.
(14)
Investment company complex.
(i) “Investment company complex” includes:
(A) An entity under audit that is an:
(
1
) Investment company; or
(
2
) Investment adviser or sponsor;
(B) The investment adviser or sponsor of any investment company identified in paragraph (f)(14)(i)(A)(
1
) of this section;
(C) Any entity controlled by or controlling:
(1)
An entity under audit identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(A) of this section, or
(2)
An investment adviser or sponsor identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(B) of this section. When the entity is controlled by an investment adviser or sponsor identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(B), such entity is included within the investment company complex if:
(i)
The entity and the entity under audit are each material to the investment adviser or sponsor identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(B) of this section; or
(ii)
The entity is engaged in the business of providing administrative, custodial, underwriting, or transfer agent services to any entity identified by paragraphs (f)(14)(i)(A) or (B) of this section;
(D) Any entity under common control with an entity under audit identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(A) of this section, any investment adviser or sponsor identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(B) of this section, or any entity identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(C) of this section; if the entity:
(1)
Is an investment company or an investment adviser or sponsor, when the entity and the entity under audit identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(A) of this section are each material to the controlling entity; or
(2)
Is engaged in the business of providing administrative, custodian, underwriting, or transfer agent services to any entity identified by paragraphs (f)(14)(i)(A) and (f)(14)(i)(B) of this section;
(E) Any entity over which an entity under audit identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(A) of this section has significant influence, unless the entity is not material to the entity under audit identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(A) of this section, or any entity that has significant influence over an entity under audit identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(A) of this section, unless the entity under audit identified by paragraph (f)(14)(i)(A) of this section is not material to the entity that has significant influence over it; and
(F) Any investment company that has an investment adviser or sponsor included in this definition by paragraphs (f)(14)(i)(A) through (f)(14)(i)(D) of this section.
(ii) An investment company, for purposes of paragraph (f)(14) of this section, means any investment company or an entity that would be an investment company but for the exclusions provided by Section 3(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)).
(iii) An investment adviser, for purposes of this definition, does not include a subadviser whose role is primarily portfolio management and is subcontracted with or overseen by another investment adviser.
(iv) Sponsor, for purposes of this definition, is an entity that establishes a unit investment trust.
(15)
Office
means a distinct sub-group within an accounting firm, whether distinguished along geographic or practice lines.
(16)
Rabbi trust
means an irrevocable trust whose assets are not accessible to the accounting firm until all benefit obligations have been met, but are subject to the claims of creditors in bankruptcy or insolvency.
(17)
Audit committee
means a committee (or equivalent body) as defined in section 3(a)(58) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(58)).
[37 FR 14594, July 21, 1972, as amended at 48 FR 9521, Mar. 7, 1983; 65 FR 76082, Dec. 5, 2000; 68 FR 6044, Feb. 5, 2003; 70 FR 1593, Jan. 7, 2005; 83 FR 50198, Oct. 4, 2018; 84 FR 32060, July 5, 2019; 86 FR 80541, Dec. 11, 2020]
§ 210.2-02
Accountants' reports and attestation reports.
(a)
Technical requirements for accountants' reports.
The accountant's report:
(1) Shall be dated;
(2) Shall be signed manually;
(3) Shall indicate the city and State where issued; and
(4) Shall identify without detailed enumeration the financial statements covered by the report.
(b)
Representations as to the audit included in accountants' reports.
The accountant's report:
(1) Shall state the applicable professional standards under which the audit was conducted; and
(2) Shall designate any auditing procedures deemed necessary by the accountant under the circumstances of the particular case, which have been omitted, and the reasons for their omission. Nothing in this rule shall be construed to imply authority for the omission of any procedure which independent accountants would ordinarily employ in the course of an audit made for the purpose of expressing the opinions required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Opinions to be expressed in accountants' reports.
The accountant's report shall state clearly:
(1) The opinion of the accountant in respect of the financial statements covered by the report and the accounting principles and practices reflected therein; and
(2) the opinion of the accountant as to the consistency of the application of the accounting principles, or as to any changes in such principles which have a material effect on the financial statements.
(d)
Exceptions identified in accountants' reports.
Any matters to which the accountant takes exception shall be clearly identified, the exception thereto specifically and clearly stated, and, to the extent practicable, the effect of each such exception on the related financial statements given. (See section 101 of the Codification of Financial Reporting Policies.)
(e) Paragraph (e) of this section applies only to registrants that are providing financial statements in a filing for a period with respect to which Arthur Andersen LLP or a foreign affiliate of Arthur Andersen LLP (“Andersen”) issued an accountants' report. Notwithstanding any other Commission rule or regulation, a registrant that cannot obtain an accountants' report that meets the technical requirements of paragraph (a) of this section after reasonable efforts may include in the document a copy of the latest signed and dated accountants' report issued by Andersen for such period in satisfaction of that requirement, if prominent disclosure that the report is a copy of the previously issued Andersen accountants' report and that the report has not been reissued by Andersen is set forth on such copy.
(f)
Attestation report on internal control over financial reporting.
(1) Every registered public accounting firm that issues or prepares an accountant's report for a registrant, other than a registrant that is neither an accelerated filer nor a large accelerated filer (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter), or is an emerging growth company, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter), or an investment company registered under Section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), that is included in an annual report required by section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
) containing an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the registrant's internal control over financial reporting must include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting.
(2) If an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting is included in an annual report required by section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), it shall clearly state the opinion of the accountant, either unqualified or adverse, as to whether the registrant maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting, except in the rare circumstance of a scope limitation that cannot be overcome by the registrant or the registered public accounting firm which would result in the accounting firm disclaiming an opinion. The attestation report on internal control over financial reporting
shall be dated, signed manually, identify the period covered by the report and indicate that the accountant has audited the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The attestation report on internal control over financial reporting may be separate from the accountant's report.
(g)
Attestation report on assessment of compliance with servicing criteria for asset-backed securities.
The attestation report on assessment of compliance with servicing criteria for asset-backed securities, as required by § 240.13a-18(c) or § 240.15d-18(c) of this chapter, shall be dated, signed manually, identify the period covered by the report and clearly state the opinion of the registered public accounting firm as to whether the asserting party's assessment of compliance with the servicing criteria is fairly stated in all material respects, or must include an opinion to the effect that an overall opinion cannot be expressed. If an overall opinion cannot be expressed, explain why.
[37 FR 14594, July 21, 1972, as amended at 41 FR 35479, Aug. 23, 1976; 45 FR 63668, Sept. 25, 1980; 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 67 FR 13533, Mar. 22, 2002; 68 FR 36660, June 18, 2003; 70 FR 1593, Jan. 7, 2005; 72 FR 35321, June 27, 2007; 75 FR 57387, Sept. 21, 2010; 82 FR 17551, Apr. 12, 2017; 83 FR 50198, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.2-03
Examination of financial statements by foreign government auditors.
Notwithstanding any requirements as to examination by independent accountants, the financial statements of any foreign governmental agency may be examined by the regular and customary auditing staff of the respective government if public financial statements of such governmental agency are customarily examined by such auditing staff.
§ 210.2-04
Examination of financial statements of persons other than the registrant.
If a registrant is required to file financial statements of any other person, such statements need not be examined if examination of such statements would not be required if such person were itself a registrant.
§ 210.2-05
Examination of financial statements by more than one accountant.
If, with respect to the examination of the financial statements, part of the examination is made by an independent accountant other than the principal accountant and the principal accountant elects to place reliance on the work of the other accountant and makes reference to that effect in his report, the separate report of the other accountant shall be filed. However, notwithstanding the provisions of this section, reports of other accountants which may otherwise be required in filings need not be presented in annual reports to security holders furnished pursuant to the proxy and information statement rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [§§ 240.14a-3 and 240.14c-3].
[46 FR 40872, Aug. 13, 1981]
§ 210.2-06
Retention of audit and review records.
(a) For a period of seven years after an accountant concludes an audit or review of an issuer's financial statements to which section 10A(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j-1(a)) applies, or of the financial statements of any investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), the accountant shall retain records relevant to the audit or review, including workpapers and other documents that form the basis of the audit or review, and memoranda, correspondence, communications, other documents, and records (including electronic records), which:
(1) Are created, sent or received in connection with the audit or review, and
(2) Contain conclusions, opinions, analyses, or financial data related to the audit or review.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
workpapers
means documentation of auditing or review procedures applied, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached by the accountant in the audit or review engagement, as required by standards established or adopted by the Commission or by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
(c) Memoranda, correspondence, communications, other documents, and records (including electronic records) described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be retained whether they support the auditor's final conclusions regarding the audit or review, or contain information or data, relating to a significant matter, that is inconsistent with the auditor's final conclusions regarding that matter or the audit or review. Significance of a matter shall be determined based on an objective analysis of the facts and circumstances. Such documents and records include, but are not limited to, those documenting a consultation on or resolution of differences in professional judgment.
(d) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term
issuer
means an issuer as defined in section 10A(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j-1(f)).
[68 FR 4872, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 210.2-07
Communication with audit committees.
(a) Each registered public accounting firm that performs for an audit client that is an issuer (as defined in section 10A(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j-1(f))), other than an issuer that is an Asset-Backed Issuer as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter, or an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), other than a unit investment trust as defined by section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-4(2)), any audit required under the securities laws shall report, prior to the filing of such audit report with the Commission (or in the case of a registered investment company, annually, and if the annual communication is not within 90 days prior to the filing, provide an update, in the 90 day period prior to the filing, of any changes to the previously reported information), to the audit committee of the issuer or registered investment company:
(1) All critical accounting policies and practices to be used;
(2) All alternative treatments within Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for policies and practices related to material items that have been discussed with management of the issuer or registered investment company, including:
(i) Ramifications of the use of such alternative disclosures and treatments; and
(ii) The treatment preferred by the registered public accounting firm;
(3) Other material written communications between the registered public accounting firm and the management of the issuer or registered investment company, such as any management letter or schedule of unadjusted differences;
(4) If the audit client is an investment company, all non-audit services provided to any entity in an investment company complex, as defined in § 210.2-01 (f)(14), that were not pre-approved by the registered investment company's audit committee pursuant to § 210.2-01 (c)(7).
(b) [Reserved]
[68 FR 6048, Feb. 5, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 1593, Jan. 7, 2005]

# General Instructions as to Financial Statements

# Source:
Sections 210.3-01 through 210.3-16 appear at 45 FR 63687, Sept. 25, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Note:
These instructions specify the balance sheets and statements of income and cash flows to be included in disclosure documents prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X. Other portions of Regulation S-X govern the examination, form and content of such financial statements, including the basis of consolidation and the schedules to be filed. The financial statements described below shall be audited unless otherwise indicated.
For filings under the Securities Act of 1933, attention is directed to § 230.411(b) regarding incorporation by reference to financial statements and to section 10(a)(3) of the Act regarding information required in the prospectus.
For filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, attention is directed to § 240.12b-23 regarding incorporation by reference and § 240.12b-36 regarding use of financial statements filed under other acts.
[45 FR 63687, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 45292, Oct. 1, 1992]
§ 210.3-01
Consolidated balance sheets.
(a) There must be filed, for the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated and for its predecessors, audited balance sheets as of the end of each of the two most recent fiscal years. If the registrant has been in existence for less than one fiscal year, there must be filed an audited balance sheet as of a date within 135 days of the date of filing the registration statement.
(b) If the filing, other than a filing on Form 10-K or Form 10, is made within 45 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year and audited financial statements for the most recent fiscal year are not available, the balance sheets may be as of the end of the two preceding fiscal years and the filing shall include an additional balance sheet as of an interim date at least as current as the end of the registrant's third fiscal quarter of the most recently completed fiscal year.
(c) The instruction in paragraph (b) of this section is also applicable to filings, other than on Form 10-K or Form 10, made after 45 days but within the number of days of the end of the registrant's fiscal year specified in paragraph (i) of this section:
Provided,
that the following conditions are met:
(1) The registrant files annual, quarterly and other reports pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and all reports due have been filed;
(2) For the most recent fiscal year for which audited financial statements are not yet available the registrant reasonably and in good faith expects to report income attributable to the registrant, after taxes; and
(3) For at least one of the two fiscal years immediately preceding the most recent fiscal year the registrant reported income attributable to the registrant, after taxes.
(d) For filings made after 45 days but within the number of days of the end of the registrant's fiscal year specified in paragraph (i) of this section where the conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of this section are not met, the filing must include the audited balance sheets required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) For filings made after the number of days specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the filing shall also include a balance sheet as of an interim date within the following number of days of the date of filing:
(1) 130 days for large accelerated filers and accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter); and
(2) 135 days for all other registrants.
(f) Any interim balance sheet provided in accordance with the requirements of this section may be unaudited and need not be presented in greater detail than is required by § 210.10-01. Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, the most recent interim balance sheet included in a filing shall be at least as current as the most recent balance sheet filed with the Commission on Form 10-Q.
(g) For filings by registered management investment companies, the requirements of § 210.3-18 shall apply in lieu of the requirements of this section.
(h) Any foreign private issuer, other than a registered management investment company or an employee plan, may file the financial statements required by Item 8.A of Form 20-F (§ 249.220 of this chapter) in lieu of the financial statements specified in this rule.
(i)(1) For purposes of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the number of days shall be:
(i) 60 days (75 days for fiscal years ending before December 15, 2006) for large accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter);
(ii) 75 days for accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter); and
(iii) 90 days for all other registrants.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the number of days shall be:
(i) 129 days subsequent to the end of the registrant's most recent fiscal year for large accelerated filers and accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter); and
(ii) 134 days subsequent to the end of the registrant's most recent fiscal year for all other registrants.
[45 FR 63687, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 12491, Feb. 17, 1981; 46 FR 36124, July 14, 1981; 50 FR 49531, Dec. 3, 1985; 56 FR 30053, July 1, 1991; 64 FR 53908, Oct. 5, 1999; 67 FR 58503, Sept. 16, 2002; 68 FR 17880, Apr. 14, 2003; 69 FR 68235, Nov. 23, 2004; 70 FR 76640, Dec. 27, 2005; 73 FR 952, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 18614, Apr. 23, 2009]; 83 FR 50198, Oct. 4, 2018; 89 FR 14313, Feb. 26, 2024]
§ 210.3-02
Consolidated statements of comprehensive income and cash flows.
(a) There shall be filed, for the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated and for its predecessors, audited statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent audited balance sheet being filed or such shorter period as the registrant (including predecessors) has been in existence. A registrant that is an emerging growth company, as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter (Rule 405 of the Securities Act) or § 240.12b-2 of this chapter (Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act), may, in a Securities Act registration statement for the initial public offering of the emerging growth company's equity securities, provide audited statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent audited balance sheet (or such shorter period as the registrant has been in existence).
(b) In addition, for any interim period between the latest audited balance sheet and the date of the most recent interim balance sheet being filed, and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year, statements of comprehensive income and cash flows shall be provided. Such interim financial statements may be unaudited and need not be presented in greater detail than is required by § 210.10-01.
(c) For filings by registered management investment companies, the requirements of § 210.3-18 shall apply in lieu of the requirements of this section.
(d) Any foreign private issuer, other than a registered management investment company or an employee plan, may file the financial statements required by Item 8.A of Form 20-F (§ 249.220 of this chapter) in lieu of the financial statements specified in this rule.
[45 FR 63687, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 12491, Feb. 17, 1981; 46 FR 36125, July 14, 1981; 50 FR 49531, Dec. 3, 1985; 56 FR 30053, July 1, 1991; 57 FR 45292, Oct. 1, 1992; 64 FR 53908, Oct. 5, 1999; 82 FR 17551, Apr. 12, 2017; 83 FR 50198, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.3-03
Instructions to statement of comprehensive income requirements.
(a) The statements required shall be prepared in compliance with the applicable requirements of this regulation.
(b) If the registrant is engaged primarily—
(1) In the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity, the manufacture, mixing, transmission or distribution of gas, the supplying or distribution of water, or the furnishing of telephone or telegraph service; or
(2) In holding securities of companies engaged in such businesses, it may at its option include statements of comprehensive income and cash flows (which may be unaudited) for the twelve-month period ending on the date of the most recent balance sheet being filed, in lieu of the statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods specified.
(c) If a period or periods reported on include operations of a business prior to the date of acquisition, or for other reasons differ from reports previously issued for any period, the statements shall be reconciled as to sales or revenues and net income in the statement or in a note thereto with the amounts previously reported:
Provided, however,
That such reconciliations need not be made (1) if they have been made in filings with the Commission in prior years or (2) the financial statements which are being retroactively adjusted have not previously been filed with the Commission or otherwise made public.
(d) Any unaudited interim financial statements furnished shall reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. A statement to that effect shall be included. If all
such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature, a statement to that effect shall be made; otherwise, there shall be furnished information describing in appropriate detail the nature and amount of any adjustments other than normal recurring adjustments entering into the determination of the results shown.
[45 FR 63687, Sept. 25, 1980. Redesignated at 47 FR 29836, July 9, 1982, and amended at 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 50 FR 49532, Dec. 3, 1985; 57 FR 45292, Oct. 1, 1992; 64 FR 1734, Jan. 12, 1999; 83 FR 50198, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.3-04
Changes in stockholders' equity and noncontrolling interests.
An analysis of the changes in each caption of stockholders' equity and noncontrolling interests presented in the balance sheets shall be given in a note or separate statement. This analysis shall be presented in the form of a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed with all significant reconciling items described by appropriate captions with contributions from and distributions to owners shown separately. Also, state separately the adjustments to the balance at the beginning of the earliest period presented for items which were retroactively applied to periods prior to that period. With respect to any dividends, state the amount per share and in the aggregate for each class of shares. Provide a separate schedule in the notes to the financial statements that shows the effects of any changes in the registrant's ownership interest in a subsidiary on the equity attributable to the registrant.
[83 FR 50199, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.3-05
Financial statements of businesses acquired or to be acquired.
(a)
Financial statements required.
(1) Financial statements (except the related schedules specified in § 210.12) prepared and audited in accordance with Regulation S-X (including the independence standards in § 210.2-01 or, alternatively if the business is not a registrant, the applicable independence standards) must be filed for the periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section if any of the following conditions exist:
(i) During the most recent fiscal year or subsequent interim period for which a balance sheet is required by § 210.3-01, a business acquisition has occurred; or
(ii) After the date of the most recent balance sheet filed pursuant to § 210.3-01, consummation of a business acquisition has occurred or is probable.
(2) For purposes of determining whether the provisions of this section apply:
(i) The determination of whether a
business
has been acquired should be made in accordance with the guidance set forth in § 210.11-01(d); and
(ii) The acquisition of a business encompasses the acquisition of an interest in a business accounted for by the registrant under the equity method or, in lieu of the equity method, the fair value option.
(3) Acquisitions of a group of related businesses that are probable or that have occurred subsequent to the latest fiscal year-end for which audited financial statements of the registrant have been filed must be treated under this section as if they are a single business acquisition. The required financial statements of related businesses may be presented on a combined basis for any periods they are under common control or management. For purposes of this section, businesses will be deemed to be related if:
(i) They are under common control or management;
(ii) The acquisition of one business is conditional on the acquisition of each other business; or
(iii) Each acquisition is conditioned on a single common event.
(4) This section does not apply to a real estate operation subject to § 210.3-14 or a business which is totally held by the registrant prior to consummation of the transaction.
(b)
Periods to be presented.
(1) If registering an offering of securities to the security holders of the business to be acquired, then the financial statements specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02 must be filed for the business to be acquired, except as provided otherwise for filings on Form N-14, S-4, or F-4 (§ 239.23, § 239.25, or § 239.34 of this chapter). The financial statements covering fiscal
years must be audited except as provided in Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) with respect to certain proxy statements or in registration statements filed on Forms N-14, S-4, or F-4 (§ 239.23, § 239.25, or § 239.34 of this chapter).
(2) In all cases not specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, financial statements of the business acquired or to be acquired must be filed for the periods specified in this paragraph (b)(2) or such shorter period as the business has been in existence. Determine the periods for which such financial statements are to be filed using the conditions specified in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w), using the lower of the total revenue component or income or loss from continuing operations component for evaluating the income test condition, as follows:
(i) If none of the conditions exceeds 20 percent, financial statements are not required.
(ii) If any of the conditions exceeds 20 percent, but none exceed 40 percent, financial statements must be filed for at least the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02.
(iii) If any of the conditions exceeds 40 percent, financial statements must be filed for at least the two most recent fiscal years and any interim periods specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02.
(iv) If the aggregate impact of businesses acquired or to be acquired since the date of the most recent audited balance sheet filed for the registrant, for which financial statements are either not required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section or are not yet required based on paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, exceeds 50 percent for any condition, the registrant must provide the disclosure specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section, however in determining the aggregate impact of the investment test condition also include the aggregate impact calculated in accordance with § 210.3-14(b)(2)(ii) of any acquired or to be acquired real estate operations specified in § 210.3-14(b)(2)(i)(C). In determining whether the income test condition (
i.e.
both the revenue component and the income or loss from continuing operations component) exceeds 50 percent, the businesses specified in this paragraph (b)(2)(iv) reporting losses must be aggregated separately from those reporting income. If either group exceeds 50 percent, paragraphs (b)(2)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section will apply to all of the businesses specified in this paragraph (b)(2)(iv) and will not be limited to either the businesses with losses or those with income.
(A) Pro forma financial information pursuant to §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-02 that depicts the aggregate impact of these acquired or to be acquired businesses and real estate operations, in all material respects; and
(B) Financial statements covering at least the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02 for any acquired or to be acquired business or real estate operation for which financial statements are not yet required based on paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section or § 210.3-14(b)(3)(i).
(3) The determination must be made using § 210.11-01(b)(3) and (4).
(4) Financial statements required for the periods specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be omitted to the extent specified as follows:
(i) Registration statements not subject to the provisions of § 230.419 of this chapter and proxy statements need not include separate financial statements of an acquired or to be acquired business if neither the business nor the aggregate impact specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section exceeds any of the conditions of significance in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02 at the 50 percent level computed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and either:
(A) The consummation of the acquisition has not yet occurred; or
(B) The date of the final prospectus or prospectus supplement relating to an offering as filed with the Commission pursuant to § 230.424(b) of this chapter, or mailing date in the case of a proxy statement, is no more than 74 days after consummation of the business acquisition, and the financial statements have not previously been filed by the registrant.
(ii) A registrant, other than a foreign private issuer required to file reports
on Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter) or a shell company (other than a business combination related shell company), that omits from its initial registration statement financial statements of a recently consummated business acquisition pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section must file those financial statements and any pro forma information specified by §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-03 (Article 11) under cover of Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) no later than 75 days after consummation of the acquisition. When a predecessor to a shell company (other than a business combination related shell company) acquires a business and the financial statements of that recently consummated business are omitted from a registration statement or proxy statement pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, refer to § 210.15-01(d)(2).
(iii) Separate financial statements of the acquired business specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section need not be presented once the operating results of the acquired business have been reflected in the audited consolidated financial statements of the registrant for at least nine months. Separate financial statements of the acquired business specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section need not be presented once the operating results of the acquired business have been reflected in the audited consolidated financial statements of the registrant for a complete fiscal year.
(iv) A separate audited balance sheet of the acquired business is not required when the registrant's most recent audited balance sheet required by § 210.3-01 is for a date after the date the acquisition was consummated.
(c)
Financial statements of a foreign business.
Financial statements of an acquired or to be acquired foreign business (as defined in § 210.1-02(l)) meeting the requirements of Item 17 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter) will satisfy this section. Such financial statements may be reconciled to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS-IASB) if the registrant is a foreign private issuer that prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS-IASB. This reconciliation must generally follow the form and content requirements in Item 17(c) of Form 20-F; however, accommodations in Item 17(c)(2) of Form 20-F that would be inconsistent with IFRS-IASB may not be applied, and IFRS 1,
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards,
may be applied.
(d)
Financial statements of an acquired or to be acquired business that would be a foreign private issuer if it were a registrant.
Financial statements of an acquired or to be acquired business that is not a foreign business (as defined in § 210.1-02(l)), but would qualify as a foreign private issuer (as defined in §§ 230.405 and 240.3b-4 of this chapter) if it were a registrant may be prepared in accordance with IFRS-IASB without reconciliation to U.S. GAAP or, if the registrant is a foreign private issuer that prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS-IASB, may be prepared according to a comprehensive basis of accounting principles other than U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB and must be reconciled to IFRS-IASB or to U.S. GAAP. This reconciliation must generally follow the form and content requirements in Item 17(c) of Form 20-F; however, accommodations in Item 17(c)(2) of Form 20-F that would be inconsistent with IFRS-IASB may not be applied, and IFRS 1,
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards,
may be applied.
(e)
Financial statements for net assets that constitute a business.
For an acquisition of net assets that constitutes a business (
e.g.,
an acquired or to be acquired product line), the financial statements prepared and audited in accordance with Regulation S-X may be abbreviated financial statements prepared in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section if the business meets all of the qualifying conditions in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(1)
Qualifying conditions.
(i) The total assets and total revenues (both after intercompany eliminations) of the acquired or to be acquired business constitute 20 percent or less of such corresponding amounts of the seller and its subsidiaries consolidated as of and for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(ii) Separate financial statements for the business have not previously been prepared;
(iii) The acquired business was not a separate entity, subsidiary, operating segment (as defined in U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable) or division during the periods for which the acquired business financial statements would be required; and
(iv) The seller has not maintained the distinct and separate accounts necessary to present financial statements that, absent this paragraph (e), would satisfy the requirements of this section and it is impracticable to prepare such financial statements.
(2)
Presentation requirements.
(i) The balance sheet may be a statement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed;
(ii) The statement of comprehensive income must include expenses incurred by or on behalf of the acquired business during the pre-acquisition financial statement periods to be presented including, but not limited to, costs of sales or services, selling, distribution, marketing, general and administrative, depreciation and amortization, and research and development, but may otherwise omit corporate overhead expense, interest expense for debt that will not be assumed by the registrant or its subsidiaries consolidated, and income tax expense. The title of the statement of comprehensive income must be appropriately modified to indicate it omits certain expenses; and
(iii) The notes to the financial statements must include:
(A) A description of the type of omitted expenses and the reason(s) why they are excluded from the financial statements.
(B) An explanation of the impracticability of preparing financial statements that include the omitted expenses.
(C) A description of how the financial statements presented are not indicative of the financial condition or results of operations of the acquired business going forward because of the omitted expenses.
(D) Information about the business's operating, investing and financing cash flows, to the extent available.
(f)
Financial statements of a business that includes oil and gas producing activities.
(1) Disclosures about oil and gas producing activities must be provided for each full year of operations presented for an acquired or to be acquired business that includes significant oil- and gas-producing activities (as defined in the FASB ASC Master Glossary). The financial statements may present the disclosures in FASB ASC Topic 932
Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas,
932-235-50-3 through 50-11 and 932-235-50-29 through 50-36 as unaudited supplemental information. If prior year reserve studies were not made, they may be computed using only production and new discovery quantities and valuation, in which case there will be no “revision of prior estimates” amounts. Registrants may develop these disclosures based on a reserve study for the most recent year, computing the changes backward. The method of computation must be disclosed in a footnote.
(2) The financial statements prepared and audited in accordance with Regulation S-X may consist of only statements of revenues and expenses that exclude expenses not comparable to the proposed future operations such as depreciation, depletion and amortization, corporate overhead, income taxes, and interest for debt that will not be assumed by the registrant or its subsidiaries consolidated if:
(i) The acquisition generates substantially all of its revenues from
oil and gas producing activities
(as defined in § 210.4-10(a)(16)); and
(ii) The qualifying conditions specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are met.
(3) If the financial statements are presented in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the disclosures specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section must be provided.
[85 FR 54060, Aug. 31, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 14313, Feb. 26, 2024]
§ 210.3-06
Financial statements covering a period of nine to twelve months.
(a) Except with respect to registered investment companies, the filing of financial statements covering a period of 9 to 12 months will be deemed to satisfy a requirement for filing financial statements for a period of 1 year where:
(1) The issuer has changed its fiscal year;
(2) The issuer has made a significant business acquisition for which financial statements are required under § 210.3-05, § 210.3-14, § 210.8-04, or § 210.8-06 and the financial statements covering the interim period pertain to the business being acquired; or
(3) The Commission so permits pursuant to § 210.3-13 or § 210.8-01(e).
(b) Where there is a requirement for filing financial statements for a time period exceeding one year but not exceeding three consecutive years (with not more than 12 months included in any period reported upon), the filing of financial statements covering a period of 9 to 12 months will satisfy a filing requirement of financial statements for one year of that time period only if the conditions described in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section exist and financial statements are filed that cover the full fiscal year or years for all other years in the time period.
[85 FR 54062, Aug. 31, 2020]
§§ 210.3-07—210.3-08
[Reserved]
§ 210.3-09
Separate financial statements of subsidiaries not consolidated and 50 percent or less owned persons.
(a) If any of the conditions set forth in § 210.1-02(w), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent in the tests used therein to determine a significant subsidiary, are met for a majority-owned subsidiary not consolidated by the registrant or by a subsidiary of the registrant, separate financial statements of such subsidiary must be filed. Similarly, if either the first or third condition set forth in § 210.1-02(w)(1), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent, is met by a 50 percent or less owned person accounted for by the equity method either by the registrant or a subsidiary of the registrant, separate financial statements of such 50 percent or less owned person must be filed.
(b) Insofar as practicable, the separate financial statements required by this section shall be as of the same dates and for the same periods as the audited consolidated financial statements required by §§ 210.3-01 and 3-02. However, these separate financial statements are required to be audited only for those fiscal years in which either the first or third condition set forth in § 210.1-02(w), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent, is met. For purposes of a filing on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter):
(1) If the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter) but the 50 percent or less owned person is not an accelerated filer, the required financial statements may be filed as an amendment to the report within 90 days, or within six months if the 50 percent or less owned person is a foreign business, after the end of the registrant's fiscal year.
(2) If the fiscal year of any 50 percent or less owned person ends within the
registrant's number of filing days
before the date of the filing, or if the fiscal year ends after the date of the filing, the required financial statements may be filed as an amendment to the report within the
subsidiary's number of filing days,
or within six months if the 50 percent or less owned person is a foreign business, after the end of such subsidiary's or person's fiscal year.
(3) The term
registrant's number of filing days
means:
(i) 60 days (75 days for fiscal years ending before December 15, 2006) if the registrant is a large accelerated filer;
(ii) 75 days if the registrant is an accelerated filer; and
(iii) 90 days for all other registrants.
(4) The term
subsidiary's number of filing days
means:
(i) 60 days (75 days for fiscal years ending before December 15, 2006) if the 50 percent or less owned person is a large accelerated filer;
(ii) 75 days if the 50 percent or less owned person is an accelerated filer; and
(iii) 90 days for all other 50 percent or less owned persons.
(c) Notwithstanding the requirements for separate financial statements in paragraph (a) of this section, where financial statements of two or more majority-owned subsidiaries not consolidated are required, combined or consolidated statements of such subsidiaries may be filed subject to principles of inclusion and exclusion which clearly exhibit the financial position, cash flows and results of operations of
the combined or consolidated group. Similarly, where financial statements of two or more 50 percent or less owned persons are required, combined or consolidated statements of such persons may be filed subject to the same principles of inclusion or exclusion referred to above.
(d) If the 50 percent or less owned person is a foreign business, financial statements of the business meeting the requirements of Item 17 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter) will satisfy this section.
[46 FR 56179, Nov. 16, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 29837, July 9, 1982; 57 FR 45292, Oct. 1, 1992; 59 FR 65636, Dec. 20, 1994; 67 FR 58504, Sept. 16, 2002; 69 FR 68235, Nov. 23, 2004; 70 FR 76640, Dec. 27, 2005; 85 FR 54062, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.3-10
Financial statements of guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities registered or being registered.
(a) If an issuer or guarantor of a guaranteed security that is registered or being registered is required to file financial statements required by Regulation S-X with respect to the guarantee or guaranteed security, such financial statements may be omitted if the issuer or guarantor is a consolidated subsidiary of the parent company, the parent company's consolidated financial statements have been filed, and the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section have been met:
(1) The guaranteed security is debt or debt-like; and
(i) The parent company issues the security or co-issues the security, jointly and severally, with one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries; or
(ii) A consolidated subsidiary issues the security or co-issues the security with one or more other consolidated subsidiaries of the parent company, and the security is guaranteed fully and unconditionally by the parent company; and
(2) The parent company provides the disclosures specified in § 210.13-01.
(b) For the purposes of this section and § 210.13-01:
(1) The “parent company” is the entity that:
(i) Is an issuer or guarantor of the guaranteed security;
(ii) Is, or as a result of the subject Securities Act registration statement will be, an Exchange Act reporting company; and
(iii) Consolidates each subsidiary issuer and/or subsidiary guarantor of the guaranteed security in its consolidated financial statements.
(2) A security is “debt or debt-like” if it has the following characteristics:
(i) The issuer has a contractual obligation to pay a fixed sum at a fixed time; and
(ii) Where the obligation to make such payments is cumulative, a set amount of interest must be paid.
Note 1 to paragraph (b)(2).
Neither the form of the security nor its title will determine whether a security is debt or debt-like. Instead, the substance of the obligation created by the security will be determinative.
Note 2 to paragraph (b)(2).
The phrase “set amount of interest” is not intended to mean “fixed amount of interest.” Floating and adjustable rate securities, as well as indexed securities, may meet the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section as long as the payment obligation is set in the debt instrument and can be determined from objective indices or other factors that are outside the discretion of the obligor.
(3) A guarantee is “full and unconditional,” if, when an issuer of a guaranteed security has failed to make a scheduled payment, the guarantor is obligated to make the scheduled payment immediately and, if it does not, any holder of the guaranteed security may immediately bring suit directly against the guarantor for payment of all amounts due and payable.
[85 FR 21999, Apr. 20, 2020]
§ 210.3-11
Financial statements of an inactive registrant.
If a registrant is an inactive entity as defined below, the financial statements required by this regulation for purposes of reports pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 may be unaudited. An inactive entity is one meeting all of the following conditions:
(a) Gross receipts from all sources for the fiscal year are not in excess of $100,000;
(b) The registrant has not purchased or sold any of its own stock, granted
options therefor, or levied assessments upon outstanding stock,
(c) Expenditures for all purposes for the fiscal year are not in excess of $100,000;
(d) No material change in the business has occurred during the fiscal year, including any bankruptcy, reorganization, readjustment or succession or any material acquisition or disposition of plants, mines, mining equipment, mine rights or leases; and
(e) No exchange upon which the shares are listed, or governmental authority having jurisdiction, requires the furnishing to it or the publication of audited financial statements.
§ 210.3-12
Age of financial statements at effective date of registration statement or at mailing date of proxy statement.
(a) If the financial statements in a filing are as of a date the number of days specified in paragraph (g) of this section or more before the date the filing is expected to become effective, or proposed mailing date in the case of a proxy statement, the financial statements shall be updated, except as specified in the following paragraphs, with a balance sheet as of an interim date within the number of days specified in paragraph (g) of this section and with statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim period between the end of the most recent fiscal year and the date of the interim balance sheet provided and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year. Such interim financial statements may be unaudited and need not be presented in greater detail than is required by § 210.10-01. Notwithstanding the above requirements, the most recent interim financial statements shall be at least as current as the most recent financial statements filed with the Commission on Form 10-Q.
(b) Where the anticipated effective date of a filing, or in the case of a proxy statement the proposed mailing date, falls within the number of days subsequent to the end of the fiscal year specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the filing need not include financial statements more current than as of the end of the third fiscal quarter of the most recently completed fiscal year unless the audited financial statements for such fiscal year are available or unless the anticipated effective date or proposed mailing date falls after 45 days subsequent to the end of the fiscal year and the registrant does not meet the conditions prescribed under paragraph (c) of § 210.3-01. If the anticipated effective date or proposed mailing date falls after 45 days subsequent to the end of the fiscal year and the registrant does not meet the conditions prescribed under paragraph (c) of § 210.3-01, the filing must include audited financial statements for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(c) Where a filing is made near the end of a fiscal year and audited financial statements for that fiscal year are not included in the filing, the filing shall be updated with such audited financial statements if they become available prior to the anticipated effective date, or proposed mailing date in the case of a proxy statement.
(d) The age of the registrant's most recent audited financial statements included in a registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or filed on Form 10 (17 CFR 249.210) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall not be more than one year and 45 days old at the date the registration statement becomes effective if the registration statement relates to the security of an issuer that was not subject, immediately before the time of filing the registration statement, to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(e) For filings by registered management investment companies, the requirements of § 210.3-18 shall apply in lieu of the requirements of this section.
(f) Any foreign private issuer may file financial statements whose age is specified in Item 8.A of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter). Financial statements of a foreign business which are furnished pursuant to § 210.3-05 or § 210.3-09 because it is an acquired business or a 50 percent or less owned person may be of the age specified in Item 8.A of Form 20-F.
(g)(1) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the number of days shall be:
(i) 130 days for large accelerated filers and accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter); and
(ii) 135 days for all other registrants.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the number of days shall be:
(i) 60 days (75 days for fiscal years ending before December 15, 2006) for large accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter);
(ii) 75 days for accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter); and
(iii) 90 days for all other registrants.
[45 FR 62687, Sept. 25, 1980]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 210.3-12, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 210.3-13
Filing of other financial statements in certain cases.
The Commission may, upon the informal written request of the registrant, and where consistent with the protection of investors, permit the omission of one or more of the financial statements herein required or the filing in substitution therefor of appropriate statements of comparable character. The Commission may also by informal written notice require the filing of other financial statements in addition to, or in substitution for, the statements herein required in any case where such statements are necessary or appropriate for an adequate presentation of the financial condition of any person whose financial statements are required, or whose statements are otherwise necessary for the protection of investors.
§ 210.3-14
Special instructions for financial statements of real estate operations acquired or to be acquired.
(a)
Financial statements required.
(1) Financial statements (except the related schedules specified in § 210.12) prepared and audited in accordance with Regulation S-X (including the independence standards in § 210.2-01 or, alternatively if the real estate operation is not a registrant, the applicable independence standards) for the periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (f) of this section must be filed if any of the following conditions exist:
(i) During the most recent fiscal year or subsequent interim period for which a balance sheet is required by § 210.3-01, an acquisition of a real estate operation has occurred; or
(ii) After the date of the most recent balance sheet filed pursuant to § 210.3-01, consummation of an acquisition of a real estate operation has occurred or is probable.
(2) For purposes of determining whether the provisions of this section apply:
(i) The term
real estate operation
means a business (as set forth in § 210.11-01(d)) that generates substantially all of its revenues through the leasing of real property.
(ii) The acquisition of a real estate operation encompasses the acquisition of an interest in a real estate operation accounted for by the registrant under the equity method or, in lieu of the equity method, the fair value option.
(3) Acquisitions of a group of related real estate operations that are probable or that have occurred subsequent to the latest fiscal year-end for which audited financial statements of the registrant have been filed will be treated under this section as if they are a single acquisition. The required financial statements may be presented on a combined basis for any periods they are under common control or management. For purposes of this section, acquisitions will be deemed to be related if:
(i) They are under common control or management;
(ii) A registrant, other than a foreign private issuer required to file reports on Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter) or shell company (other than a business combination related shell company), that omits from its initial registration statement financial statements of a recently consummated acquisition of a real estate operation pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section must file those financial statements and any pro forma information specified by §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-03 (Article 11) under cover of Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) no later than 75 days after consummation of the acquisition. When a predecessor to a shell
company (other than a business combination related shell company) acquires a real estate operation and the financial statements of that recently consummated acquisition of a real estate operation are omitted from a registration statement or proxy statement pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, refer to § 210.15-01(d)(2).
(iii) Each acquisition is conditioned on a single common event.
(4) This section does not apply to a real estate operation that is totally held by the registrant prior to consummation of the transaction.
(b)
Periods to be presented.
(1) If registering an offering of securities to the security holders of the real estate operation to be acquired, then the financial statements specified in paragraph (c) of this section and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (f) of this section must be filed for the real estate operation to be acquired for the periods specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02, except as provided otherwise for filings on Form S-4 or F-4 (§ 239.25 or § 239.34 of this chapter). The financial statements covering fiscal years must be audited except as provided in Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) with respect to certain proxy statements or in registration statements filed on Form S-4 or F-4 (§ 239.25 or § 239.34 of this chapter).
(2) In all cases not specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, financial statements of the real estate operation acquired or to be acquired must be filed for the periods specified in this paragraph (b)(2) or such shorter period as the real estate operation has been in existence. The periods for which such financial statements are to be filed must be determined using the investment test condition specified in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w)(1)(i) modified as follows:
(i)(A) If the condition does not exceed 20 percent, financial statements are not required.
(B) If the condition exceeds 20 percent, financial statements of the real estate operation for at least the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02 must be filed.
(C) If the aggregate impact of acquired or to be acquired real estate operations since the date of the most recent audited balance sheet filed for the registrant, for which financial statements are either not required by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section or are not yet required based on paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, exceeds 50 percent, the registrant must provide the disclosures specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) and (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section. If there are also businesses acquired or to be acquired as described in § 210.3-05(b)(2)(iv), the requirements in § 210.3-05(b)(2)(iv) will apply instead.
(
1
) Pro forma financial information pursuant to §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-02 that depicts the aggregate impact of these acquired or to be acquired real estate operations in all material respects; and
(
2
) Financial statements covering at least the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02 for any acquired or to be acquired real estate operation for which financial statements are not yet required based on paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(ii) When the investment test is based on the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated, include any assumed debt secured by the real properties in the “investments in” the tested real estate operation.
(iii) The determination must be made using § 210.11-01(b)(3) and (4).
(3) Financial statements required for the periods specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be omitted to the extent specified as follows:
(i) Registration statements not subject to the provisions of § 230.419 of this chapter and proxy statements need not include separate financial statements of the acquired or to be acquired real estate operation if neither the real estate operation nor the aggregate impact specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section exceeds the condition of significance in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w)(1)(i), as modified by paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, at the 50 percent level computed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and either:
(A) The consummation of the acquisition has not yet occurred; or
(B) The date of the final prospectus or prospectus supplement relating to an offering as filed with the Commission pursuant to § 230.424(b) of this chapter, or mailing date in the case of a proxy statement, is no more than 74 days after consummation of the acquisition of the real estate operation, and the financial statements have not previously been filed by the registrant.
(ii) A registrant, other than a foreign private issuer required to file reports on Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter), that omits from its initial registration statement financial statements of a recently consummated acquisition of a real estate operation pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section must file those financial statements and any pro forma information specified by §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-03 (Article 11) under cover of Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) no later than 75 days after consummation of the acquisition.
(iii) Separate financial statements of the acquired real estate operation specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section need not be presented once the operating results of the acquired real estate operation have been reflected in the audited consolidated financial statements of the registrant for at least nine months.
(c)
Presentation of the financial statements.
(1) The financial statements prepared and audited in accordance with Regulation S-X may be only statements of revenues and expenses excluding expenses not comparable to the proposed future operations such as mortgage interest, leasehold rental, depreciation, amortization, corporate overhead and income taxes.
(2) The notes to the financial statements must include the following disclosures:
(i) The type of omitted expenses and the reason(s) why they are excluded from the financial statements;
(ii) A description of how the financial statements presented are not indicative of the results of operations of the acquired real estate operation going forward because of the omitted expenses; and
(iii) Information about the real estate operation's operating, investing and financing cash flows, to the extent available.
(d)
Financial statements of a foreign real estate operation.
Financial statements of an acquired or to be acquired foreign business (as defined in § 210.1-02(l)) that is a real estate operation, specified in paragraph (c) of this section and meeting the requirements of Item 17 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), will satisfy this section. Such financial statements may be reconciled to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS-IASB) if the registrant is a foreign private issuer that prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS-IASB. This reconciliation must generally follow the form and content requirements in Item 17(c) of Form 20-F; however, accommodations in Item 17(c)(2) of Form 20-F that would be inconsistent with IFRS-IASB may not be applied, and IFRS 1,
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards,
may be applied.
(e)
Financial statements of an acquired or to be acquired real estate operation that would be a foreign private issuer if it were a registrant.
Financial statements of an acquired or to be acquired real estate operation that is not a foreign business (as defined in § 210.1-02(l)), but would qualify as a foreign private issuer (as defined in §§ 230.405 and 240.3b-4 of this chapter) if it were a registrant, may be prepared in accordance with IFRS-IASB without reconciliation to U.S. GAAP or, if the registrant is a foreign private issuer that prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS-IASB, may be prepared according to a comprehensive basis of accounting principles other than U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB and must be reconciled to IFRS-IASB or to U.S. GAAP. This reconciliation must generally follow the form and content requirements in Item 17(c) of Form 20-F; however, accommodations in Item 17(c)(2) of Form 20-F that would be inconsistent with IFRS-IASB may not be applied, and IFRS 1,
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards,
may be applied.
(f)
Supplemental information.
For each real estate operation for which financial statements are required to be filed
by paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(B) and (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section, material factors considered by the registrant in assessing the real estate operation must be described with specificity in the filing, including sources of revenue (including, but not limited to, competition in the rental market, comparative rents, and occupancy rates) and expense (including, but not limited to, utility rates, property tax rates, maintenance expenses, and capital improvements anticipated). The disclosure must also indicate that the registrant is not aware of any other material factors relating to the specific real estate operation that would cause the reported financial statements not to be indicative of future operating results.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (f):
When the financial statements are presented in Form S-11 (§ 239.18 of this chapter), the discussion of material factors considered should supplement the disclosures required by Item 15 of Form S-11.
[85 FR 54062, Aug. 31, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 14314, Feb. 26, 2024]
§ 210.3-15
Special provisions as to real estate investment trusts.
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c) The tax status of distributions per unit shall be stated (e.g., ordinary income, capital gain, return of capital).
[45 FR 63687, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 49532, Dec. 3, 1985; 83 FR 50199, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.3-16
Financial statements of affiliates whose securities collateralize an issue registered or being registered.
The requirements of this section shall apply to each registered security issued and outstanding before January 4, 2021, unless the requirements of § 210.13-02 apply.
(a) For each of the registrant's affiliates whose securities constitute a substantial portion of the collateral for any class of securities registered or being registered, there shall be filed the financial statements that would be required if the affiliate were a registrant and required to file financial statements. However, financial statements need not be filed pursuant to this section for any person whose statements are otherwise separately included in the filing on an individual basis or on a basis consolidated with its subsidiaries.
(b) For the purposes of this section, securities of a person shall be deemed to constitute a substantial portion of collateral if the aggregate principal amount, par value, or book value of the securities as carried by the registrant, or the market value of such securities, whichever is the greatest, equals 20 percent or more of the principal amount of the secured class of securities.
[65 FR 51710, Aug. 24, 2000, as amended at 85 FR 22000, Apr. 20, 2020]
§ 210.3-17
Financial statements of natural persons.
(a) In lieu of the financial statements otherwise required, a natural person may file an unaudited balance sheet as of a date within 90 days of date of filing and unaudited statements of comprehensive income for each of the three most recent fiscal years.
(b) Financial statements conforming with the instructions as to financial statements of subsidiaries not consolidated and 50 percent or less owned persons under § 210.3-09(a) shall be separately presented for: (1) Each business owned as a sole proprietor, (2) each partnership, business trust, unincorporated association, or similar business organization of which the person holds a controlling interest and (3) each corporation of which the person, directly or indirectly, owns securities representing more than 50 percent of the voting power.
(c) Separate financial statements may be omitted, however, for each corporation, business trust, unincorporated association, or similar business organization if the person's total investment in such entity does not exceed 5 percent of his total assets
and
the person's total income from such entity does not exceed 5 percent of his gross income;
Provided,
that the person's aggregate investment in and income from all such omitted entities shall not exceed 15 percent of his total assets and gross income, respectively.
[46 FR 12491, Feb. 17, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 83 FR 50199, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.3-18
Special provisions as to registered management investment companies and companies required to be registered as management investment companies.
(a) For filings by registered management investment companies, the following financial statements shall be filed:
(1) An audited balance sheet or statement of assets and liabilities as of the end of the most recent fiscal year;
(2) An audited statement of operations for the most recent fiscal year conforming to the requirements of § 210.6-07.
(3) An audited statement of cash flows for the most recent fiscal year if necessary to comply with generally accepted accounting principles. (Further references in this rule to the requirement for such statement are likewise applicable only to the extent that they are consistent with the requirements of generally accepted accounting principles.)
(4) Audited statements of changes in net assets conforming to the requirements of § 210.6-09 for the two most recent fiscal years.
(b) If the filing is made within 60 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year and audited financial statements for the most recent fiscal year are not available, the balance sheet or statement of assets and liabilities may be as of the end of the preceding fiscal year and the filing shall include an additional balance sheet or statement of assets and liabilities as of an interim date within 245 days of the date of filing. In addition, the statements of operations and cash flows (if required by generally accepted accounting principles) shall be provided for the preceding fiscal year and the statement of changes in net assets shall be provided for the two preceding fiscal years and each of the statements shall be provided for the interim period between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the date of the most recent balance sheet or statement of assets and liabilities being filed. Financial statements for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year need not be provided.
(c) If the most current balance sheet or statement of assets and liabilities in a filing is as of a date 245 days or more prior to the date the filing is expected to become effective, the financial statements shall be updated with a balance sheet or statement of assets and liabilities as of an interim date within 245 days. In addition, the statements of operations, cash flows, and changes in net assets shall be provided for the interim period between the end of the most recent fiscal year for which a balance sheet or statement of assets and liabilities is presented and the date of the most recent interim balance sheet or statement of assets and liabilities filed.
(d) Interim financial statements provided in accordance with these requirements may be unaudited but shall be presented in the same detail as required by §§ 210.6-01 through 210.6-11. When unaudited financial statements are presented in a registration statement, they shall include the statement required by § 210.3-03(d).
[46 FR 36125, July 14, 1981; 46 FR 46795, Sept. 22, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 29837, July 9, 1982; 47 FR 56838, Dec. 21, 1982; 57 FR 45292, Oct. 1, 1992; 76 FR 71875, Nov. 21, 2011; 85 FR 54064, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.3-19
[Reserved]
§ 210.3-20
Currency for financial statements.
(a)(1) A foreign private issuer, as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter, shall state amounts in its primary financial statements in the currency which it deems appropriate.
(2) An issuer that is not a foreign private issuer shall present its financial statements in U.S. dollars.
(b)(1) The currency in which amounts in the financial statements are stated shall be disclosed prominently on the face of the financial statements. If dividends on publicly-held equity securities will be declared in a currency other than the reporting currency, a note to the financial statements shall identify that currency. If there are material exchange restrictions or controls relating to the issuer's reporting currency, the currency of the issuer's domicile, or the currency in which the issuer will pay dividends, prominent disclosure of this fact shall be made in
the financial statements. If the reporting currency is not the U.S. dollar, dollar-equivalent financial statements or convenience translations shall not be presented, except a translation may be presented of the most recent fiscal year and any subsequent interim period presented using the exchange rate as of the most recent balance sheet included in the filing, except that a rate as of the most recent practicable date shall be used if materially different.
(2) If there are material exchange restrictions or controls relating to the currency of a subsidiary's domicile, the currency held by a subsidiary, or the currency in which a subsidiary will pay dividends or transfer funds to the issuer or other subsidiaries, prominent disclosure of this fact shall be made in the financial statements.
(c) If the financial statements of a foreign private issuer are stated in a currency of a country that has experienced cumulative inflationary effects exceeding a total of 100 percent over the most recent three year period, and have not been recast or otherwise supplemented to include information on a historical cost/constant currency or current cost basis prescribed or permitted by appropriate authoritative standards, the issuer shall present supplementary information to quantify the effects of changing prices upon its financial position and results of operations.
(d) Notwithstanding the currency used for reporting purposes, the issuer shall measure separately its own transactions, and those of each of its material operations (e.g., branches, divisions, subsidiaries, joint ventures, and similar entities) that is included in the issuer's consolidated financial statements and not located in a hyperinflationary environment, using the particular currency of the primary economic environment in which the issuer or the operation conducts its business. Assets and liabilities so determined shall be translated into the reporting currency at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date; all revenues, expenses, gains, and losses shall be translated at the exchange rate existing at the time of the transaction or, if appropriate, a weighted average of the exchange rates during the period; and all translation effects of exchange rate changes shall be included as a separate component (“cumulative translation adjustment”) of shareholder's equity. For purposes of this paragraph, the currency of an operation's primary economic environment is normally the currency in which cash is primarily generated and expended; a hyperinflationary environment is one that has cumulative inflation of approximately 100% or more over the most recent three year period. Departures from the methodology presented in this paragraph shall be quantified pursuant to Item 17(c)(2) of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter).
(e) The issuer shall state its primary financial statements in the same currency for all periods for which financial information is presented. If the financial statements are stated in a currency that is different from that used in financial statements previously filed with the Commission, the issuer shall recast its financial statements as if the newly adopted currency had been used since at least the earliest period presented in the filing. The decision to change and the reason for the change in the reporting currency shall be disclosed in a note to the financial statements in the period in which the change occurs.
[59 FR 65631, Dec. 20, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 53908, Oct. 5, 1999; 83 FR 50199, Oct. 4, 2018]

# Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements
§ 210.3A-01
[Reserved]
§ 210.3A-02
Consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its subsidiaries.
In deciding upon consolidation policy, the registrant must consider what financial presentation is most meaningful in the circumstances and should follow in the consolidated financial statements principles of inclusion or exclusion which will clearly exhibit the financial position and results of operations of the registrant. There is a presumption that consolidated financial statements are more meaningful than separate financial statements and that they are usually necessary for a fair presentation when one entity directly
or indirectly has a controlling financial interest in another entity. Other particular facts and circumstances may require combined financial statements, an equity method of accounting, or valuation allowances in order to achieve a fair presentation.
(a)
Majority ownership:
Among the factors that the registrant should consider in determining the most meaningful presentation is majority ownership. Generally, registrants shall consolidate entities that are majority owned and shall not consolidate entities that are not majority owned. The determination of
majority ownership
requires a careful analysis of the facts and circumstances of a particular relationship among entities. In rare situations, consolidation of a majority owned subsidiary may not result in a fair presentation, because the registrant, in substance, does not have a controlling financial interest (for example, when the subsidiary is in legal reorganization or in bankruptcy). In other situations, consolidation of an entity, notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership, is necessary to present fairly the financial position and results of operations of the registrant, because of the existence of a parent-subsidiary relationship by means other than record ownership of voting stock.
(b) [Reserved].
[83 FR 50200, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.3A-03
Statement as to principles of consolidation or combination followed.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) As to each consolidated financial statement and as to each combined financial statement, if there has been a change in the persons included or excluded in the corresponding statement for the preceding fiscal period filed with the Commission that has a material effect on the financial statements, the persons included and the persons excluded shall be disclosed.
[37 FR 14597, July 21, 1972. Redesignated at 45 FR 63687, Sept. 25, 1980, and 46 FR 56179, Nov. 16, 1981; 83 FR 50200, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.3A-04
[Reserved]

# Rules of General Application

# Source:
Sections 210.4-01 through 210.4-10 appear at 45 FR 63669, Sept. 25, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 210.4-01
Form, order, and terminology.
(a) Financial statements should be filed in such form and order, and should use such generally accepted terminology, as will best indicate their significance and character in the light of the provisions applicable thereto. The information required with respect to any statement shall be furnished as a minimum requirement to which shall be added such further material information as is necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.
(1) Financial statements filed with the Commission which are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles will be presumed to be misleading or inaccurate, despite footnote or other disclosures, unless the Commission has otherwise provided. This article and other articles of Regulation S-X provide clarification of certain disclosures which must be included in any event, in financial statements filed with the Commission.
(2) In all filings of foreign private issuers (see § 230.405 of this chapter), except as stated otherwise in the applicable form, the financial statements may be prepared according to a comprehensive set of accounting principles, other than those generally accepted in the United States or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, if a reconciliation to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and the provisions of Regulation S-X of the type specified in Item 18 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter) is also filed as part of the financial statements. Alternatively, the financial statements may be prepared according to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
(b) All money amounts required to be shown in financial statements may be expressed in whole dollars or multiples thereof, as appropriate:
Provided,
That, when stated in other than whole dollars, an indication to that effect is inserted immediately beneath the caption of the statement or schedule, at the top of the money columns, or at an appropriate point in narrative material.
(c) Negative amounts (red figures) shall be shown in a manner which clearly distinguishes the negative attribute. When determining methods of display, consideration should be given to the limitations of reproduction and microfilming processes.
[45 FR 63669, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 54767, Dec. 6, 1982; 70 FR 20719, Apr. 21, 2005; 73 FR 953, Jan. 4, 2008; 73 FR 1009, Jan. 4, 2008; 76 FR 50119, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50200, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.4-02
Items not material.
If the amount which would otherwise be required to be shown with respect to any item is not material, it need not be separately set forth. The combination of insignificant amounts is permitted.
§ 210.4-03
Inapplicable captions and omission of unrequired or inapplicable financial statements.
(a) No caption should be shown in any financial statement as to which the items and conditions are not present.
(b) Financial statements not required or inapplicable because the required matter is not present need not be filed.
(c) The reasons for the omission of any required financial statements shall be indicated.
§ 210.4-04
Omission of substantially identical notes.
If a note covering substantially the same subject matter is required with respect to two or more financial statements relating to the same or affiliated persons, for which separate sets of notes are presented, the required information may be shown in a note to only one of such statements:
Provided,
That a clear and specific reference thereto is made in each of the other statements with respect to which the note is required.
§§ 210.4-05—210.4-06
[Reserved]
§ 210.4-07
Discount on shares.
Discount on shares, or any unamortized balance thereof, shall be shown separately as a deduction from the applicable account(s) as circumstances require.
§ 210.4-08
General notes to financial statements.
If applicable to the person for which the financial statements are filed, the following shall be set forth on the face of the appropriate statement or in appropriately captioned notes. The information shall be provided for each statement required to be filed, except that the information required by paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section shall be provided as of the most recent audited balance sheet being filed and for paragraph (j) of this section as specified therein. When specific statements are presented separately, the pertinent notes shall accompany such statements unless cross-referencing is appropriate.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Assets subject to lien.
Assets mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise subject to lien, and the approximate amounts thereof, shall be designated and the obligations collateralized briefly identified.
(c)
Defaults.
The facts and amounts concerning any default in principal, interest, sinking fund, or redemption provisions with respect to any issue of securities or credit agreements, or any breach of covenant of a related indenture or agreement, which default or breach existed at the date of the most recent balance sheet being filed and which has not been subsequently cured, shall be stated in the notes to the financial statements. If a default or breach exists but acceleration of the obligation has been waived for a stated period of time beyond the date of the most recent balance sheet being filed, state the amount of the obligation and the period of the waiver.
(d)
Preferred shares.
Aggregate preferences on involuntary liquidation, if other than par or stated value, shall be shown parenthetically in the equity section of the balance sheet.
(e)
Restrictions which limit the payment of dividends by the registrant.
(1) Describe the most significant restrictions on the payment of dividends by the registrant, indicating their sources, their pertinent provisions, and the amount of retained earnings or net income restricted or free of restrictions.
(2) Disclose the amount of consolidated retained earnings which represents undistributed earnings of 50 percent or less owned persons accounted for by the equity method.
(3) The disclosures in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section shall be provided when material.
(i) Describe the nature of any restrictions on the ability of consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated subsidiaries to transfer funds to the registrant in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances (
i.e.
, borrowing arrangements, regulatory restraints, foreign government, etc.).
(ii) Disclose separately the amounts of such restricted net assets for unconsolidated subsidiaries and consolidated subsidiaries as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year.
(f)
Significant changes in bonds, mortgages and similar debt.
Any significant changes in the authorized amounts of bonds, mortgages and similar debt since the date of the latest balance sheet being filed for a particular person or group shall be stated.
(g)
Summarized financial information of subsidiaries not consolidated and 50 percent or less owned persons.
(1) The summarized information as to assets, liabilities and results of operations as detailed in § 210.1-02(bb) shall be presented in notes to the financial statements on an individual or group basis for:
(i) Subsidiaries not consolidated; or
(ii) For 50 percent or less owned persons accounted for by the equity method by the registrant or by a subsidiary of the registrant, if the criteria in § 210.1-02(w) for a significant subsidiary are met:
(A) Individually by any subsidiary not consolidated or any 50% or less owned person; or
(B) On an aggregated basis by any combination of such subsidiaries and persons.
(2) Summarized financial information shall be presented insofar as is practicable as of the same dates and for the same periods as the audited consolidated financial statements provided and shall include the disclosures prescribed by § 210.1-02(bb). Summarized information of subsidiaries not consolidated shall not be combined for disclosure purposes with the summarized information of 50 percent or less owned persons.
(h)
Income tax expense.
(1) Disclosure shall be made in the statement of comprehensive income, or a note thereto, of the components of income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) as either domestic or foreign.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
h

# )(1):
Amounts applicable to United States Federal income taxes, to foreign income taxes and the other income taxes shall be stated separately for each major component. Amounts applicable to foreign income (loss) and amounts applicable to foreign or other income taxes which are less than five percent of the total of income before taxes or the component of tax expense, respectively, need not be separately disclosed. For purposes of this note, foreign income (loss) is defined as income (loss) generated from a registrant's foreign operations,
i.e.,
operations that are located outside of the registrant's home country.
(2) In the reconciliation between the amount of reported total income tax expense (benefit) and the amount computed by multiplying the income (loss) before tax by the applicable statutory Federal income tax rate, if no individual reconciling item amounts to more than five percent of the amount computed by multiplying the income before tax by the applicable statutory Federal income tax rate, and the total difference to be reconciled is less than five percent of such computed amount, no reconciliation need be provided unless it would be significant in appraising the trend of earnings. Reconciling items that are individually less than five percent of the computed amount may be aggregated in the reconciliation. Where the reporting person is a foreign entity, the income tax rate in that person's country of domicile should normally be used in making the above computation, but different rates should not be used for subsidiaries or other segments of a reporting entity. When the rate used by a reporting person is other than the United States
Federal corporate income tax rate, the rate used and the basis for using such rate shall be disclosed.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Price at which warrant or right is exercisable.
(i)-(j) [Reserved]
(k)
Related party transactions that affect the financial statements.
(1) Amounts of related party transactions should be stated on the face of the balance sheet, statement of comprehensive income, or statement of cash flows.
(2) In cases where separate financial statements are presented for the registrant, certain investees, or subsidiaries, any intercompany profits or losses resulting from transactions with related parties and the effects thereof shall be disclosed.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements
—(1)
Repurchase agreements (assets sold under agreements to repurchase).
(i) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the carrying amount (or market value, if higher than the carrying amount or if there is no carrying amount) of the securities or other assets sold under agreements to repurchase (
repurchase agreements
) exceeds 10% of total assets, disclose separately in the balance sheet the aggregate amount of liabilities incurred pursuant to repurchase agreements including accrued interest payable thereon.
(ii)(A) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the carrying amount (or market value, if higher than the carrying amount) of securities or other assets sold under repurchase agreements, other than securities or assets specified in paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, exceeds 10% of total assets, disclose in an appropriately captioned footnote containing a tabular presentation, segregated as to type of such securities or assets sold under agreements to repurchase (e.g., U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. Government agency obligations and loans), the following information as of the balance sheet date for each such agreement or group of agreements (other than agreements involving securities or assets specified in paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(B) of this section) maturing (
1
) overnight; (
2
) term up to 30 days; (
3
) term of 30 to 90 days; (
4
) term over 90 days and (
5
) demand:
(
i
) The carrying amount and market value of the assets sold under agreement to repurchase, including accrued interest plus any cash or other assets on deposit under the repurchase agreements; and
(
ii
) The repurchase liability associated with such transaction or group of transactions and the interest rate(s) thereon.
(B) For purposes of paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(A) of this section only, do not include securities or other assets for which unrealized changes in market value are reported in current income or which have been obtained under reverse repurchase agreements.
(iii) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the amount at risk under repurchase agreements with any individual counterparty or group of related counterparties exceeds 10% of stockholders' equity (or in the case of investment companies, net asset value), disclose the name of each such counterparty or group of related counterparties, the amount at risk with each, and the weighted average maturity of the repurchase agreements with each. The amount at risk under repurchase agreements is defined as the excess of carrying amount (or market value, if higher than the carrying amount or if there is no carrying amount) of the securities or other assets sold under agreement to repurchase, including accrued interest plus any cash or other assets on deposit to secure the repurchase obligation, over the amount of the repurchase liability (adjusted for accrued interest). (Cash deposits in connection with repurchase agreements shall not be reported as unrestricted cash pursuant to rule 5-02.1.)
(2)
Reverse repurchase agreements (assets purchased under agreements to resell).
(i) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the aggregate carrying amount of “reverse repurchase agreements” (securities or other assets purchased under agreements to resell) exceeds 10% of total assets:
(A) Disclose separately such amount in the balance sheet; and
(B) Disclose in an appropriately captioned footnote:
(
1
) The registrant's policy with regard to taking possession of securities or other assets purchased under agreements to resell; and
(
2
) Whether or not there are any provisions to ensure that the market value of the underlying assets remains sufficient to protect the registrant in the event of default by the counterparty and if so, the nature of those provisions.
(ii) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the amount at risk under reverse repurchase agreements with any individual counterparty or group of related counterparties exceeds 10% of stockholders' equity (or in the case of investment companies, net asset value), disclose the name of each such counterparty or group of related counterparties, the amount at risk with each, and the weighted average maturity of the reverse repurchase agreements with each. The amount at risk under reverse repurchase agreements is defined as the excess of the carrying amount of the reverse repurchase agreements over the market value of assets delivered pursuant to the agreements by the counterparty to the registrant (or to a third party agent that has affirmatively agreed to act on behalf of the registrant) and not returned to the counterparty, except in exchange for their approximate market value in a separate transaction.
(n)
Accounting policies for certain derivative instruments.
Disclosures regarding accounting policies shall include, to the extent material, where in the statement of cash flows derivative financial instruments, and their related gains and losses, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, are reported.
[45 FR 63669, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 56179, Nov. 16, 1981; 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 50 FR 49532, Dec. 3, 1985; 51 FR 3770, Jan. 30, 1986; 57 FR 45293, Oct. 1, 1992; 59 FR 65636, Dec. 20, 1994; 62 FR 6063, Feb. 10, 1997; 74 FR 18615, Apr. 23, 2009; 76 FR 50119, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50200, Oct. 4, 2018; 90 FR 9687, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 210.4-9
[Reserved]
§ 210.4-10
Financial accounting and reporting for oil and gas producing activities pursuant to the Federal securities laws and the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975.
This section prescribes financial accounting and reporting standards for registrants with the Commission engaged in oil and gas producing activities in filings under the Federal securities laws and for the preparation of accounts by persons engaged, in whole or in part, in the production of crude oil or natural gas in the United States, pursuant to section 503 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6383) (
EPCA
) and section 11(c) of the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 796) (
ESECA
), as amended by section 505 of EPCA. The application of this section to those oil and gas producing operations of companies regulated for ratemaking purposes on an individual-company-cost-of-service basis may, however, give appropriate recognition to differences arising because of the effect of the ratemaking process.
Exemption.
Any person exempted by the Department of Energy from any record-keeping or reporting requirements pursuant to section 11(c) of ESECA, as amended, is similarly exempted from the related provisions of this section in the preparation of accounts pursuant to EPCA. This exemption does not affect the applicability of this section to filings pursuant to the Federal securities laws.

# Definitions
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to the terms listed below as they are used in this section:
(1)
Acquisition of properties.
Costs incurred to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire a property, including costs of lease bonuses and options to purchase or lease properties, the portion of costs applicable to minerals when land including mineral rights is purchased in fee, brokers' fees, recording fees, legal costs, and other costs incurred in acquiring properties.
(2)
Analogous reservoir.
Analogous reservoirs, as used in resources assessments, have similar rock and fluid
properties, reservoir conditions (depth, temperature, and pressure) and drive mechanisms, but are typically at a more advanced stage of development than the reservoir of interest and thus may provide concepts to assist in the interpretation of more limited data and estimation of recovery. When used to support proved reserves, an “analogous reservoir” refers to a reservoir that shares the following characteristics with the reservoir of interest:
(i) Same geological formation (but not necessarily in pressure communication with the reservoir of interest);
(ii) Same environment of deposition;
(iii) Similar geological structure; and
(iv) Same drive mechanism.
Instruction to paragraph (a)(2):
Reservoir properties must, in the aggregate, be no more favorable in the analog than in the reservoir of interest.
(3)
Bitumen.
Bitumen, sometimes referred to as natural bitumen, is petroleum in a solid or semi-solid state in natural deposits with a viscosity greater than 10,000 centipoise measured at original temperature in the deposit and atmospheric pressure, on a gas free basis. In its natural state it usually contains sulfur, metals, and other non-hydrocarbons.
(4)
Condensate.
Condensate is a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in the gaseous phase at original reservoir temperature and pressure, but that, when produced, is in the liquid phase at surface pressure and temperature.
(5)
Deterministic estimate.
The method of estimating reserves or resources is called deterministic when a single value for each parameter (from the geoscience, engineering, or economic data) in the reserves calculation is used in the reserves estimation procedure.
(6)
Developed oil and gas reserves.
Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered:
(i) Through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and
(ii) Through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
(7)
Development costs.
Costs incurred to obtain access to proved reserves and to provide facilities for extracting, treating, gathering and storing the oil and gas. More specifically, development costs, including depreciation and applicable operating costs of support equipment and facilities and other costs of development activities, are costs incurred to:
(i) Gain access to and prepare well locations for drilling, including surveying well locations for the purpose of determining specific development drilling sites, clearing ground, draining, road building, and relocating public roads, gas lines, and power lines, to the extent necessary in developing the proved reserves.
(ii) Drill and equip development wells, development-type stratigraphic test wells, and service wells, including the costs of platforms and of well equipment such as casing, tubing, pumping equipment, and the wellhead assembly.
(iii) Acquire, construct, and install production facilities such as lease flow lines, separators, treaters, heaters, manifolds, measuring devices, and production storage tanks, natural gas cycling and processing plants, and central utility and waste disposal systems.
(iv) Provide improved recovery systems.
(8)
Development project.
A development project is the means by which petroleum resources are brought to the status of economically producible. As examples, the development of a single reservoir or field, an incremental development in a producing field, or the integrated development of a group of several fields and associated facilities with a common ownership may constitute a development project.
(9)
Development well.
A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
(10)
Economically producible.
The term economically producible, as it relates to a resource, means a resource which generates revenue that exceeds, or is reasonably expected to exceed, the costs of the operation. The value of the
products that generate revenue shall be determined at the terminal point of oil and gas producing activities as defined in paragraph (a)(16) of this section.
(11)
Estimated ultimate recovery (EUR).
Estimated ultimate recovery is the sum of reserves remaining as of a given date and cumulative production as of that date.
(12)
Exploration costs.
Costs incurred in identifying areas that may warrant examination and in examining specific areas that are considered to have prospects of containing oil and gas reserves, including costs of drilling exploratory wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells. Exploration costs may be incurred both before acquiring the related property (sometimes referred to in part as prospecting costs) and after acquiring the property. Principal types of exploration costs, which include depreciation and applicable operating costs of support equipment and facilities and other costs of exploration activities, are:
(i) Costs of topographical, geographical and geophysical studies, rights of access to properties to conduct those studies, and salaries and other expenses of geologists, geophysical crews, and others conducting those studies. Collectively, these are sometimes referred to as geological and geophysical or
G
G
costs.
(ii) Costs of carrying and retaining undeveloped properties, such as delay rentals, ad valorem taxes on properties, legal costs for title defense, and the maintenance of land and lease records.
(iii) Dry hole contributions and bottom hole contributions.
(iv) Costs of drilling and equipping exploratory wells.
(v) Costs of drilling exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells.
(13)
Exploratory well.
An exploratory well is a well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir. Generally, an exploratory well is any well that is not a development well, an extension well, a service well, or a stratigraphic test well as those items are defined in this section.
(14)
Extension well.
An extension well is a well drilled to extend the limits of a known reservoir.
(15)
Field.
An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic condition. There may be two or more reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically by intervening impervious, strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both. Reservoirs that are associated by being in overlapping or adjacent fields may be treated as a single or common operational field. The geological terms
structural feature
and
stratigraphic condition
are intended to identify localized geological features as opposed to the broader terms of basins, trends, provinces, plays, areas-of-interest, etc.
(16)
Oil and gas producing activities.
(i) Oil and gas producing activities include:
(A) The search for crude oil, including condensate and natural gas liquids, or natural gas (“oil and gas”) in their natural states and original locations;
(B) The acquisition of property rights or properties for the purpose of further exploration or for the purpose of removing the oil or gas from such properties;
(C) The construction, drilling, and production activities necessary to retrieve oil and gas from their natural reservoirs, including the acquisition, construction, installation, and maintenance of field gathering and storage systems, such as:
(
1
) Lifting the oil and gas to the surface; and
(
2
) Gathering, treating, and field processing (as in the case of processing gas to extract liquid hydrocarbons); and
(D) Extraction of saleable hydrocarbons, in the solid, liquid, or gaseous state, from oil sands, shale, coalbeds, or other nonrenewable natural resources which are intended to be upgraded into synthetic oil or gas, and activities undertaken with a view to such extraction.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(16)(i):
The oil and gas production function shall be regarded as ending at a “terminal point”, which is the outlet valve on the lease or field
storage tank. If unusual physical or operational circumstances exist, it may be appropriate to regard the terminal point for the production function as:
a. The first point at which oil, gas, or gas liquids, natural or synthetic, are delivered to a main pipeline, a common carrier, a refinery, or a marine terminal; and
b. In the case of natural resources that are intended to be upgraded into synthetic oil or gas, if those natural resources are delivered to a purchaser prior to upgrading, the first point at which the natural resources are delivered to a main pipeline, a common carrier, a refinery, a marine terminal, or a facility which upgrades such natural resources into synthetic oil or gas.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a)(16)(i):
For purposes of this paragraph (a)(16), the term
saleable hydrocarbons
means hydrocarbons that are saleable in the state in which the hydrocarbons are delivered.
(ii) Oil and gas producing activities do not include:
(A) Transporting, refining, or marketing oil and gas;
(B) Processing of produced oil, gas or natural resources that can be upgraded into synthetic oil or gas by a registrant that does not have the legal right to produce or a revenue interest in such production;
(C) Activities relating to the production of natural resources other than oil, gas, or natural resources from which synthetic oil and gas can be extracted; or
(D) Production of geothermal steam.
(17)
Possible reserves.
Possible reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than probable reserves.
(i) When deterministic methods are used, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 10% probability that the total quantities ultimately recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable plus possible reserves estimates.
(ii) Possible reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to probable reserves where data control and interpretations of available data are progressively less certain. Frequently, this will be in areas where geoscience and engineering data are unable to define clearly the area and vertical limits of commercial production from the reservoir by a defined project.
(iii) Possible reserves also include incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than the recovery quantities assumed for probable reserves.
(iv) The proved plus probable and proved plus probable plus possible reserves estimates must be based on reasonable alternative technical and commercial interpretations within the reservoir or subject project that are clearly documented, including comparisons to results in successful similar projects.
(v) Possible reserves may be assigned where geoscience and engineering data identify directly adjacent portions of a reservoir within the same accumulation that may be separated from proved areas by faults with displacement less than formation thickness or other geological discontinuities and that have not been penetrated by a wellbore, and the registrant believes that such adjacent portions are in communication with the known (proved) reservoir. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher or lower than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
(vi) Pursuant to paragraph (a)(22)(iii) of this section, where direct observation has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves should be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir above the HKO only if the higher contact can be established with reasonable certainty through reliable technology. Portions of the reservoir that do not meet this reasonable certainty criterion may be assigned as probable and possible oil or gas based on reservoir fluid properties and pressure gradient interpretations.
(18)
Probable reserves.
Probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered.
(i) When deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual
remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable reserves estimates.
(ii) Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
(iii) Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
(iv) See also guidelines in paragraphs (a)(17)(iv) and (a)(17)(vi) of this section.
(19)
Probabilistic estimate.
The method of estimation of reserves or resources is called probabilistic when the full range of values that could reasonably occur for each unknown parameter (from the geoscience and engineering data) is used to generate a full range of possible outcomes and their associated probabilities of occurrence.
(20)
Production costs.
(i) Costs incurred to operate and maintain wells and related equipment and facilities, including depreciation and applicable operating costs of support equipment and facilities and other costs of operating and maintaining those wells and related equipment and facilities. They become part of the cost of oil and gas produced. Examples of production costs (sometimes called lifting costs) are:
(A) Costs of labor to operate the wells and related equipment and facilities.
(B) Repairs and maintenance.
(C) Materials, supplies, and fuel consumed and supplies utilized in operating the wells and related equipment and facilities.
(D) Property taxes and insurance applicable to proved properties and wells and related equipment and facilities.
(E) Severance taxes.
(ii) Some support equipment or facilities may serve two or more oil and gas producing activities and may also serve transportation, refining, and marketing activities. To the extent that the support equipment and facilities are used in oil and gas producing activities, their depreciation and applicable operating costs become exploration, development or production costs, as appropriate. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization of capitalized acquisition, exploration, and development costs are not production costs but also become part of the cost of oil and gas produced along with production (lifting) costs identified above.
(21)
Proved area.
The part of a property to which proved reserves have been specifically attributed.
(22)
Proved oil and gas reserves.
Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible—from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations—prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.
(i) The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes:
(A) The area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and
(B) Adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data.
(ii) In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons (LKH) as seen in a well
penetration unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty.
(iii) Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty.
(iv) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when:
(A) Successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and
(B) The project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities.
(v) Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
(23)
Proved properties.
Properties with proved reserves.
(24)
Reasonable certainty.
If deterministic methods are used, reasonable certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. If probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease.
(25)
Reliable technology.
Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation.
(26)
Reserves.
Reserves are estimated remaining quantities of oil and gas and related substances anticipated to be economically producible, as of a given date, by application of development projects to known accumulations. In addition, there must exist, or there must be a reasonable expectation that there will exist, the legal right to produce or a revenue interest in the production, installed means of delivering oil and gas or related substances to market, and all permits and financing required to implement the project.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(26):
Reserves should not be assigned to adjacent reservoirs isolated by major, potentially sealing, faults until those reservoirs are penetrated and evaluated as economically producible. Reserves should not be assigned to areas that are clearly separated from a known accumulation by a non-productive reservoir (
i.e.
, absence of reservoir, structurally low reservoir, or negative test results). Such areas may contain prospective resources (
i.e.
, potentially recoverable resources from undiscovered accumulations).
(27)
Reservoir.
A porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reservoirs.
(28)
Resources.
Resources are quantities of oil and gas estimated to exist in naturally occurring accumulations. A portion of the resources may be estimated to be recoverable, and another
portion may be considered to be unrecoverable. Resources include both discovered and undiscovered accumulations.
(29)
Service well.
A well drilled or completed for the purpose of supporting production in an existing field. Specific purposes of service wells include gas injection, water injection, steam injection, air injection, salt-water disposal, water supply for injection, observation, or injection for in-situ combustion.
(30)
Stratigraphic test well.
A stratigraphic test well is a drilling effort, geologically directed, to obtain information pertaining to a specific geologic condition. Such wells customarily are drilled without the intent of being completed for hydrocarbon production. The classification also includes tests identified as core tests and all types of expendable holes related to hydrocarbon exploration. Stratigraphic tests are classified as “exploratory type” if not drilled in a known area or “development type” if drilled in a known area.
(31)
Undeveloped oil and gas reserves.
Undeveloped oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
(i) Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances.
(ii) Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances, justify a longer time.
(iii) Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty.
(32)
Unproved properties.
Properties with no proved reserves.

# Successful Efforts Method
(b) A reporting entity that follows the successful efforts method shall comply with the accounting and financial reporting disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 932,
Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas.

# Full Cost Method
(c)
Application of the full cost method of accounting.
A reporting entity that follows the full cost method shall apply that method to all of its operations and to the operations of its subsidiaries, as follows:
(1)
Determination of cost centers.
Cost centers shall be established on a country-by-country basis.
(2)
Costs to be capitalized.
All costs associated with property acquisition, exploration, and development activities (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) shall be capitalized within the appropriate cost center. Any internal costs that are capitalized shall be limited to those costs that can be directly identified with acquisition, exploration, and development activities undertaken by the reporting entity for its own account, and shall not include any costs related to production, general corporate overhead, or similar activities.
(3)
Amortization of capitalized costs.
Capitalized costs within a cost center shall be amortized on the unit-of-production basis using proved oil and gas reserves, as follows:
(i) Costs to be amortized shall include (A) all capitalized costs, less accumulated amortization, other than the cost of properties described in paragraph (ii) below; (B) the estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing proved reserves; and (C) estimated dismantlement and abandonment costs, net of estimated salvage values.
(ii) The cost of investments in unproved properties and major development projects may be excluded from capitalized costs to be amortized, subject to the following:
(A) All costs directly associated with the acquisition and evaluation of unproved properties may be excluded from the amortization computation until it is determined whether or not proved reserves can be assigned to the properties, subject to the following conditions:
(
1
) Until such a determination is made, the properties shall be assessed at least annually to ascertain whether impairment has occurred. Unevaluated properties whose costs are individually significant shall be assessed individually. Where it is not practicable to individually assess the amount of impairment of properties for which costs are not individually significant, such properties may be grouped for purposes of assessing impairment. Impairment may be estimated by applying factors based on historical experience and other data such as primary lease terms of the properties, average holding periods of unproved properties, and geographic and geologic data to groupings of individually insignificant properties and projects. The amount of impairment assessed under either of these methods shall be added to the costs to be amortized.
(
2
) The costs of drilling exploratory dry holes shall be included in the amortization base immediately upon determination that the well is dry.
(
3
) If geological and geophysical costs cannot be directly associated with specific unevaluated properties, they shall be included in the amortization base as incurred. Upon complete evaluation of a property, the total remaining excluded cost (net of any impairment) shall be included in the full cost amortization base.
(B) Certain costs may be excluded from amortization when incurred in connection with major development projects expected to entail significant costs to ascertain the quantities of proved reserves attributable to the properties under development (e.g., the installation of an offshore drilling platform from which development wells are to be drilled, the installation of improved recovery programs, and similar major projects undertaken in the expectation of significant additions to proved reserves). The amounts which may be excluded are applicable portions of (
1
) the costs that relate to the major development project and have not previously been included in the amortization base, and (
2
) the estimated future expenditures associated with the development project. The excluded portion of any common costs associated with the development project should be based, as is most appropriate in the circumstances, on a comparison of either (
i
) existing proved reserves to total proved reserves expected to be established upon completion of the project, or (
ii
) the number of wells to which proved reserves have been assigned and total number of wells expected to be drilled. Such costs may be excluded from costs to be amortized until the earlier determination of whether additional reserves are proved or impairment occurs.
(C) Excluded costs and the proved reserves related to such costs shall be transferred into the amortization base on an ongoing (well-by-well or property-by-property) basis as the project is evaluated and proved reserves established or impairment determined. Once proved reserves are established, there is no further justification for continued exclusion from the full cost amortization base even if other factors prevent immediate production or marketing.
(iii) Amortization shall be computed on the basis of physical units, with oil and gas converted to a common unit of measure on the basis of their approximate relative energy content, unless economic circumstances (related to the effects of regulated prices) indicate that use of units of revenue is a more appropriate basis of computing amortization. In the latter case, amortization shall be computed on the basis of current gross revenues (excluding royalty payments and net profits disbursements) from production in relation to future gross revenues, based on current prices (including consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements), from estimated production of proved oil and gas reserves. The effect of a significant price increase during the year on estimated future gross revenues shall be reflected in the amortization provision only for the period after the price increase occurs.
(iv) In some cases it may be more appropriate to depreciate natural gas cycling and processing plants by a method other than the unit-of-production method.
(v) Amortization computations shall be made on a consolidated basis, including investees accounted for on a proportionate consolidation basis. Investees accounted for on the equity method shall be treated separately.
(4)
Limitation on capitalized costs.
(i) For each cost center, capitalized costs, less accumulated amortization and related deferred income taxes, shall not exceed an amount (the cost center ceiling) equal to the sum of:
(A) The present value of estimated future net revenues computed by applying current prices of oil and gas reserves (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves computed using a discount factor of ten percent and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions; plus
(B) the cost of properties not being amortized pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section; plus
(C) the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproven properties included in the costs being amortized; less
(D) income tax effects related to differences between the book and tax basis of the properties referred to in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) (B) and (C) of this section.
(ii) If unamortized costs capitalized within a cost center, less related deferred income taxes, exceed the cost center ceiling, the excess shall be charged to expense and separately disclosed during the period in which the excess occurs. Amounts thus required to be written off shall not be reinstated for any subsequent increase in the cost center ceiling.
(5)
Production costs.
All costs relating to production activities, including workover costs incurred solely to maintain or increase levels of production from an existing completion interval, shall be charged to expense as incurred.
(6)
Other transactions.
The provisions of paragraph (h) of this section, “Mineral property conveyances and related transactions if the successful efforts method of accounting is followed,” shall apply also to those reporting entities following the full cost method except as follows:
(i)
Sales and abandonments of oil and gas properties.
Sales of oil and gas properties, whether or not being amortized currently, shall be accounted for as adjustments of capitalized costs, with no gain or loss recognized, unless such adjustments would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves of oil and gas attributable to a cost center. For instance, a significant alteration would not ordinarily be expected to occur for sales involving less than 25 percent of the reserve quantities of a given cost center. If gain or loss is recognized on such a sale, total capitalization costs within the cost center shall be allocated between the reserves sold and reserves retained on the same basis used to compute amortization, unless there are substantial economic differences between the properties sold and those retained, in which case capitalized costs shall be allocated on the basis of the relative fair values of the properties. Abandonments of oil and gas properties shall be accounted for as adjustments of capitalized costs; that is, the cost of abandoned properties shall be charged to the full cost center and amortized (subject to the limitation on capitalized costs in paragraph (b) of this section).
(ii)
Purchases of reserves.
Purchases of oil and gas reserves in place ordinarily shall be accounted for as additional capitalized costs within the applicable cost center; however, significant purchases of production payments or properties with lives substantially shorter than the composite productive life of the cost center shall be accounted for separately.
(iii)
Partnerships, joint ventures and drilling arrangements.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, all consideration received from
sales or transfers of properties in connection with partnerships, joint venture operations, or various other forms of drilling arrangements involving oil and gas exploration and development activities (e.g., carried interest, turnkey wells, management fees, etc.) shall be credited to the full cost account, except to the extent of amounts that represent reimbursement of organization, offering, general and administrative expenses, etc., that are identifiable with the transaction, if such amounts are currently incurred and charged to expense.
(B) Where a registrant organizes and manages a limited partnership involved only in the purchase of proved developed properties and subsequent distribution of income from such properties, management fee income may be recognized provided the properties involved do not require aggregate development expenditures in connection with production of existing proved reserves in excess of 10% of the partnership's recorded cost of such properties. Any income not recognized as a result of this limitation would be credited to the full cost account and recognized through a lower amortization provision as reserves are produced.
(iv)
Other services.
No income shall be recognized in connection with contractual services performed (e.g. drilling, well service, or equipment supply services, etc.) in connection with properties in which the registrant or an affiliate (as defined in § 210.1-02(b)) holds an ownership or other economic interest, except as follows:
(A) Where the registrant acquires an interest in the properties in connection with the service contract, income may be recognized to the extent the cash consideration received exceeds the related contract costs plus the registrant's share of costs incurred and estimated to be incurred in connection with the properties. Ownership interests acquired within one year of the date of such a contract are considered to be acquired in connection with the service for purposes of applying this rule. The amount of any guarantees or similar arrangements undertaken as part of this contract should be considered as part of the costs related to the properties for purposes of applying this rule.
(B) Where the registrant acquired an interest in the properties at least one year before the date of the service contract through transactions unrelated to the service contract, and that interest is unaffected by the service contract, income from such contract may be recognized subject to the general provisions for elimination of inter-company profit under generally accepted accounting principles.
(C) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (c)(6)(iv) (A) and (B) of this section, no income may be recognized for contractual services performed on behalf of investors in oil and gas producing activities managed by the registrant or an affiliate. Furthermore, no income may be recognized for contractual services to the extent that the consideration received for such services represents an interest in the underlying property.
(D) Any income not recognized as a result of these rules would be credited to the full cost account and recognized through a lower amortization provision as reserves are produced.
(7)
Disclosures.
Reporting entities that follow the full cost method of accounting shall disclose all of the information required by paragraph (k) of this section, with each cost center considered as a separate geographic area, except that reasonable groupings may be made of cost centers that are not significant in the aggregate. In addition:
(i) For each cost center for each year that a statement of comprehensive income is required, disclose the total amount of amortization expense (per equivalent physical unit of production if amortization is computed on the basis of physical units or per dollar of gross revenue from production if amortization is computed on the basis of gross revenue).
(ii) State separately on the face of the balance sheet the aggregate of the capitalized costs of unproved properties and major development projects that are excluded, in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section, from the capitalized costs being amortized. Provide a description in the notes to the
financial statements of the current status of the significant properties or projects involved, including the anticipated timing of the inclusion of the costs in the amortization computation. Present a table that shows, by category of cost, (A) the total costs excluded as of the most recent fiscal year; and (B) the amounts of such excluded costs, incurred (
1
) in each of the three most recent fiscal years and (
2
) in the aggregate for any earlier fiscal years in which the costs were incurred. Categories of cost to be disclosed include acquisition costs, exploration costs, development costs in the case of significant development projects and capitalized interest.
(8) For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term “current price” shall mean the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.

# Income Taxes
(d)
Income taxes.
Comprehensive interperiod income tax allocation by a method which complies with generally accepted accounting principles shall be followed for intangible drilling and development costs and other costs incurred that enter into the determination of taxable income and pretax accounting income in different periods.
[43 FR 60405, Dec. 27, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 60417, Dec. 27, 1978; 44 FR 57036, 57038, Oct. 9, 1979; 45 FR 27749, Apr. 24, 1980. Redesignated and amended at 45 FR 63669, Sept. 25, 1980; 47 FR 57913, Dec. 29, 1982; 48 FR 44200, Sept. 28, 1983; 49 FR 18473, May 1, 1984; 57 FR 45293, Oct. 1, 1992; 61 FR 30401, June 14, 1996; 74 FR 2190, Jan. 14, 2009; 76 FR 50119, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50201, Oct. 4, 2018]; 90 FR 9687, Feb. 18, 2025

# Commercial and Industrial Companies
§ 210.5-01
Application of §§ 210.5-01 to 210.5-04.
Sections 210.5-01 to 210.5-04 shall be applicable to financial statements filed for all persons except—
(a) Registered investment companies (see§§ 210.6-01 through 210.6-11).
(b) Employee stock purchase, savings and similar plans (see §§ 210.6A-01 to 210.6A-05).
(c) Insurance companies (see §§ 210.7-01 to 210.7-05).
(d) Bank holding companies and banks (see §§ 210.9-01 to 210.9-07).
(e) Brokers and dealers when filing Form X-17A-5 [249.617] (see §§ 240.17a-5 and 240.17a-10 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
[50 FR 49533, Dec. 3, 1985, as amended at 85 FR 54064, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.5-02
Balance sheets.
The purpose of this rule is to indicate the various line items and certain additional disclosures which, if applicable, and except as otherwise permitted by the Commission, should appear on the face of the balance sheets or related notes filed for the persons to whom this article pertains (see § 210.4-01(a)).

# Assets and Other Debits

# Current Assets, when appropriate
1.
Cash and cash items.
Separate disclosure shall be made of the cash and cash items which are restricted as to withdrawal or usage. The provisions of any restrictions shall be described in a note to the financial statements. Restrictions may include legally restricted deposits held as compensating balances against short-term borrowing arrangements, contracts entered into with others, or company statements of intention with regard to particular deposits; however, time deposits and short-term certificates of deposit are not generally included in legally restricted deposits. In cases where compensating balance arrangements exist but are not agreements which legally restrict the use of cash amounts shown on the balance sheet, describe in the notes to the financial statements these arrangements and the amount involved, if determinable, for the most recent audited balance sheet required and for any subsequent unaudited balance sheet required in the notes to the financial statements. Compensating balances that are maintained under an agreement to assure future credit availability shall be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements along with the amount and terms of such agreement.
2.
Marketable securities.
The accounting and disclosure requirements for current marketable equity securities are specified by generally accepted accounting principles. With
respect to all other current marketable securities, state, parenthetically or otherwise, the basis of determining the aggregate amount shown in the balance sheet, along with the alternatives of the aggregate cost or the aggregate market value at the balance sheet date.
3.
Accounts and notes receivable.
(a) State separately amounts receivable from (1) customers (trade); (2) related parties (see § 210.4-08(k)); (3) underwriters, promoters, and employees (other than related parties) which arose in other than the ordinary course of business; and (4) others.
(b) If the aggregate amount of notes receivable exceeds 10 percent of the aggregate amount of receivables, the above information shall be set forth separately, in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, for accounts receivable and notes receivable.
(c) If receivables include amounts due under long-term contracts (see § 210.5-02.6(d)), state separately in the balance sheet or in a note to the financial statements the following amounts:
(1) Balances billed but not paid by customers under retainage provisions in contracts.
(2) Amounts representing the recognized sales value of performance and such amounts that had not been billed and were not billable to customers at the date of the balance sheet. Include a general description of the prerequisites for billing.
(3) Billed or unbilled amounts representing claims or other similar items subject to uncertainty concerning their determination or ultimate realization. Include a description of the nature and status of the principal items comprising such amount.
(4) With respect to (1) through (3) above, also state the amounts included in each item which are expected to be collected after one year. Also state, by year, if practicable, when the amounts of retainage (see (1) above) are expected to be collected.
4.
Allowances for doubtful accounts and notes receivable.
The amount is to be set forth separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto.
5.
Unearned income.
6.
Inventories.
(a) State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, if practicable, the amounts of major classes of inventory such as: (1) Finished goods; (2) inventoried costs relating to long-term contracts or programs (see paragraph (d) of this section); (3) work in process;
(4) raw materials; and (5) supplies. If the method of calculating a LIFO inventory does not allow for the practical determination of amounts assigned to major classes of inventory, the amounts of those classes may be stated under cost flow assumptions other that LIFO with the excess of such total amount over the aggregate LIFO amount shown as a deduction to arrive at the amount of the LIFO inventory.
(b) The basis of determining the amounts shall be stated.
If
cost
is used to determine any portion of the inventory amounts, the description of this method shall include the nature of the cost elements included in inventory. Elements of
cost
include, among other items, retained costs representing the excess of manufacturing or production costs over the amounts charged to cost of sales or delivered or in-process units, initial tooling or other deferred startup costs, or general and administrative costs.
The method by which amounts are removed from inventory (e.g.,
average cost, first-in, first-out, last-in, first-out, estimated average cost per unit
) shall be described. If the estimated average cost per unit is used as a basis to determine amounts removed from inventory under a total program or similar basis of accounting, the principal assumptions (including, where meaningful, the aggregate number of units expected to be delivered under the program, the number of units delivered to date and the number of units on order) shall be disclosed.
If any general and administrative costs are charged to inventory, state in a note to the financial statements the aggregate amount of the general and administrative costs incurred in each period and the actual or estimated amount remaining in inventory at the date of each balance sheet.
(c) If the LIFO inventory method is used, the excess of replacement or current cost over stated LIFO value shall, if material, be stated parenthetically or in a note to the financial statements.
(d) For purposes of §§ 210.5-02.3 and 210.5-02.6, long-term contracts or programs include (1) all contracts or programs for which gross profits are recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting or any variant thereof (e.g., delivered unit, cost to cost, physical completion), and (2) any contracts or programs accounted for on a completed contract basis of accounting where, in either case, the contracts or programs have associated with them material amounts of inventories or unbilled receivables and where such contracts or programs have been or are expected to be performed over a period of more than twelve months. Contracts or programs of shorter duration may also be included, if deemed appropriate.
For all long-term contracts or programs, the following information, if applicable, shall be stated in a note to the financial statements:
(i) The aggregate amount of manufacturing or production costs and any related deferred costs (e.g., initial tooling costs) which exceeds the aggregate estimated cost of all in-process and delivered units on the basis of
the estimated average cost of all units expected to be produced under long-term contracts and programs not yet complete, as well as that portion of such amount which would not be absorbed in cost of sales based on existing firm orders at the latest balance sheet date. In addition, if practicable, disclose the amount of deferred costs by type of cost (e.g., initial tooling, deferred production, etc.).
(ii) The aggregate amount representing claims or other similar items subject to uncertainty concerning their determination or ultimate realization, and include a description of the nature and status of the principal items comprising such aggregate amount.
(iii) The amount of progress payments netted against inventory at the date of the balance sheet.
7.
Prepaid expenses.
8.
Other current assets.
State separately, in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, any amounts in excess of five percent of total current assets.
9.
Total current assets, when appropriate.
10.
Securities of related parties.
(See § 210.4-08(k).)
11.
Indebtedness of related parties—not current.
(See § 210.4-08(k).)
12.
Other investments.
The accounting and disclosure requirements for non-current marketable equity securities are specified by generally accepted accounting principles. With respect to other security investments and any other investment, state, parenthetically or otherwise, the basis of determining the aggregate amounts shown in the balance sheet, along with the alternate of the aggregate cost or aggregate market value at the balance sheet date.
13.
Property, plant and equipment.
(a) State the basis of determining the amounts.
(b) Tangible and intangible utility plant of a public utility company shall be segregated so as to show separately the original cost, plant acquisition adjustments, and plant adjustments, as required by the system of accounts prescribed by the applicable regulatory authorities. This rule shall not be applicable in respect to companies which are not required to make such a classification.
14.
Accumulated depreciation, depletion, and amortization of property, plant and equipment.
The amount is to be set forth separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto.
15.
Intangible assets.
State separately each class of such assets which is in excess of five percent of the total assets, along with the basis of determining the respective amounts. Any significant addition or deletion shall be explained in a note.
16.
Accumulated depreciation and amortization of intangible assets.
The amount is to be set forth separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto.
17.
Other assets.
State separately, in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, any other item not properly classed in one of the preceding asset captions which is in excess of five percent to total assets. Any significant addition or deletion should be explained in a note. With respect to any significant deferred charge, state the policy for deferral and amortization.
18.
Total assets.

# Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity

# Current Liabilities, When Appropriate
19.
Accounts and notes payable.
(a) State separately amounts payable to (1) banks for borrowings; (2) factors or other financial institutions for borrowings; (3) holders of commercial paper; (4) trade creditors; (5) related parties (see § 210.4-08(k)); (6) underwriters, promoters, and employees (other than related parties); and (7) others. Amounts applicable to (1), (2) and (3) may be stated separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto.
(b) The amount and terms (including commitment fees and the conditions under which lines may be withdrawn) of unused lines of credit for short-term financing shall be disclosed, if significant, in the notes to the financial statements. The weighted average interest rate on short term borrowings outstanding as of the date of each balance sheet presented shall be furnished in a note. The amount of these lines of credit which support a commercial paper borrowing arrangement or similar arrangements shall be separately identified.
20.
Other current liabilities.
State separately, in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, any item in excess of 5 percent of total current liabilities. Such items may include, but are not limited to, accrued payrolls, accrued interest, taxes, indicating the current portion of deferred income taxes, and the current portion of long-term debt. Remaining items may be shown in one amount.
21.
Total current liabilities, when appropriate.

# Long-Term Debt
22.
Bonds, mortgages and other long-term debt, including capitalized leases.
(a) State separately, in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, each issue or type of obligation and such information as will indicate:
(1) The general character of each type of debt including the rate of interest; (2) the date of maturity, or, if maturing serially, a brief indication of the serial maturities, such as “maturing serially from 1980 to 1990”; (3) if the payment of principal or interest is contingent, an appropriate indication of such contingency; (4) a brief indication of priority; and (5) if convertible, the basis. For amounts owed to related parties, see § 210.4-08(k).
(b) The amount and terms (including commitment fees and the conditions under which commitments may be withdrawn) of unused commitments for long-term financing arrangements that would be disclosed under this rule if used shall be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements if significant.
23.
Indebtedness to related parties—noncurrent.
Include under this caption indebtedness to related parties as required under § 210.4-08(k).
24.
Other liabilities.
State separately, in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, any item not properly classified in one of the preceding liability captions which is in excess of 5 percent of total liabilities.
25.
Commitments and contingent liabilities.
26.
Deferred credits.
State separately in the balance sheet amounts for (a) deferred income taxes, (b) deferred tax credits, and (c) material items of deferred income.

# Redeemable Preferred Stocks
27.
Preferred stocks subject to mandatory redemption requirements or whose redemption is outside the control of the issuer.
(a) Include under this caption amounts applicable to any class of stock which has any of the following characteristics: (1) it is redeemable at a fixed or determinable price on a fixed or determinable date or dates, whether by operation of a sinking fund or otherwise; (2) it is redeemable at the option of the holder; or (3) it has conditions for redemption which are not solely within the control of the issuer, such as stocks which must be redeemed out of future earnings. Amounts attributable to preferred stock which is not redeemable or is redeemable solely at the option of the issuer shall be included under § 210.5-02.28 unless it meets one or more of the above criteria.
(b) State on the face of the balance sheet the title of each issue, the carrying amount, and redemption amount. (If there is more than one issue, these amounts may be aggregated on the face of the balance sheet and details concerning each issue may be presented in the note required by paragraph (c) below.) Show also the dollar amount of any shares subscribed but unissued, and show the deduction of subscriptions receivable therefrom. If the carrying value is different from the redemption amount, describe the accounting treatment for such difference in the note required by paragraph (c) below. Also state in this note or on the face of the balance sheet, for each issue, the number of shares authorized and the number of shares issued or outstanding, as appropriate (See § 210.4-07).
(c) State in a separate note captioned “Redeemable Preferred Stocks” (1) a general description of each issue, including its redemption features (e.g. sinking fund, at option of holders, out of future earnings) and the rights, if any, of holders in the event of default, including the effect, if any, on junior securities in the event a required dividend, sinking fund, or other redemption payment(s) is not made; (2) the combined aggregate amount of redemption requirements for all issues each year for the five years following the date of the latest balance sheet; and (3) the changes in each issue for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed. (See also § 210.4-08(d).)
(d) Securities reported under this caption are not to be included under a general heading “stockholders' equity” or combined in a total with items described in captions 29, 30 or 31 which follow.

# Non-Redeemable Preferred Stocks
28.
Preferred stocks which are not redeemable or are redeemable solely at the option of the issuer.
State on the face of the balance sheet, or if more than one issue is outstanding state in a note, the title of each issue and the dollar amount thereof. Show also the dollar amount of any shares subscribed but unissued, and show the deduction of subscriptions receivable therefrom. State on the face of the balance sheet or in a note, for each issue, the number of shares authorized and the number of shares issued or outstanding, as appropriate (see § 210.4-07). Show in a note or separate statement the changes in each class of preferred shares reported under this caption for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed. (See also § 210.4-08(d).)

# Common Stocks
29.
Common stocks.
For each class of common shares state, on the face of the balance sheet, the number of shares issued or outstanding, as appropriate (see § 210.4-07), and the dollar amount thereof. If convertible, this fact should be indicated on the face of the balance sheet. For each class of common shares state, on the face of the balance sheet or in a note, the title of the issue, the number of shares authorized, and, if convertible, the basis of conversion (see also § 210.4-08(d)). Show also the dollar amount of any common shares subscribed but unissued, and show the deduction of subscriptions receivable therefrom. Show in a note or statement the changes in each class of common shares for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed.

# Other Stockholders' Equity
30.
Other stockholders' equity.
(a) Separate captions shall be shown for (1) additional paid-in capital, (2) other additional capital, (3) retained earnings, (i) appropriated and (ii) unappropriated (See § 210.4-08(e)), and (4) accumulated other comprehensive income.

# Note 1 to paragraph 30.(
a

# ).
Additional paid-in capital and other additional capital
may be combined with the stock caption to which it applies, if appropriate.
(b) For a period of at least 10 years subsequent to the effective date of a quasi-reorganization, any description of retained earnings shall indicate the point in time from which the new retained earnings dates and for a period of at least three years shall indicate, on the face of the balance sheet, the total amount of the deficit eliminated.

# Noncontrolling Interests
31.
Noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries.
State separately in a note the amounts represented by preferred stock and the applicable dividend requirements if the preferred stock is material in relation to the consolidated equity.
32.
Total liabilities and equity.
[45 FR 63671, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43412, Aug. 28, 1981; 47 FR 29837, July 9, 1982; 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 50 FR 49533, Dec. 3, 1985; 59 FR 65636, Dec. 20, 1994; 74 FR 18615, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50201, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.5-03
Statements of comprehensive income.
(a) The purpose of this rule is to indicate the various line items which, if applicable, and except as otherwise permitted by the Commission, should appear on the face of the statements of comprehensive income filed for the persons to whom this article pertains (see § 210.4-01(a)).
(b) If income is derived from more than one of the subcaptions described under § 210.5-03.1, each class which is not more than 10 percent of the sum of the items may be combined with another class. If these items are combined, related costs and expenses as described under § 210.5-03.2 shall be combined in the same manner.
1.
Net sales and gross revenues.
State separately:
(a) Net sales of tangible products (gross sales less discounts, returns and allowances), (b) operating revenues of public utilities or others; (c) income from rentals; (d) revenues from services; and (e) other revenues. Amounts earned from transactions with related parties shall be disclosed as required under § 210.4-08(k). A public utility company using a uniform system of accounts or a form for annual report prescribed by federal or state authorities, or a similar system or report, shall follow the general segregation of operating revenues and operating expenses reported under § 210.5-03.2 prescribed by such system or report. If the total of sales and revenues reported under this caption includes excise taxes in an amount equal to 1 percent or more of such total, the amount of such excise taxes shall be shown on the face of the statement parenthetically or otherwise.
2.
Costs and expenses applicable to sales and revenues.
State separately the amount of (a) cost of tangible goods sold, (b) operating expenses of public utilities or others, (c) expenses applicable to rental income, (d) cost of services, and (e) expenses applicable to other revenues. Merchandising organizations, both wholesale and retail, may include occupancy and buying costs under caption 2(a). Amounts of costs and expenses incurred from transactions with related parties shall be disclosed as required under § 210.4-08(k).
3.
Other operating costs and expenses.
State separately any material amounts not included under caption 2 above.
4.
Selling, general and administrative expenses.
5.
Provision for doubtful accounts and notes.
6.
Other general expenses.
Include items not normally included in caption 4 above. State separately any material item.
7.
Non-operating income.
State separately in the statement of comprehensive income or in a note thereto amounts earned from (a) dividends, (b) interest on securities, (c) profits on securities (net of losses), and (d) miscellaneous other income. Amounts earned from transactions in securities of related parties shall be disclosed as required under § 210.4-08(k). Material amounts included under miscellaneous other income shall be separately stated in the statement of comprehensive income or in a note thereto, indicating clearly the nature of the transactions out of which the items arose.
8.
Interest and amortization of debt discount and expense.
9.
Non-operating expenses.
State separately in the statement of comprehensive income or in a note thereto amounts of (a) losses on securities (net of profits) and (b) miscellaneous income deductions. Material amounts included under miscellaneous income deductions shall be separately stated in the statement of comprehensive income or in a note thereto, indicating clearly the nature of the transactions out of which the items arose.
10.
Income or loss before income tax expense and appropriate items below.
11.
Income tax expense.
Include under this caption only taxes based on income (see § 210.4-08(h)).
12.
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and 50 percent or less owned persons.
State, parenthetically or in a note, the amount of dividends received from such persons. If justified by the circumstances, this item may be presented in a different position and a different manner (see § 210.4-01(a)).
13.
Income or loss from continuing operations.
14.
Discontinued operations.
15.-17. [Reserved]
18.
Net income or loss.
19.
Net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
20.
Net income attributable to the controlling interest.
21.
Other comprehensive income.
State separately the components of and the total for other comprehensive income. Present the components either net of related tax effects or before related tax effects with one amount shown for the aggregate income tax expense or benefit. State the amount of income tax expense or benefit allocated to each component, including reclassification adjustments, in the statement of comprehensive income or in a note.
22.
Comprehensive income.
23.
Comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
24.
Comprehensive income attributable to the controlling interest.
25.
Earnings per share data.
[45 FR 63671, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 76977, Nov. 21, 1980; 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 74 FR 18615, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50202, Oct. 6, 2018]
§ 210.5-04
What schedules are to be filed.
(a) Except as expressly provided otherwise in the applicable form:
(1) The schedules specified below in this Section as Schedules II and III shall be filed as of the date of the most recent audited balanced sheet for each person or group.
(2) Schedule II of this section shall be filed for each period for which an audited statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed for each person or group.
(3) Schedules I and IV shall be filed as of the date and for periods specified in the schedule.
(b) When information is required in schedules for both the registrant and the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated it may be presented in the form of a single schedule:
Provided,
That items pertaining to the registrant are separately shown and that such single schedule affords a properly summarized presentation of the facts. If the information required by any schedule (including the notes thereto) may be shown in the related financial statement or in a note thereto without making such statement unclear or confusing, that procedure may be followed and the schedule omitted.
(c) The schedules shall be examined by the independent accountant if the related financial statements are so examined.
Schedule I—Condensed financial information of registrant.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-04 shall be filed when the restricted net assets (§ 210.1.02(dd)) of consolidated subsidiaries exceed 25 percent of consolidated net assets as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year.
Schedule II—Valuation and qualifying accounts.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-09 shall be filed in support of valuation and qualifying accounts included in each balance sheet but not included in Schedule VI. (See § 210.4-02.)
Schedule III—Real estate and accumulated depreciation.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-28 shall be filed for real estate (and the related accumulated depreciation) held by persons a substantial portion of whose business is that of acquiring and holding for investment real estate or interests in real estate, or interests in other persons a substantial portion of whose business is that of acquiring and holding real estate or interests in real estate for investment. Real estate used in the business shall be excluded from the schedule.
Schedule IV—Mortgage loans on real estate.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-29 shall be filed by persons specified under Schedule XI for investments in mortgage loans on real estate.
Schedule V—Supplemental Information Concerning Property-casualty Insurance Operations.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-18 shall be filed when a registrant, its subsidiaries or 50%-or-less-owned equity basis investees, have liabilities for property-casualty (“P/C”) insurance claims. The required information shall be presented as of the same dates and for the same periods for which the information is reflected in the audited consolidated financial statements required by §§ 210.3-01 and 3-02. The schedule may be omitted if reserves for unpaid P/C claims and claims adjustment expenses of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries, its unconsolidated subsidiaries and its 50%-or-less-owned equity basis investees did not, in the aggregate, exceed one-half of common stockholders' equity of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the beginning of the fiscal year. For purposes of this test only the proportionate share of the registrant and its other subsidiaries in the reserves for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses of 50%-or-less-owned equity basis investees taken in the aggregate
after intercompany eliminations shall be taken into account.
[45 FR 63671, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 48137, Oct. 1, 1981; 46 FR 56180, Nov. 16, 1981; 49 FR 47598, Dec. 6, 1984; 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 59 FR 65636, Dec. 20, 1994; 74 FR 18615, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50202, Oct. 4, 2018]

# Registered Investment Companies and Business Development Companies

# Source:
Sections 210.6-01 through 210.6-10 appear at 47 FR 56838, Dec. 21, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 210.6-01
Application of §§ 210.6-01 to 210.6-11.
Sections 210.6-01 through 210.6-11shall be applicable to financial statements filed for registered investment companies and business development companies.
[81 FR 82010, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 54064, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.6-02
Definition of certain terms.
The following terms shall have the meaning indicated in this rule unless the context otherwise requires. (Also see § 210.1-02 of this part.)
(a)
Affiliate.
The term
affiliate
means an
affiliated person
as defined in section 2(a)(3) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 unless otherwise indicated. The term
control
has the meaning in section 2(a)(9) of that Act.
(b)
Value.
As used in §§ 210.6-01 through 210.6-11, the term
value
shall have the meaning given in section 2(a)(41)(B) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(c)
Balance sheets; statements of net assets.
As used in §§ 210.6-01 through 210.6-11, the term
balance sheets
shall include statements of assets and liabilities as well as statements of net assets unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
(d)
Qualified assets.
(1) For companies issuing face-amount certificates subsequent to December 31, 1940 under the provisions of section 28 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, the term
qualified assets
means qualified investments as that term is defined in section 28(b) of the Act. A statement to that effect shall be made in the balance sheet.
(2) For other companies, the term
qualified assets
means cash and investments which such companies do maintain or are required, by applicable governing legal instruments, to maintain in respect of outstanding face-amount certificates.
(3) Loans to certificate holders may be included as qualified assets in an amount not in excess of certificate reserves carried on the books of account in respect of each individual certificate upon which the loans were made.
(e)
Swing pricing.
The term
swing pricing
shall have the meaning given in § 270.22c-1(a)(3)(v)(C) of this chapter.
[47 FR 56838, Dec. 21, 1982, as amended at 81 FR 82137, Nov. 18, 2016; 85 FR 54064, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.6-03
Special rules of general application to registered investment companies and business development companies.
The financial statements filed for persons to which §§ 210.6-01 through 210.6-11 are applicable shall be prepared in accordance with the following special rules in addition to the general rules in §§ 210.1-01 to 210.4-10 (Articles 1, 2, 3, and 4). Where the requirements of a special rule differ from those prescribed in a general rule, the requirements of the special rule shall be met.
(a)
Content of financial statements.
The financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of this part (Regulation S-X) notwithstanding any provision of the articles of incorporation, trust indenture or other governing legal instruments specifying certain accounting procedures inconsistent with those required in §§ 210.6-01 through 210.6-11.
(b)
Audited financial statements.
Where, under Article 3 of this part, financial statements are required to be audited, the independent accountant shall have been selected and ratified in accordance with section 32 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-31).
(c)
Consolidated and combined statements.
(1) Consolidated and combined statements filed for registered investment companies and business development companies shall be prepared in accordance with §§ 210.3A-02 and 210.3A-03 (Article 3A), except that:
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) A consolidated statement of the registrant and any of its investment company subsidiaries shall not be filed unless accompanied by a consolidating statement which sets forth the individual statements of each significant subsidiary included in the consolidated statement:
Provided, however,
That a consolidating statement need not be filed if all included subsidiaries are totally held; and
(iii) Consolidated or combined statements filed for subsidiaries not consolidated with the registrant shall not include any investment companies unless accompanied by consolidating or combining statements which set forth the individual statements of each included investment company which is a significant subsidiary.
(2) If consolidating or combining statements are filed, the amounts included under each caption in which financial data pertaining to affiliates is required to be furnished shall be subdivided to show separately the amounts:
(i) Eliminated in consolidation; and
(ii) Not eliminated in consolidation.
(d)
Valuation of investments.
The balance sheets of registered investment companies, other than issuers of face-amount certificates, and business development companies, shall reflect all investments at value, with the aggregate cost of each category of investment reported under § 210.6-04 subsection 1, 2, 3, and 9 or the aggregate cost of each category of investment reported under § 210.6-05 subsection 1 shown parenthetically. State in a note the methods used in determining the value of investments. As required by section 28(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-28(b)), qualified assets of face-amount certificate companies shall be valued in accordance with certain provisions of the Code of the District of Columbia.
(e)
Qualified assets.
State in a note the nature of any investments and other assets maintained or required to be maintained, by applicable legal instruments, in respect of outstanding face-amount certificates. If the nature of the qualifying assets and amount thereof are not subject to the provisions of section 28 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-28), a statement to that effect shall be made.
(f)
Restricted securities.
State in a note unless disclosed elsewhere the following information as to investment securities which cannot be offered for public sale without first being registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) (restricted securities):
(1) The policy of the person with regard to acquisition of restricted securities.
(2) The policy of the person with regard to valuation of restricted securities. Specific comments shall be given as to the valuation of an investment in one or more issues of securities of a company or group of affiliated companies if any part of such investment is restricted and the aggregate value of the investment in all issues of such company or affiliated group exceeds five percent of the value of total assets. (As used in this paragraph, the term
affiliated
shall have the meaning given in § 210.6-02(a).)
(3) A description of the person's rights with regard to demanding registration of any restricted securities held at the date of the latest balance sheet.
(g)
Income recognition.
Dividends shall be included in income on the ex-dividend date; interest shall be accrued on a daily basis. Dividends declared on short positions existing on the record date shall be recorded on the ex-dividend date and included as an expense of the period.
(h)
Federal income taxes.
(1) The company's status as a
regulated investment company
as defined in subtitle A, chapter 1, subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, shall be stated in a note referred to in the appropriate statements. Such note shall also indicate briefly the principal assumptions on which the company relied in making or not making provisions for income taxes. However, a company which retains realized capital gains and designates such gains as a distribution to shareholders in accordance with section 852(b)(3)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code shall, on the last day of its taxable year (and not earlier), make provision for taxes on such
undistributed capital gains realized during such year.
(2) State the following amounts based on cost for Federal income tax purposes:
(i) Aggregate gross unrealized appreciation for all investments in which there is an excess of value over tax cost;
(ii) The aggregate gross unrealized depreciation for all investments in which there is an excess of tax cost over value;
(iii) The net unrealized appreciation or depreciation; and
(iv) The aggregate cost of investments for Federal income tax purposes.
(i)
Issuance and repurchase by a registered investment company or business development company of its own securities.
Disclose for each class of the company's securities:
(1) The number of shares, units, or principal amount of bonds sold during the period of report, the amount received therefor, and, in the case of shares sold by closed-end management investment companies, the difference, if any, between the amount received and the net asset value or preference in involuntary liquidation (whichever is appropriate) of securities of the same class prior to such sale; and
(2) The number of shares, units, or principal amount of bonds repurchased during the period of report and the cost thereof. Closed-end management investment companies shall furnish the following additional information as to securities repurchased during the period of report:
(i) As to bonds and preferred shares, the aggregate difference between cost and the face amount or preference in involuntary liquidation and, if applicable net assets taken at value as of the date of repurchase were less than such face amount or preference, the aggregate difference between cost and such net asset value;
(ii) As to common shares, the weighted average discount per share, expressed as a percentage, between cost of repurchase and the net asset value applicable to such shares at the date of repurchases.
Note to paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii): The information required by paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section may be based on reasonable estimates if it is impracticable to determine the exact amounts involved.
(j)
Series companies.
(1) The information required by this part shall, in the case of a person which in essence is comprised of more than one separate investment company, be given as if each class or series of such investment company were a separate investment company; this shall not prevent the inclusion, at the option of such person, of information applicable to other classes or series of such person on a comparative basis, except as to footnotes which need not be comparative.
(2) If the particular class or series for which information is provided may be affected by other classes or series of such investment company, such as by the offset of realized gains in one series with realized losses in another, or through contingent liabilities, such situation shall be disclosed.
(k)
Certificate reserves.
(1) For companies issuing face-amount certificates subsequent to December 31, 1940 under the provisions of section 28 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-28), balance sheets shall reflect reserves for outstanding certificates computed in accordance with the provisions of section 28(a) of the Act.
(2) For other companies, balance sheets shall reflect reserves for outstanding certificates determined as follows:
(i) For certificates of the installment type, such amount which, together with the lesser of future payments by certificate holders as and when accumulated at a rate not to exceed 3
1/2
per centum per annum (or such other rate as may be appropriate under the circumstances of a particular case) compounded annually, shall provide the minimum maturity or face amount of the certificate when due.
(ii) For certificates of the fully-paid type, such amount which, as and when accumulated at a rate not to exceed 3
1/2
per centum per annum (or such other rate as may be appropriate under the circumstances of a particular case) compounded annually, shall provide the amount or amounts payable when due.
(iii) Such amount or accrual therefor, as shall have been credited to the account of any certificate holder in the form of any credit, or any dividend, or any interest in addition to the minimum maturity or face amount specified in the certificate, plus any accumulations on any amount so credited or accrued at rates required under the terms of the certificate.
(iv) An amount equal to all advance payments made by certificate holders, plus any accumulations thereon at rates required under the terms of the certificate.
(v) Amounts for other appropriate contingency reserves, for death and disability benefits or for reinstatement rights on any certificate providing for such benefits or rights.
(l)
Inapplicable captions.
Attention is directed to the provisions of §§ 210.4-02 and 210.4-03 which permit the omission of separate captions in financial statements as to which the items and conditions are not present, or the amounts involved not significant. However, amounts involving directors, officers, and affiliates shall nevertheless be separately set forth except as otherwise specifically permitted under a particular caption.
(m)
Swing pricing.
For a registered investment company that has adopted swing pricing policies and procedures, state in a note to the company's financial statements:
(1) The general methods used in determining whether the company's net asset value per share will swing;
(2) Whether the company's net asset value per share has swung during the year; and
(3) A general description of the effects of swing pricing.
[81 FR 82010, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 82137, Nov. 18, 2016; 83 FR 50202, Oct. 4, 2018; 85 FR 54064, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 807, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 210.6-04
Balance sheets.
This section is applicable to balance sheets filed by registered investment companies and business development companies except for persons who substitute a statement of net assets in accordance with the requirements specified in § 210.6-05, and issuers of face-amount certificates which are subject to the special provisions of § 210.6-06. Balance sheets filed under this rule shall comply with the following provisions:

# Assets
1.
Investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
2.
Investments in and advances to affiliates.
State separately investments in and advances to: (a) Controlled companies and (b) other affiliates.
3.
Other investments.
State separately amounts of assets related to (a) variation margin receivable on futures contracts, (b) forward foreign currency contracts; (c) swap contracts; and (d) investments—other than those presented in §§ 210.12-12, 12-12A, 12-12B, 12-13, 12-13A, 12-13B, and 12-13C.
4.
Cash.
Include under this caption cash on hand and demand deposits. Provide in a note to the financial statements the information required under § 210.5-02.1 regarding restrictions and compensating balances.
5.
Receivables.
(a) State separately amounts receivable from (1) sales of investments; (2) subscriptions to capital shares; (3) dividends and interest; (4) directors and officers; and (5) others.
(b) If the aggregate amount of notes receivable exceeds 10 percent of the aggregate amount of receivables, the above information shall be set forth separately, in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, for accounts receivable and notes receivable.
6.
Deposits for securities sold short and other investments.
State separately amounts held by others in connection with: (a) Short sales; (b) open option contracts (c) futures contracts, (d) forward foreign currency contracts; (e) swap contracts; and (f) investments—other than those presented in §§ 210.12-12, 12-12A, 12-12B, 12-13, 12-13A, 12-13B, and 12-13C.
7.
Other assets.
State separately (a) prepaid and deferred expenses; (b) pension and other special funds; (c) organization expenses; and (d) any other significant item not properly classified in another asset caption.
8.
Total assets.

# Liabilities
9.
Other investments.
State separately amounts of liabilities related to: (a) Securities sold short; (b) open option contracts written; (c) variation margin payable on futures contracts, (d) forward foreign currency contracts; (e) swap contracts; and (f) investments—other than those presented in §§ 210.12-12, 12-12A, 12-12B, 12-13, 12-13A, 12-13B, and 12-13C.
10.
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.
State separately amounts payable for: (a) Other purchases of securities; (b) capital shares redeemed; (c) dividends or other distributions on capital shares; and (d) others.
State separately the amount of any other liabilities which are material.
11.
Deposits for securities loaned.
State the value of securities loaned and indicate the nature of the collateral received as security for the loan, including the amount of any cash received.
12.
Other liabilities.
State separately (a) amounts payable for investment advisory, management and service fees; and (b) the total amount payable to: (1) Officers and directors; (2) controlled companies; and (3) other affiliates, excluding any amounts owing to noncontrolled affiliates which arose in the ordinary course of business and which are subject to usual trade terms.
13.
Notes payable, bonds and similar debt.
(a) State separately amounts payable to: (1) Banks or other financial institutions for borrowings; (2) controlled companies; (3) other affiliates; and (4) others, showing for each category amounts payable within one year and amounts payable after one year.
(b) Provide in a note the information required under § 210.5-02.19(b) regarding unused lines of credit for short-term financing and § 210.5-02.22(b) regarding unused commitments for long-term financing arrangements.
14.
Total liabilities.
15.
Commitments and contingent liabilities.

# Net Assets
16.
Units of capital.
(a) Disclose the title of each class of capital shares or other capital units, the number authorized, the number outstanding, and the dollar amount thereof.
(b) Unit investment trusts, including those which are issuers of periodic payment plan certificates, also shall state in a note to the financial statements: (1) The total cost to the investors of each class of units or shares; (2) the adjustment for market depreciation or appreciation; (3) other deductions from the total cost to the investors for fees, loads and other charges, including an explanation of such deductions; and (4) the net amount applicable to the investors.
17.
Total distributable earnings (loss).
Disclose total distributable earnings (loss), which generally comprise:
(a) Accumulated undistributed investment income-net,
(b) accumulated undistributed net realized gains (losses) on investment transactions, and (c) net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) in value of investments at the balance sheet date.
18.
Other elements of capital.
Disclose any other elements of capital or residual interests appropriate to the capital structure of the reporting entity.
19.
Net assets applicable to outstanding units of capital.
State the net asset value per share.
[81 FR 82011, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 50202, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.6-05
Statements of net assets.
In lieu of the balance sheet otherwise required by § 210.6-04, persons may substitute a statement of net assets if at least 95 percent of the amount of the person's total assets are represented by investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers. If presented in such instances, a statement of net assets shall consist of the following:

# Statements of Net Assets
1. A schedule of investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers as prescribed in § 210.12-12.
2. The excess (or deficiency) of other assets over (under) total liabilities stated in one amount, except that any amounts due from or to officers, directors, controlled persons, or other affiliates, excluding any amounts owing to noncontrolled affiliates which arose in the ordinary course of business and which are subject to usual trade terms, shall be stated separately.
3. Disclosure shall be provided in the notes to the financial statements for any item required under § 210.6-04.3 and §§ 210.6-04.9 to 210.6-04.13.
4. The balance of the amounts captioned as
net assets.
The number of outstanding shares and net asset value per share shall be shown parenthetically.
5. The information required by (i) § 210.6-04.16, (ii) § 210.6-04.17 and (iii) § 210.6-04.18 shall be furnished in a note to the financial statements.
[81 FR 82012, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.6-06
Special provisions applicable to the balance sheets of issuers of face-amount certificates.
Balance sheets filed by issuers of face-amount certificates shall comply with the following provisions:

# Assets
1.
Investments.
State separately each major category: such as, real estate owned, first mortgage loans on real estate, other mortgage loans on real estate, investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers, and investments in and advances to affiliates.
2.
Cash.
Include under this caption cash on hand and demand deposits. Provide in a note to the financial statements the information required under § 210.5-02.1 regarding restrictions and compensating balances.
3.
Receivables.
(a) State separately amounts receivable from (1) sales of investments; (2) dividends and interest; (3) directors and officers; and (4) others.
(b) If the aggregate amount of notes receivable exceeds 10 percent of the aggregate
amount of receivables, the above information shall be set forth separately, in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, for accounts receivable and notes receivable.
4.
Total qualified assets.
State in a note to the financial statements the amount of qualified assets on deposit classified as to general categories of assets and as to general types of depositories, such as banks and states, together with a statement as to the purpose of the deposits.
5.
Other assets.
State separately: (a) Investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers not included in qualifying assets in item 1 above; (b) investments in and advances to affiliates not included in qualifying assets in item 1 above; and (c) any other significant item not properly classified in another asset caption.
6.
Total assets.

# Liabilities
7.
Certificate reserves.
Issuers of face-amount certificates shall state separately reserves for: (a) Certificates of the installment type; (b) certificates of the fully-paid type; (c) advance payments; (d) additional amounts accrued for or credited to the account of certificate holders in the form of any credit, dividend, or interest in addition to the minimum amount specified in the certificate; and (e) other certificate reserves. State in an appropriate manner the basis used in determining the reserves, including the rates of interest of accumulation.
8.
Notes payable, bonds and similar debt.
(a) State separately amounts payable to: (1) Banks or other financial institutions for borrowings; (2) controlled companies; (3) other affiliates; and (4) others, showing for each category amounts payable within one year and amounts payable after one year.
(b) Provide in a note the information required under § 210.5-02.19(b) regarding unused lines of credit for short-term financing and § 210.5-02.22(b) regarding unused commitments for long-term financing arrangements.
9.
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.
State separately (a) amounts payable for investment advisory, management and service fees; and (b) the total amount payable to: (1) Officers and directors; (2) controlled companies; and (3) other affiliates, excluding any amounts owing to noncontrolled affiliates which arose in the ordinary course of business and which are subject to usual trade terms. State separately the amount of any other liabilities which are material.
10.
Total liabilities.
11.
Commitments and contingent liabilities.

# Stockholders' Equity
12.
Capital shares.
Disclose the title of each class of capital shares or other capital units, the number authorized, the number outstanding and the dollar amount thereof. Show also the dollar amount of any capital shares subscribed but unissued, and show the deduction for subscriptions receivable therefrom.
13.
Other elements of capital.
(a) Disclose any other elements of capital or residual interests appropriate to the capital structure of the reporting entity.
(b) A summary of each account under this caption setting forth the information prescribed in § 210.3-04 shall be given in a note or separate statement for each period in which a statement of operations is presented.
14.
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity.
§ 210.6-07
Statements of operations.
Statements of operations, or statements of comprehensive income, where applicable, filed by registered investment companies, other than issuers of face-amount certificates, subject to the special provisions of § 210.6-08, and business development companies, shall comply with the following provisions:

# Statements of Operations
1.
Investment income.
State separately income from: (a) Dividends; (b) interest on securities; and (c) other income. Any other category of income which exceeds five percent of the total shown under this caption (
e.g.
income from non-cash dividends, income from payment-in-kind interest) shall be stated separately. If income from investments in or indebtedness of affiliates is included hereunder, such income shall be segregated under an appropriate caption subdivided to show separately income from: (1) Controlled companies; and (2) other affiliates. If income from non-cash dividends or payment in kind interest are included in income, the bases of recognition and measurement used in respect to such amounts shall be disclosed.
2.
Expenses.
(a) State separately the total amount of investment advisory, management and service fees, and expenses in connection with research, selection, supervision, and custody of investments. Amounts of expenses incurred from transactions with affiliated persons shall be disclosed together with the identity of and related amount applicable to each such person accounting for five percent or more of the total expenses shown under this caption together with a description of the nature of the affiliation. Expenses incurred within the person's own organization in connection with research, selection and supervision of investments shall be stated separately. Reductions or reimbursements of management or service fees shall be shown as a negative amount or as a reduction of total expenses shown under this caption.
(b) State separately any other expense item the amount of which exceeds five percent of the total expenses shown under this caption.
(c) A note to the financial statements shall include information concerning management and service fees, the rate of fee, and the base and method of computation. State separately the amount and a description of any fee reductions or reimbursements representing: (1) Expense limitation agreements or commitments; and (2) offsets received from broker-dealers showing separately for each amount received or due from (i) unaffiliated persons; and (ii) affiliated persons. If no management or service fees were incurred for a period, state the reason therefor.
(d) If any expenses were paid otherwise than in cash, state the details in a note.
(e) State in a note to the financial statements the amount of brokerage commissions (including dealer markups) paid to affiliated broker-dealers in connection with purchase and sale of investment securities. Open-end management companies shall state in a note the net amounts of sales charges deducted from the proceeds of sale of capital shares which were retained by any affiliated principal underwriter or other affiliated broker-dealer.
(f) State separately all amounts paid in accordance with a plan adopted under 17 CFR 270.12b-1 of this chapter. Reimbursement to the fund of expenses incurred under such plan (12b-1 expense reimbursement) shall be shown as a negative amount and deducted from current 12b-1 expenses. If 12b-1 expense reimbursements exceed current 12b-1 costs, such excess shall be shown as a negative amount used in the calculation of total expenses under this caption.
(g)(1)
Brokerage/Service Arrangements.
If a broker-dealer or an affiliate of the broker-dealer has, in connection with directing the person's brokerage transactions to the broker-dealer, provided, agreed to provide, paid for, or agreed to pay for, in whole or in part, services provided to the person (other than brokerage and research services as those terms are used in section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78bb(e)]), include in the expense items set forth under this caption the amount that would have been incurred by the person for the services had it paid for the services directly in an arms-length transaction.
(2)
Expense Offset Arrangements.
If the person has entered into an agreement with any other person pursuant to which such other person reduces, or pays a third party which reduces, by a specified or reasonably ascertainable amount, its fees for services provided to the person in exchange for use of the person's assets, include in the expense items set forth under this caption the amount of fees that would have been incurred by the person if the person had not entered into the agreement.
(3)
Financial Statement Presentation.
Show the total amount by which expenses are increased pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph (2)(g) as a corresponding reduction in total expenses under this caption. In a note to the financial statements, state separately the total amounts by which expenses are increased pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph (2)(g), and list each category of expense that is increased by an amount equal to at least 5 percent of total expenses. If applicable, the note should state that the person could have employed the assets used by another person to produce income if it had not entered into an arrangement described in paragraph (2)(g)(2) of this section.
3.
Interest and amortization of debt discount and expense.
Provide in the body of the statements or in the footnotes, the average dollar amount of borrowings and the average interest rate.
4.
Investment income before income tax expense.
5.
Income tax expense.
Include under this caption only taxes based on income.
6.
Investment income-net.
7.
Realized and unrealized gain (loss) on investments-net.
(a) State separately the net realized gain or loss from: (1) Transactions in investment securities of unaffiliated issuers, (2) transactions in investment securities of affiliated issuers, (3) expiration or closing of option contracts written, (4) closed short positions in securities, (5) expiration or closing of futures contracts, (6) settlement of forward foreign currency contracts, (7) expiration or closing of swap contracts, and (8) transactions in other investments held during the period.
(b) Distributions of realized gains by other investment companies shall be shown separately under this caption.
(c) State separately the amount of the net increase or decrease during the period in the unrealized appreciation or depreciation in the value of: (1) Investment securities of unaffiliated issuers, (2) investment securities of affiliated issuers, (3) option contracts written, (4) short positions in securities, (5) futures contracts, (6) forward foreign currency contracts, (7) swap contracts, and (8) other investments held at the end of the period.
(d) State separately any: (1) Federal income taxes and (2) other income taxes applicable to realized and unrealized gain (loss) on investments, distinguishing taxes payable currently from deferred income taxes.
8.
Net gain (loss) on investments.
9.
Net increase (decrease) in net assets resulting from operations.
[81 FR 82012, Nov. 18, 2016; 83 FR 50202, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.6-08
Special provisions applicable to the statements of operations of issuers of face-amount certificates.
Statements of operations filed by issuers of face-amount certificates shall comply with the following provisions:

# Statements of Operations
1.
Investment income.
State separately income from: (a) Interest on mortgages; (b) interest on securities; (c) dividends; (d) rental income; and (e) other investment income. If income from investments in or indebtedness of affiliates is included hereunder, such income shall be segregated under an appropriate caption subdivided to show separately income from: (1) Controlled companies; and (2) other affiliates. If non-cash dividends are included in income, the bases of recognition and measurement used in respect to such amounts shall be disclosed. Any other category of income which exceeds five percent of the total shown under this caption shall be stated separately.
2.
Investment expenses.
(a) State separately the total amount of investment advisory, management and service fees, and expenses in connection with research, selection, supervision, and custody of investments. Amounts of expenses incurred from transactions with affiliated persons shall be disclosed together with the identity of and related amount applicable to each such person accounting for five percent or more of the total expenses shown under this caption together with a description of the nature of the affiliation. Expenses incurred within the person's own organization in connection with research, selection and supervision of investments shall be stated separately. Reductions or reimbursements of management or service fees shall be shown as a negative amount or as a reduction of total expenses shown under this caption.
(b) State separately any other expense item the amount of which exceeds five percent of the total expenses shown under this caption.
(c) A note to the financial statements shall include information concerning management and service fees, the rate of fee, and the base and method of computation. State separately the amount and a description of any fee reductions or reimbursements representing: (1) Expense limitation agreements or commitments; and (2) offsets received from broker-dealers showing separately for each amount received or due from: (i) Unaffiliated persons; and (ii) affiliated persons. If no management or service fees were incurred for a period, state the reason therefor.
(d) If any expenses were paid otherwise than in cash, state the details in a note.
(e) State in a note to the financial statements the amount of brokerage commissions (including dealer markups) paid to affiliated broker-dealers in connection with purchase and sale of investment securities.
3.
Interest and amortization of debt discount and expense.
4.
Provision for certificate reserves.
State separately any provision for additional credits, or dividends, or interests, in addition to the minimum maturity or face amount specified in the certificates. State also in an appropriate manner reserve recoveries from surrenders or other causes.
5.
Investment income before income tax expense.
6.
Income tax expense.
Include under this caption only taxes based on income.
7.
Investment income-net.
8.
Realized gain (loss) on investments-net.
(a) State separately the net realized gain or loss on transactions in: (1) Investment securities of unaffiliated issuers, (2) investment securities of affiliated issuers, and (3) other investments.
(b) Distributions of capital gains by other investment companies shall be shown separately under this caption.
(c) State separately any: (1) Federal income taxes and (2) other income taxes applicable to realized gain (loss) on investments, distinguishing taxes payable currently from deferred income taxes.
9.
Net income or loss.
§ 210.6-09
Statements of changes in net assets.
Statements of changes in net assets filed for persons to whom this article is applicable shall comply with the following provisions:

# Statements of Changes in Net Assets
1.
Operations.
State separately: (a) Investment income-net as shown by § 210.6-07.6; (b) realized gain (loss) on investments-net of any Federal or other income taxes applicable to such amounts; (c) increase (decrease) in unrealized appreciation or depreciation-net of any Federal or other income taxes applicable to such amounts; and (d) net increase (decrease) in net assets resulting from operations as shown by § 210.6-07.9.
2.
Net equalization charges and credits.
State the net amount of accrued undivided earnings separately identified in the price of capital shares issued and repurchased.
3.
Distributions to shareholders.
State total distributions to shareholders which generally come from: (a) Investment income-net; (b) realized gain from investment transactions-net; and (c) other sources, except tax return of capital distributions, which shall be disclosed separately.
4.
Capital share transactions.
(a) State the increase or decrease in net assets derived
from the net change in the number of outstanding shares or units.
(b) Disclose in the body of the statements or in the notes, for each class of the person's shares, the number and value of shares issued in reinvestment of dividends as well as the number and dollar amounts received for shares sold and paid for shares redeemed.
5.
Total increase (decrease).
6.
Net assets at the beginning of the period.
7.
Net assets at the end of the period.
[47 FR 56838, Dec. 21, 1982, as amended at 83 FR 50202, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.6-10
What schedules are to be filed.
(a) When information is required in schedules for both the person and its subsidiaries consolidated, it may be presented in the form of a single schedule, provided that items pertaining to the registrant are separately shown and that such single schedule affords a properly summarized presentation of the facts.
(b) The schedules shall be examined by an independent accountant if the related financial statements are so examined.
(c)
Management investment companies.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in the applicable form, the schedules specified in this paragraph shall be filed for management investment companies as of the dates of the most recent audited balance sheet and any subsequent unaudited statement being filed for each person or group.
Schedule I—Investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-12 shall be filed in support of caption 1 of each balance sheet.
Schedule II—Investments in and advances to affiliates.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-14 shall be filed in support of caption 2 of each balance sheet.
Schedule III—Investments—securities sold short.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-12A shall be filed in support of caption 9(a) of each balance sheet.
Schedule IV—Open option contracts written.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-13 shall be filed in support of caption 9(b) of each balance sheet.
Schedule V—Open futures contracts.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-13A shall be filed in support of captions 3(a) and 9(c) of each balance sheet.
Schedule VI—Open forward foreign currency contracts.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-13B shall be filed in support of captions 3(b) and 9(d) of each balance sheet.
Schedule VII—Open swap contracts.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-13C shall be filed in support of captions 3(c) and 9(e) of each balance sheet.
Schedule VIII—Investments—other than those presented in §§ 210.12-12, 12-12A, 12-12B, 12-13, 12-13A, 12-13B and 12-13C.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-13D shall be filed in support of captions 3(d) and 9(f) of each balance sheet.
(2) When permitted by the applicable form, the schedule specified in this paragraph may be filed for management investment companies as of the dates of the most recent audited balance sheet and any subsequent unaudited statement being filed for each person or group.
Schedule IX—Summary schedule of investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-12B may be filed in support of caption 1 of each balance sheet.
(d)
Unit investment trusts.
Except as otherwise provided in the applicable form:
(1) Schedules I and II, specified below in this section, shall be filed for unit investment trusts as of the dates of the most recent audited balance sheet and any subsequent unaudited statement being filed for each person or group.
(2) Schedule III, specified below in this section, shall be filed for unit investment trusts for each period for which a statement of operations is required to be filed for each person or group.
Schedule I—Investment in securities.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-12 shall be filed in support of caption 1 of each balance sheet (§ 210.6-04).
Schedule II—Allocation of trust assets to series of trust shares.
If the trust assets are specifically allocated to different series of trust shares, and if such allocation is not shown in the balance sheet in columnar form or by the filing of separate statements for each series of trust shares, a schedule shall be filed showing the amount of trust assets, indicated by each balance sheet filed, which is applicable to each series of trust shares.
Schedule III—Allocation of trust income and distributable funds to series of trust shares.
If the trust income and distributable funds are specifically allocated to different series of trust shares and if such allocation is not shown in the statement of operations in columnar form or by the filing of separate statements for each series of trust shares, a schedule shall be submitted showing the amount of income and distributable funds, indicated by each statement of operations filed, which is applicable to each series of trust shares.
(e)
Face-amount certificate investment companies.
Except as otherwise provided in the applicable form:
(1) Schedules I, V and X, specified below, shall be filed for face-amount certificate investment companies as of the dates of the most recent audited balance sheet and any subsequent unaudited statement being filed for each person or group.
(2) All other schedules specified below in this section shall be filed for face-amount certificate investment companies for each period for which a statement of operations is filed, except as indicated for Schedules III and IV.
Schedule I—Investment in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-21 shall be filed in support of caption 1 and, if applicable, caption 5(a) of each balance sheet. Separate schedules shall be furnished in support of each caption, if applicable.
Schedule II—Investments in and advances to affiliates and income thereon.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-22 shall be filed in support of captions 1 and 5(b) of each balance sheet and caption 1 of each statement of operations. Separate schedules shall be furnished in support of each caption, if applicable.
Schedule III—Mortgage loans on real estate and interest earned on mortgages.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-23 shall be filed in support of captions 1 and 5(c) of each balance sheet and caption 1 of each statement of operations, except that only the information required by Column G and note 8 of the schedule need be furnished in support of statements of operations for years for which related balance sheets are not required.
Schedule IV—Real estate owned and rental income.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-24 shall be filed in support of captions 1 and 5(a) of each balance sheet and caption 1 of each statement of operations for rental income included therein, except that only the information required by Columns H, I and J, and item “Rent from properties sold during the period” and note 4 of the schedule need be furnished in support of statements of operations for years for which related balance sheets are not required.
Schedule V—Qualified assets on deposit.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-27 shall be filed in support of the information required by caption 4 of § 210.6-06 as to total amount of qualified assets on deposit.
Schedule VI—Certificate reserves.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-26 shall be filed in support of caption 7 of each balance sheet.
Schedule VII—Valuation and qualifying accounts.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-09 shall be filed in support of all other reserves included in the balance sheet.
[81 FR 82013, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.6-11
Financial statements of funds acquired or to be acquired.
(a)
Financial statements required.
(1) Financial statements described in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02, or § 210.3-18, as applicable, including the schedules specified in §§ 210.12-01 through 210.12-29 (Article 12), prepared and audited in accordance with Regulation S-X (including the independence standards in § 210.2-01 or, alternatively if the fund is not a registrant, the applicable independence standards) for the periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (d) of this section must be filed if any of the following conditions exist:
(i) During the most recent fiscal year or subsequent interim period for which a balance sheet is required by § 210.3-01 or § 210.3-18, a fund acquisition has occurred; or
(ii) After the date of the most recent balance sheet filed pursuant to § 210.3-01 or § 210.3-18 or, if no relevant balance sheet has been filed in connection with a post-effective amendment for a new
series submitted pursuant to § 230.485(a)(2) of this chapter (Rule 485(a)(2) under the Securities Act), the filing of such amendment, consummation of a fund acquisition has occurred or is probable.
(2) For purposes of this section:
(i) The term
fund
includes any investment company as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, including a business development company, or any company that would be an investment company but for the exclusions provided by sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act, or any private account managed by an investment adviser.
(ii) The determination of whether a fund has been acquired or will be acquired should be evaluated in light of the facts and circumstances involved. Among the facts and circumstances which should be considered in evaluating whether a fund acquisition has occurred or will occur are whether it will result in the acquisition by the registrant of all or substantially all of the portfolio investments held by another fund.
(3) Acquisitions of a group of related funds that are probable or that have occurred subsequent to the latest fiscal year-end for which audited financial statements of the registrant have been filed will be treated under this section as if they are a single acquisition. For purposes of this section, funds will be deemed to be related if:
(i) They are under common control or management;
(ii) The acquisition of one fund is conditional on the acquisition of each other fund; or
(iii) Each acquisition is conditioned on a single common event.
(4) This section does not apply to a fund which is totally held by the registrant prior to consummation of the transaction.
(b)
Periods to be presented.
(1) If securities are being registered to be offered to the security holders of the fund to be acquired, the financial statements specified in §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02 or § 210.3-18 for the fund to be acquired and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (d) of this section must be filed, except as provided otherwise for filings on Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter). The financial statements covering the fiscal year must be audited except as provided in Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) with respect to certain proxy statements or in registration statements filed on Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter).
(2) In all cases not specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, financial statements of the fund acquired or to be acquired for the periods specified in this paragraph (b)(2) or such shorter period as the fund has been in existence and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (d) of this section must be filed. Whether such financial statements and supplemental information are to be filed must be determined using the conditions specified in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w)(2)(i) and (w)(2)(ii)(B) as follows:
(i) If none of the conditions set forth in § 210.1-02(w)(2)(i) and (w)(2)(ii)(B), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein, are satisfied, the financial statements and supplemental financial information in paragraph (d) of this section are not required.
(ii) If any of the conditions set forth in § 210.1-02(w)(2)(i) and (w)(2)(ii)(B), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein, are satisfied, the financial statements of the acquired fund must be filed. If the acquired fund is subject to § 210.3-18, then the financial statements for the periods described therein must be filed. For all other acquired funds, the financial statements for the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period must be filed. The registrant must also provide the supplemental financial information in paragraph (d) of this section.
(iii) If the aggregate impact of funds acquired or to be acquired since the date of the most recent audited balance sheet filed for the registrant, for which financial statements are not required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, satisfies any of the conditions set forth in § 210.1-02(w)(2)(i) and (w)(2)(ii)(B), substituting 50 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein, the registrant must provide financial statements for any fund acquired or to be
acquired for which financial statements are not yet required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. If any of the acquired funds are subject to § 210.3-18, then the financial statements for the periods described therein must be filed. For any other acquired funds, the financial statements for the most recent fiscal year and the most recent interim period must be filed. The registrant must also provide the supplemental financial information in paragraph (d) of this section for such funds.
(3) The determination must be made by comparing the most recent annual financial statement of each such fund, or for acquisitions each group of related funds on a combined basis, to the registrant's most recent annual financial statements filed at or prior to the date of acquisition. However, the determination may be made by using pro forma amounts as calculated by the registrant for the periods specified in § 210.1-02(w)(2) that only give effect to an acquisition consummated after the latest fiscal year-end for which the registrant's financial statements are required to be filed when the registrant has filed audited financial statements of such acquired fund and provided the supplemental financial information for the periods required by this section.
(4) Separate financial statements of the acquired fund and the supplemental information specified in paragraph (d) of this section need only to be filed once and not included in any subsequent filing or shareholder report.
(c)
Acquisitions involving private funds or private accounts.
If the fund acquired or to be acquired would be an investment company under the Investment Company Act but for the exclusion provided from that definition by either sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act, then the required financial statements may comply with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and only Article 12. In situations of any private account managed by an investment adviser provide the schedules specified in Article 12 for the assets acquired or to be acquired.
(d)
Supplemental financial information.
(1) Supplemental financial information must consist of:
(i) A table showing the current fees for the registrant and the acquired fund and pro forma fees, if different, for the registrant after giving effect to the acquisition using the format prescribed in the appropriate registration statement under the Investment Company Act;
(ii) If the transaction will result in a material change in the acquired fund's investment portfolio due to investment restrictions, a schedule of investments of the acquired fund modified to reflect such change and accompanied by narrative disclosure describing the change; and
(iii) Narrative disclosure about material differences in accounting policies of the acquired fund when compared to the registrant.
(2) With respect to any fund acquisition, registered investment companies and business development companies must provide the supplemental financial information required in this section in lieu of any pro forma financial information required by §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-03.
[85 FR 54064, Aug. 31, 2020]

# Employee Stock Purchase, Savings and Similar Plans
§ 210.6A-01
Application of §§ 210.6A-01 to 210.6A-05.
(a) Sections 210.6A-01 to 210.6A-05 shall be applicable to financial statements filed for employee stock purchase, savings and similar plans.
(b) [Reserved]
[47 FR 56843, Dec. 21, 1982]
§ 210.6A-02
Special rules applicable to employee stock purchase, savings and similar plans.
The financial statements filed for persons to which this article is applicable shall be prepared in accordance with the following special rules in addition to the general rules in §§ 210.1-01 to 210.4-10. Where the requirements of a special rule differ from those prescribed in a general rule, the requirements of the special rule shall be met.
(a)
Investment programs.
If the participating employees have an option as to the manner in which their deposits and contributions may be invested, a description of each investment program shall be given in a footnote or otherwise. The number of employees under
each investment program shall be stated.
(b)
Net asset value per unit.
Where appropriate, the number of units and the net asset value per unit shall be given by footnote or otherwise.
(c)
Federal income taxes.
(1) If the plan is not subject to Federal income taxes, a note shall so state indicating briefly the principal assumptions on which the plan relied in not making provision for such taxes.
(2) State the Federal income tax status of the employee with respect to the plan.
(d)
Valuation of assets.
The statement of financial condition shall reflect all investments at value, showing cost parenthetically. For purposes of this rule, the term
value
shall mean (1) market value for those securities having readily available market quotations and (2) fair value as determined in good faith by the trustee(s) for the plan (or by the person or persons who exercise similar responsibilities) with respect to other securities and assets.
[47 FR 56843, Dec. 21, 1982]
§ 210.6A-03
Statements of financial condition.
Statements of financial condition filed under this rule shall comply with the following provisions:

# Plan Assets
1.
Investments in securities of participating employers.
State separately each class of securities of the participating employer or employers.
2.
Investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
(a)
United States Government bonds and other obligations.
Include only direct obligations of the United States Government.
(b)
Other securities.
State separately (1) marketable securities and (2) other securities.
3.
Investments. Other than securities.
State separately each major class.
4.
Dividends and interest receivable.
5.
Cash.
6.
Other assets.
State separately (a) total of amounts due from participating employers or any of their directors, officers and principal holders of equity securities; (b) total of amounts due from trustees or managers of the plan; and (c) any other significant amounts.

# Liabilities and Plan Equity
7.
Liabilities.
State separately (a) total of amounts payable to participating employers; (b) total of amounts payable to participating employees; and (c) any other significant amounts.
8.
Reserves and other credits.
State separately each significant item and describe each such item by using an appropriate caption or by a footnote referred to in the caption.
9.
Plan equity at close of period.
[27 FR 7870, Aug. 9, 1962. Redesignated at 47 FR 56843, Dec. 21, 1982]
§ 210.6A-04
Statements of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity.
Statements of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity filed under this rule shall comply with the following provisions:
1.
Net investment income.
(a)
Income.
State separately income from (1) cash dividends; (2) interest, and (3) other sources. Income from investments in or indebtedness of participating employers shall be segregated under the appropriate subcaption.
(b)
Expenses.
State separately any significant amounts.
(c)
Net investment income.
2.
Realized gain or loss on investments.
(a) State separately the net of gains or losses arising from transactions in (1) investments in securities of the participating employer or employers; (2) other investments in securities; and (3) other investments.
(b) State in a footnote or otherwise for each category of investment in paragraph (a) above the aggregate cost, the aggregate proceeds and the net gain or loss. State the principle followed in determining the cost of securities sold, e.g.,
average cost
or
first-in, first-out.
3.
Unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments.
(a) State the amount of increase or decrease in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments during the period.
(b) State in a footnote or otherwise the amount of unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments at the beginning of the period of report, at the end of the period of report, and the increase or decrease during the period.
4.
Contributions and deposits.
(a) State separately (1) total of amounts deposited by participating employees, and (2) total of amounts contributed by the participating employer or employers.
(b) If employees of more than one employer participate in the plan, state in tabular form
in a footnote or otherwise the amount contributed by each employer and the deposits of the employees of each such employer.
5.
Withdrawals, lapses and forfeitures.
State separately (a) balances of employees' accounts withdrawn, lapsed or forfeited during the period; (b) amounts disbursed in settlement of such accounts; and (c) disposition of balances remaining after settlement specified in (b).
6.
Plan equity at beginning of period.
7.
Plan equity at end of period.
[27 FR 7870, Aug. 9, 1962. Redesignated at 47 FR 56843, Dec. 21, 1982; 83 FR 50203, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.6A-05
What schedules are to be filed.
(a) Schedule I of this section shall be filed as of the most recent audited statement of financial condition and any subsequent unaudited statement of financial condition being filed. Schedule II of this section shall be filed as of the date of each statement of financial condition being filed. Schedule III of this section shall be filed for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity is filed. All schedules shall be audited if the related statements are audited.
Schedule I—Investments.
A schedule substantially in form prescribed by § 210.12-12 shall be filed in support of captions 1, 2 and 3 of each statement of financial condition unless substantially all of the information is given in the statement of financial condition by footnote or otherwise.
Schedule II—Allocation of plan assets and liabilities to investment program.
If the plan provides for separate investment programs with separate funds, and if the allocation of assets and liabilities to the several funds is not shown in the statement of financial condition in columnar form or by the submission of separate statements for each fund, a schedule shall be submitted showing the allocation of each caption of each statement of financial condition filed to the applicable fund.
Schedule III—Allocation of plan income and changes in plan equity to investment programs.
If the plan provides for separate investment programs with separate funds, and if the allocation of income and changes in plan equity to the several funds is not shown in the statement of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity in columnar form or by the submission of separate statements for each fund, a schedule shall be submitted showing the allocation of each caption of each statement of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity filed to the applicable fund.
(b) [Reserved]
[45 FR 63676, Sept. 25, 1980. Redesignated at 47 FR 56843, Dec. 21, 1982, and amended at 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 83 FR 50203, Oct. 4, 2018]

# Insurance Companies

# Source:
Sections 210.7-01 through 210.7-05 appears at 46 FR 54335, Nov. 2, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 210.7-01
Application of §§ 210.7-01 to 210.7-05.
This article shall be applicable to financial statements filed for insurance companies.
§ 210.7-02
General requirement.
(a) The requirements of the general rules in §§ 210.1-01 to 210.4-10 (Articles 1, 2, 3, 3A and 4) shall be applicable except where they differ from requirements of §§ 210.7-01 to 210.7-05.
(b) Financial statements filed for mutual life insurance companies and wholly owned stock insurance company subsidiaries of mutual life insurance companies may be prepared in accordance with statutory accounting requirements. Financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting requirements may be condensed as appropriate, but the amounts to be reported for net gain from operations (or net income or loss) and total capital and surplus (or surplus as regards policyholders) shall be the same as those reported on the corresponding Annual Statement.
§ 210.7-03
Balance sheets.
(a) The purpose of this rule is to indicate the various items which, if applicable, and except as otherwise permitted by the Commission, should appear on the face of the balance sheets and in the notes thereto filed for persons to whom this article pertains. (See § 210.4-01(a).)

# Assets
1.
Investments—other than investments in related parties.
(a)
Fixed maturities.
(b)
Equity securities.
(c)
Mortgage loans on real estate.
(d)
Investment real estate.
(e)
Policy loans.
(f)
Other long-term investments.
(g)
Short-term investments.
(h)
Total investments.

# Notes:
(1) State parenthetically or otherwise in the balance sheet (a) the basis of determining the amounts shown in the balance sheet and (b) as to fixed maturities and equity securities either aggregate cost or aggregate value at the balance sheet date, whichever is the alternate amount of the carrying value in the balance sheet. Consideration shall be given to the discussion of “Valuation of Securities” in § 404.03 of the Codification of Financial Reporting Policies.
(2) Include under fixed maturities: bonds, notes, marketable certificates of deposit with maturities beyond one year, and redeemable preferred stocks. Include under equity securities: common stocks and nonredeemable preferred stocks.
(3) State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto the amount of accumulated depreciation and amortization deducted from investment real estate. Subcaption (d) shall not include real estate acquired in settling title claims, mortgage guaranty claims, and similar insurance claims. Real estate acquired in settling claims shall be included in caption 10, “Other Assets,” or shown separately, if material.
(4) Include under subcaption (g) investments maturing within one year, such as commercial paper maturing within one year, marketable certificates of deposit maturing within one year, savings accounts, time deposits and other cash accounts and cash equivalents earning interest. State in a note any amounts subject to withdrawal or usage restrictions. (See § 210.5-02.1.)
(5) State separately in a note the amount of any class of investments included in subcaption (f) if such amount exceeds ten percent of stockholders' equity.
(6) State in a note the name of any person in which the total amount invested in the person and its affiliates, included in the above subcaptions, exceeds ten percent of total stockholders' equity. For this disclosure, include in the amount invested in a person and its affiliates the aggregate of indebtedness and stocks issued by such person and its affiliates that is included in the several subcaptions above, and the amount of any real estate included in subcaption (d) that was purchased or acquired from such person and its affiliates. Indicate the amount included in each subcaption. An investment in bonds and notes of the United States Government or of a United States Government agency or authority which exceeds ten percent of total stockholders' equity need not be reported.
(7) State in a note the amount of investments included under each subcaption (a), (c), (d) and (f) which have been non-income producing for the twelve months preceding the balance sheet date.
2.
Cash.
Cash on hand or on deposit that is restricted as to withdrawal or usage shall be disclosed separately on the balance sheet. The provisions of any restrictions shall be described in a note to the financial statements. Restrictions may include legally restricted deposits held as compensating balances against short-term borrowing arrangements, contracts entered into with others, or company statements of intention with regard to particular deposits. In cases where compensating balance arrangements exist but are not agreements which legally restrict the use of cash amounts shown on the balance sheet, describe in the notes to the financial statements these arrangements and the amount involved, if determinable, for the most recent audited balance sheet required. Compensating balances that are maintained under an agreement to assure future credit availability shall be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements along with the amount and terms of the agreement.
3.
Securities and indebtedness of related parties.
State separately (a) investments in related parties and (b) indebtedness from such related parties. (See § 210.4-08(k).)
4.
Accrued investment income.
5.
Accounts and notes receivable.
Include under this caption (a) amounts receivable from agents and insureds, (b) uncollected premiums and (c) other receivables. State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto any category of other receivable which is in excess of five percent of total assets. State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto the amount of allowance for doubtful accounts that was deducted.
6.
Reinsurance recoverable.
7.
Deferred policy acquisition costs.
8.
Property and equipment.
(a) State the basis of determining the amounts.
(b) State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto the amount of accumulated depreciation and amortization of property and equipment.
9.
Title plant.
10.
Other assets.
State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto any other asset the amount of which exceeds five percent of total assets.
11.
Separate account assets.
Include under this caption the portion of separate account-assets representing contract holder funds required to be reported in an insurance entity's financial statements as a summary total. An equivalent summary total for the related liability shall be included under caption 18.
12.
Total assets.

# Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
13.
Policy liabilities and accruals.
(a) State separately in the balance sheet the amounts of (1) future policy benefits and losses,
claims and loss expenses, (2) unearned premiums and (3) other policy claims and benefits payable.
(b) [Reserved]
14.
Other policyholders' funds.
(a) Include amounts of supplementary contracts without life contingencies, policyholders' dividend accumulations, undistributed earnings on participating business, dividends to policyholders and retrospective return premiums (not included elsewhere) and any similar items. State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto any item the amount of which is in excess of five percent of total liabilities.
(b) State in a note to the financial statements the relative significance of participating insurance expressed as percentages of (1) insurance in force and (2) premium income; and the method by which earnings and dividends allocable to such insurance is determined.
15.
Other liabilities.
(a) Include under this caption such items as accrued payrolls, accrued interest and taxes. State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto any item included in other liabilities the amount of which exceeds five percent of total liabilities.
(b) State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto the amount of (1) income taxes payable and (2) deferred income taxes. Disclose separately the amount of deferred income taxes applicable to unrealized appreciation of equity securities.
16.
Notes payable, bonds, mortgages and similar obligations, including capitalized leases.
(a) State separately in the balance sheet the amounts of (1) short-term debt and (2) long-term debt including capitalized leases.
(b) The disclosure required by § 210.5-02.19(b) shall be given if the aggregate of short-term borrowings from banks, factors and other financial institutions and commercial paper issued exceeds five percent of total liabilities.
(c) The disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.22 shall be followed for long-term debt.
17.
Indebtedness to related parties.
(See § 210.4-0.8(k).)
18.
Liabilities related to separate accounts.
[See caption 11.]
19.
Commitments and contingent liabilities.

# Redeemable Preferred Stocks
20.
Preferred stocks subject to mandatory redemption requirements or whose redemption is outside the control of the issuer.
The classification and disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.27 shall be followed.

# Nonredeemable Preferred Stocks
21.
Preferred stocks which are not redeemable or are redeemable solely at the option of the issuer.
The classification and disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.28 shall be followed.

# Common Stocks
22.
Common stocks.
The classification and disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.29 shall be followed.

# Other Stockholders' Equity
23.
Other stockholders' equity.
(a) Separate captions shall be shown for (1) additional paid-in capital, (2) other additional capital, (3) accumulated other comprehensive income, (4) retained earnings (i) appropriated and (ii) unappropriated. (See § 210.4-08(e).) Additional paid-in capital and other additional capital may be combined with the stock caption to which they apply, if appropriate.
(b) The classification and disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.30(b) shall be followed for dating and effect of a quasi-reorganization.
(c) State in a note the following information separately for (1) life insurance legal entities, and (2) property and liability insurance legal entities: The amount of statutory stockholders' equity as of the date of each balance sheet presented and the amount of statutory net income or loss for each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is presented.

# Noncontrolling Interests
24.
Noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries.
The disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.31 shall be followed.
25.
Total liabilities and equity.
(b) [Reserved]
[46 FR 54335, Nov. 2, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 74 FR 18615, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50203, Oct. 4, 2018; 90 FR 9687, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 210.7-04
Statements of comprehensive income.
The purpose of this section is to indicate the various items which, if applicable, should appear on the face of the statements of comprehensive income and in the notes thereto filed for persons to whom this article pertains. (See § 210.4-01(a).)

# Revenues
1.
Premiums.
Include premiums from reinsurance assumed and deduct premiums on reinsurance ceded. Where applicable, the amounts included in this caption should represent premiums earned.
2.
Net investment income.
State in a note to the financial statements, in tabular form, the amounts of (a) investment income from each category of investments listed in the subcaptions of § 210.7-03.1 that exceeds five percent of total investment income, (b) total
investment income, (c) applicable expenses, and (d) net investment income.
3.
Realized investment gains and losses.
Disclose the following amounts:
(a) Net realized investment gains and losses, which shall be shown separately regardless of size.
(b) Indicate in a footnote the registrant's policy with respect to whether investment income and realized gains and losses allocable to policyholders and separate accounts are included in the investment income and realized gain and loss amounts reported in the statement of comprehensive income. If the statement of comprehensive income includes investment income and realized gains and losses allocable to policyholders and separate accounts, indicate the amounts of such allocable investment income and realized gains and losses and the manner in which the insurance enterprise's obligation with respect to allocation of such investment income and realized gains and losses is otherwise accounted for in the financial statements.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) For each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is filed, include in a note an analysis of realized and unrealized investment gains and losses on fixed maturities and equity securities. For each period, state separately for fixed maturities [see § 210.7-03.1(a)] and for equity securities [see § 210.7-03.1(b)] the following amounts:
(1) Realized investment gains and losses, and
(2) The change during the period in the difference between value and cost.
The change in the difference between value and cost shall be given for both categories of investments even though they may be shown on the related balance sheet on a basis other than value.
4.
Other income.
Include all revenues not included in captions 1 and 2 above. State separately in the statement any amounts in excess of five percent of total revenue, and disclose the nature of the transactions from which the items arose.

# Benefits, Losses and Expenses
5.
Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses.
6.
Policyholders' share of earnings on participating policies, dividends and similar items.
(See § 210.7-03.14(b).)
7.
Underwriting, acquisition and insurance expenses.
State separately in the statement of comprehensive income or in a note thereto (a) the amount included in this caption representing deferred policy acquisition costs amortized to income during the period, and (b) the amount of other operating expenses. State separately in the statement of comprehensive income any material amount included in all other operating expenses.
8.
Income or loss before income tax expense and appropriate items below.
9.
Income tax expense.
Include under this caption only taxes based on income (See § 210.4-08(h).)
10.
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and 50% or less owned persons.
State, parenthetically or in a note, the amount of dividends received from such persons. If justified by the circumstances, this item may be presented in a different position and a different manner. (See § 210.4-01(a).)
11.
Income or loss from continuing operations.
12.
Discontinued operations.
13.-15. [Reserved]
16.
Net income or loss.
17.
Net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
18.
Net income attributable to the controlling interest.
19.
Other comprehensive income.
State separately the components of and the total for other comprehensive income. Present the components either net of related tax effects or before related tax effects with one amount shown for the aggregate income tax expense or benefit. State the amount of income tax expense or benefit allocated to each component, including reclassification adjustments, in the statement of comprehensive income or in a note.
20.
Comprehensive income.
21.
Comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
22.
Comprehensive income attributable to the controlling interest.
23.
Earnings per share data.
[46 FR 54335, Nov. 2, 1981, as amended at 57 FR 45293, Oct. 1, 1992; 74 FR 18615, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50203, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.7-05
What schedules are to be filed.
(a) Except as expressly provided otherwise in the applicable form:
(1) The schedule specified below in this section as Schedules I shall be as of the date of the most recent audited balance sheet for each person or group.
(2) The schedules specified in this section as Schedule IV and V shall be filed for each period for which an audited statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed for each person or group.
(3) Schedules II, III and V shall be filed as of the date and for periods specified in the schedule.
(b) When information is required in schedules for both the registrant and the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated it may be presented in the form of a single schedule:
Provided,
That items pertaining to the registrant are shown separately and that such single schedule affords a properly summarized presentation of the facts. If the information required by any schedule (including the notes thereto) may be shown in the related financial statement or in a note thereto without making such statement unclear or confusing, that procedure may be followed and the schedule omitted.
(c) The schedules shall be examined by the independent accountant.
Schedule I—Summary of investments—other than investments in related parties.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-15 shall be filed in support of caption 1 of the most recent audited balance sheet.
Schedule II—Condensed financial information of registrant.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-04 shall be filed when the restricted net assets (§ 210.1.02(dd)) of consolidated subsidiaries exceed 25 percent of consolidated net assets as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year.
Schedule III—Supplementary insurance information.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-16 shall be filed giving segment detail in support of various balance sheet and statement of comprehensive income captions. The required balance sheet information shall be presented as of the date of each audited balancesheet filed, and the statement of comprehensive income information shall be presented for each period for which an audited statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed, for each person or group.
Schedule IV—Reinsurance.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-17 shall be filed for reinsurance ceded and assumed.
Schedule V—Valuation and qualifying accounts.
The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-09 shall be filed in support of valuation and qualifying accounts included in the balance sheet (see § 210.4-02).
Schedule VI—Supplemental Information Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance Operations.
The information required by § 210.12-18 shall be presented as of the same dates and for the same periods for which the information is reflected in the audited consolidated financial statements required by §§ 210.3-01 and 3-02. The schedule may be omitted if reserves for unpaid property-casualty claims and claim adjustment expenses of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries, its unconsolidated subsidiaries and its 50%-or-less-owned equity basis investees did not in the aggregate, exceed one-half of common stockholders' equity of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the beginning of the fiscal year. For purposes of this test, only the proportionate share of the registrant and its other subsidiaries in the reserves for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses of 50%-or-less-owned equity investees taken in the aggregate after intercompany eliminations shall be taken into account. Article 12—Form and Content of Schedules (17 CFR 210)
[46 FR 54335, Nov. 2, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 29837, July 9, 1982; 49 FR 47598, Dec. 6, 1984; 59 FR 65637, Dec. 20, 1994; 74 FR 18615, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50203, Oct. 4, 2018]

# Article 8 Financial Statements of Smaller Reporting Companies

# Source:
73 FR 953, Jan. 4, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 210.8-01
General requirements for Article 8.
Sections 210.8-01 through 210.8-08 (Article 8) shall be applicable to financial statements filed for smaller reporting companies. These sections are not applicable to financial statements prepared for the purposes of Item 17 or Item 18 of Form 20-F.
(a) Financial statements of a smaller reporting company, as defined by § 229.10(f)(1) of this chapter, its predecessors or any businesses to which the smaller reporting company is a successor shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
(b) Smaller reporting companies electing to prepare their financial statements with the form and content required in Article 8 need not apply the other form and content requirements in Regulation S-X with the exception of the following:
(1) The report and qualifications of the independent accountant shall comply with the requirements of §§ 210.2-01 through 210.2-07 (Article 2); and
(2) The description of accounting policies shall comply with § 210.4-08(n); and
(3) Smaller reporting companies engaged in oil and gas producing activities shall follow the financial accounting and reporting standards specified in § 210.4-10 with respect to such activities.
(c) The requirements of § 210.3-10 are applicable to financial statements for a subsidiary of a smaller reporting company that issues securities guaranteed by the smaller reporting company or guarantees securities issued by the
smaller reporting company. Disclosures about guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities registered or being registered must be presented as required by § 210.13-01.
(d) The requirements of § 210.3-16 or § 210.13-02 are applicable if a smaller reporting company's securities registered or being registered are collateralized by the securities of the smaller reporting company's affiliates. Section 210.13-02 must be followed unless § 210.3-16 applies. The periods presented for purposes of compliance with § 210.3-16 are those required by § 210.8-02.
(e) The Commission, where consistent with the protection of investors, may permit the omission of one or more of the financial statements or the substitution of appropriate statements of comparable character. The Commission by informal written notice may require the filing of other financial statements where necessary or appropriate.
(f) Section 210.3-06 applies to the preparation of financial statements of smaller reporting companies.
[85 FR 54065, Aug. 31, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 53672, Aug. 31, 2020]

# Editorial Note:
At 85 FR 22000, Apr.20, 2020, § 210.8-01 was amended; however, the amendment could not be incorporated due because the section was revised at 85 FR 54065, Aug. 31, 2020. Therefore removing notes 3 and 4 which this amendment intended to revise could not be done

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 21912, Mar. 28, 2024 § 210.8-01 was amended, effective May 28, 2024. At 89 FR 25804, Apr. 12, 2024, the effective date was delayed indefinitely.
§ 210.8-02
Annual financial statements.
Smaller reporting companies must file an audited balance sheet for the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated and for its predecessors as of the end of each of the most recent two fiscal years, or as of a date within 135 days if the issuer has existed for a period of less than one fiscal year, and audited statements of comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in stockholders' equity for each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent audited balance sheet (or such shorter period as the registrant has been in business).
[89 FR 14314, Feb. 26, 2024]
§ 210.8-03
Interim financial statements.
Interim financial statements may be unaudited; however, before filing, interim financial statements included in quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308(a) of this chapter) must be reviewed by an independent public accountant using applicable professional standards and procedures for conducting such reviews, as may be modified or supplemented by the Commission. If, in any filing, the issuer states that interim financial statements have been reviewed by an independent public accountant, a report of the accountant on the review must be filed with the interim financial statements. Interim financial statements shall include a balance sheet as of the end of the issuer's most recent fiscal quarter, a balance sheet as of the end of the preceding fiscal year, and statements of comprehensive income and statements of cash flows for the interim period up to the date of such balance sheet and the comparable period of the preceding fiscal year.
(a)
Condensed format.
Interim financial statements may be condensed as follows:
(1) Balance sheets should include separate captions for each balance sheet component presented in the annual financial statements that represents 10% or more of total assets. Cash and retained earnings should be presented regardless of relative significance to total assets. Registrants that present a classified balance sheet in their annual financial statements should present totals for current assets and current liabilities.
(2) Statements of comprehensive income (or the statement of net income if comprehensive income is presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements) should include net sales or gross revenue, each cost and expense category presented in the annual financial statements that exceeds 20% of sales or gross revenues, provision for income taxes, and discontinued operations. (Financial institutions should substitute net interest income for sales for purposes of determining items to be disclosed.)
(3) Cash flow statements should include cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities as well as cash at the beginning and end of each period and the increase or decrease in such balance.
(4) Additional line items may be presented to facilitate the usefulness of the interim financial statements, including their comparability with annual financial statements.
(5) Provide the information required by § 210.3-04 for the current and comparative year-to-date periods, with subtotals for each interim period.
(b)
Disclosure required and additional instructions as to content
—(1)
Footnotes.
Footnote and other disclosures should be provided as needed for fair presentation and to ensure that the financial statements are not misleading.
(2) [Reserved]
(3)
Significant equity investees.
Sales, gross profit, net income (loss) from continuing operations, net income, and net income attributable to the investee must be disclosed for equity investees that constitute 20 percent or more of a registrant's consolidated assets, equity or income from continuing operations attributable to the registrant.
(4) [Reserved]
(5)
Material accounting changes.
The registrant's independent accountant must provide a letter in the first Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter) filed after the change indicating whether or not the change is to a preferable method. Disclosure must be provided of any retroactive change to prior period financial statements, including the effect of any such change on income and income per share.
(6)
Financial statements of and disclosures about guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities.
The requirements of § 210.3-10 are applicable to financial statements for a subsidiary of a smaller reporting company that issues securities guaranteed by the smaller reporting company or guarantees securities issued by the smaller reporting company. Disclosures about guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities registered or being registered must be presented as required by § 210.13-01.
(7)
Disclosures about affiliates whose securities collateralize an issuance.
Disclosures about a smaller reporting company's affiliates whose securities collateralize any class of securities registered or being registered and the related collateral arrangement must be presented as required by § 210.13-02.
Instruction 1 to § 210.8-03.
Where §§ 210.8-01 through 210.8-08 (Article 8 of this part) are applicable to a Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter) and the interim period is more than one quarter, statements of comprehensive income must also be provided for the most recent interim quarter and the comparable quarter of the preceding fiscal year.
[73 FR 953, Jan. 4, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 18615, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50204, Oct. 4, 2018; 85 FR 54065, Aug. 31, 2020; 85 FR 22000, Apr. 20, 2020]
§ 210.8-04
Financial statements of businesses acquired or to be acquired.
Apply § 210.3-05 substituting §§ 210.8-02 and 210.8-03, as applicable, wherever § 210.3-05 references §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02.
[85 FR 54065, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.8-05
Pro forma financial information.
(a) Pro forma financial information must be disclosed when any of the conditions in § 210.11-01 exist.
(b) The preparation, presentation, and disclosure of pro forma financial information must comply with §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-03 (Article 11), except that the pro forma financial information may be condensed pursuant to § 210.8-03(a).
[85 FR 54066, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.8-06
Real estate operations acquired or to be acquired.
Apply § 210.3-14 substituting §§ 210.8-02 and 210.8-03, as applicable, wherever § 210.3-14 references §§ 210.3-01 and 210.3-02.
[85 FR 54066, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.8-07
Limited partnerships.
(a) Smaller reporting companies that are limited partnerships must provide the balance sheets of the general partners as described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b) Where a general partner is a corporation, the audited balance sheet of the corporation as of the end of its
most recently completed fiscal year must be filed. Receivables, other than trade receivables, from affiliates of the general partner should be deducted from shareholders' equity of the general partner. Where an affiliate has committed itself to increase or maintain the general partner's capital, the audited balance sheet of such affiliate must also be presented.
(c) Where a general partner is a partnership, there shall be filed an audited balance sheet of such partnership as of the end of its most recently completed fiscal year.
(d) Where the general partner is a natural person, there shall be filed, as supplemental information, a balance sheet of such natural person as of a recent date. Such balance sheet need not be audited. The assets and liabilities should be carried at estimated fair market value, with provisions for estimated income taxes on unrealized gains. The net worth of such general partner(s), based on such balance sheet(s), singly or in the aggregate, shall be disclosed in the registration statement.
§ 210.8-08
Age of financial statements.
At the date of filing, financial statements included in filings other than filings on Form 10-K must be not less current than the financial statements that would be required in Forms 10-K and 10-Q if such reports were required to be filed. If required financial statements are as of a date 135 days or more before the date a registration statement becomes effective or proxy material is expected to be mailed, the financial statements shall be updated to include financial statements for an interim period ending within 135 days of the effective or expected mailing date. Interim financial statements must be prepared and presented in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(a) When the anticipated effective or mailing date falls within 45 days after the end of the fiscal year, the filing may include financial statements only as current as of the end of the third fiscal quarter;
Provided, however,
that if the audited financial statements for the recently completed fiscal year are available or become available before effectiveness or mailing, they must be included in the filing; and
(b) If the effective date or anticipated mailing date falls after 45 days but within 90 days of the end of the smaller reporting company's fiscal year, the smaller reporting company is not required to provide the audited financial statements for such year end provided that the following conditions are met:
(1) If the smaller reporting company is a reporting company, all reports due must have been filed;
(2) For the most recent fiscal year for which audited financial statements are not yet available, the smaller reporting company reasonably and in good faith expects to report income from continuing operations attributable to the registrant before taxes; and
(3) For at least one of the two fiscal years immediately preceding the most recent fiscal year the smaller reporting company reported income from continuing operations attributable to the registrant before taxes.
[73 FR 953, Jan. 4, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 18616, Apr. 23, 2009]

# Bank Holding Companies

# Source:
Sections 210.9-01 through 210.9-07 appear at 48 FR 11107, Mar. 16, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 210.9-01
Application of §§ 210.9-01 to 210.9-07.
The consolidated financial statements filed for bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, and the financial statements of banks and savings and loan associations, must apply the guidance in this article in filings with the Commission.
[85 FR 66140, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 210.9-02
General requirement.
The requirements of the general rules in §§ 210.1 to 210.4 (Articles 1, 2, 3, 3A and 4) should be complied with where applicable.
§ 210.9-03
Balance sheets.
The purpose of this rule is to indicate the various items which, if applicable, should appear on the face of the balance sheets or in the notes thereto.

# Assets
1.
Cash and due from banks.
The amounts in this caption should include all noninterest bearing deposits with other banks.
(a) Any withdrawal and usage restrictions (including requirements of the Federal Reserve to maintain certain average reserve balances) or compensating balance requirements should be disclosed (see § 210.5-02-1).
2. Interest-bearing deposits in other banks.
3.
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements.
4.
Trading account assets.
Include securities or any other investments held for trading purposes only.
5. Other short-term investments.
6.
Investment securities.
Include securities held for investment only. Disclose the aggregate book value of investment securities; show on the balance sheet the aggregate market value at the balance sheet date. The aggregate amounts should include securities pledged, loaned or sold under repurchase agreements and similar arrangements; borrowed securities and securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements should be excluded.
7.
Loans.
Disclose separately (1) total loans, (2) the related allowance for losses and (3) unearned income.
(a)-(d) [Reserved]
(e)(1)(i) As of each balance sheet date, disclose in a note the aggregate dollar amount of loans (exclusive of loans to any such persons which in the aggregate do not exceed $60,000 during the latest year) made by the registrant or any of its subsidiaries to directors, executive officers, or principal holders of equity securities (§ 210.1-02) of the registrant or any of its significant subsidiaries (§ 210.1-02), or to any associate of such persons. For the latest fiscal year, an analysis of activity with respect to such aggregate loans to related parties should be provided. The analysis should include the aggregate amount at the beginning of the period, new loans, repayments, and other changes. (Other changes, if significant, should be explained.)
(ii) This disclosure need not be furnished when the aggregate amount of such loans at the balance sheet date (or with respect to the latest fiscal year, the maximum amount outstanding during the period) does not exceed 5 percent of stockholders equity at the balance sheet date.
(2) If a significant portion of the aggregate amount of loans outstanding at the end of the fiscal year disclosed pursuant to (e)(1)(i) above relates to loans that are disclosed as past due, nonaccrual or troubled debt restructurings in the consolidated financial statements, so state and disclose the aggregate amounts of such loans along with such other information necessary to an understanding of the effects of the transactions on the financial statements.
(3) Notwithstanding the aggregate disclosure called for by paragraph (e)(1) of this section, if any loans were not made in the ordinary course of business during any period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed, provide an appropriate description of each such loan.
(4) Definition of terms. For purposes of this rule, the following definitions shall apply:
Associate
means (i) a corporation, venture or organization of which such person is a general partner or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 10 percent or more of any class of equity securities; (ii) any trust or other estate in which such person has a substantial beneficial interest or for which such person serves as trustee or in a similar capacity and (iii) any member of the immediate family of any of the foregoing persons.
Executive officers
means the president, any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as loans, investments, operations, administration or finance), and any other officer or person who performs similar policymaking functions.
Immediate Family
means such person's spouse; parents; children; siblings; mothers and fathers-in-law; sons and daughters-in-law; and brothers and sisters-in-law.
Ordinary course of business
means those loans which were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rate and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with unrelated persons and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectibility or present other unfavorable features.
8.
Premises and equipment.
9.
Due from customers on acceptances.
Include amounts receivable from customers on unmatured drafts and bills of exchange that have been accepted by a bank subsidiary or by other banks for the account of a subsidiary and that are outstanding—that is, not held by a subsidiary bank, on the reporting date. (If held by a bank subsidiary, they should be reported as “loans” under § 210.9-03.7.)
10.
Other assets.
Disclose separately on the balance sheet or in a note thereto any of the following assets or any other asset the amount of which exceeds thirty percent of stockholders equity. The remaining assets may be shown as one amount.
(1) Goodwill.
(2) Other intangible assets (net of amortization).
(3) Investments in and indebtedness of affiliates and other persons.
(4) Other real estate.
(a) Disclose in a note the basis at which other real estate is carried. A reduction to fair market value from the carrying value of the related loan at the time of acquisition
shall be accounted for as a loan loss. Any allowance for losses on other real estate which has been established subsequent to acquisition should be deducted from other real estate. For each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required, disclosures should be made in a note as to the changes in the allowances, including balance at beginning and end of period, provision charged to income, and losses charged to the allowance.
11. Total assets.

# Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity

# Liabilities
12.
Deposits.
Disclose separately the amounts of noninterest bearing deposits and interest bearing deposits.
(a) The amount of noninterest bearing deposits and interest bearing deposits in foreign banking offices must be presented if the disclosure provided by § 210.9-05 is required.
13.
Short-term borrowing.
Disclosure separately on the balance sheet or in a note, amounts payable for (1) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase; (2) commercial paper, and (3) other short-term borrowings.
(a) Disclose any unused lines of credit for short-term financing: (§ 210.5-02.19(b)).
14.
Bank acceptances outstanding.
Disclose the aggregate of unmatured drafts and bills of exchange accepted by a bank subsidiary, or by some other bank as its agent, less the amount of such acceptances acquired by the bank subsidiary through discount or purchase.
15.
Other liabilities.
Disclose separately on the balance sheet or in a note any of the following liabilities or any other items which are individually in excess of thirty percent of stockholders' equity (except that amounts in excess of 5 percent of stockholders' equity should be disclosed with respect to item (4)). The remaining items may be shown as one amount.
(1) Income taxes payable.
(2) Deferred income taxes.
(3) Indebtedness to affiliates and other persons the investments in which are accounted for by the equity method.
(4) Indebtedness to directors, executive officers, and principal holders of equity securities of the registrant or any of its significant subsidiaries (the guidance in § 210.9-03.7(e) shall be used to identify related parties for purposes of this disclosure).
(5) Accounts payable and accrued expenses.
16.
Long-term debt.
Disclose in a note the information required by § 210.5-02.22.
17.
Commitments and contingent liabilities.

# Redeemable Preferred Stocks
18.
Preferred stocks subject to mandatory redemption requirements or whose redemption is outside the control of the issuer.
See § 210.5-02.27.

# Non-redeemable Preferred Stocks
19.
Preferred stocks which are not redeemable or are redeemable solely at the option of the issuer.
See § 210.5-02.28.

# Common Stocks
20.
Common stocks.
See § 210.5-02.29.

# Other Stockholders' Equity
21.
Other stockholders' equity.
See § 210.5-02.30.

# Noncontrolling Interests
22.
Noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries.
The disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.31 shall be followed.
23.
Total liabilities and equity.
[48 FR 11107, Mar. 16, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 37612, Aug. 19, 1983; 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 74 FR 18616, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50205, Oct. 4, 2018; 85 FR 66140, Oct. 16, 2020; 90 FR 9687, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 210.9-04
Statements of comprehensive income.
The purpose of this section is to indicate the various items which, if applicable, should appear on the face of the statement of comprehensive income or in the notes thereto.
1.
Interest and fees on loans.
Include commitment and origination fees, late charges and current amortization of premium and accretion of discount on loans which are related to or are an adjustment of the loan interest rate.
2.
Interest and dividends on investment securities.
Disclosure separately (1) taxable interest income, (2) nontaxable interest income, and (3) dividends.
3.
Trading account interest.
4.
Other interest income.
5.
Total interest income (total of lines 1 through 4).
6.
Interest on deposits.
7.
Interest on short-term borrowings.
8.
Interest on long-term debt.
9.
Total interest expense (total of lines 6 through 8).
10.
Net interest income (line 5 minus line 9).
11.
Provision for loan losses.
12.
Net interest income after provision for loan losses.
13.
Other income.
Disclose separately any of the following amounts, or any other item of other income, which exceed one percent of the aggregate of total interest income and other income. The remaining amounts may be shown as one amount, except for investment securities gains or losses which shall be shown separately regardless of size.
(a) Commissions and fees and fiduciary activities.
(b) Commissions, broker's fees and markups on securities underwriting and other securities activities.
(c) Insurance commissions, fees and premiums.
(d) Fees for other customer services.
(e) Profit or loss on transactions in securities in dealer trading account.
(f) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and 50 percent or less owned persons.
(g) Gains or losses on disposition of equity in securities of subsidiaries or 50 percent or less owned persons.
(h) Investment securities gains or losses. Related income taxes shall be disclosed.
14.
Other expenses.
Disclose separately any of the following amounts, or any other item of other expense, which exceed one percent of the aggregate of total interest income and other income. The remaining amounts may be shown as one amount.
(a) Salaries and employee benefits.
(b) Net occupancy expense of premises.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Net cost of operation of other real estate (including provisions for real estate losses, rental income and gains and losses on sales of real estate).
15.
Income or loss before income tax expense.
16.
Income tax expense.
The information required by § 210.4-08(h) should be disclosed.
17.-19. [Reserved]
20.
Net income or loss.
21.
Net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
22.
Net income attributable to the controlling interest.
23.
Other comprehensive income.
State separately the components of and the total for other comprehensive income. Present the components either net of related tax effects or before related tax effects with one amount shown for the aggregate income tax expense or benefit. State the amount of income tax expense or benefit allocated to each component, including reclassification adjustments, in the statement of comprehensive income or in a note.
24.
Comprehensive income.
25.
Comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
26.
Comprehensive income attributable to the controlling interest.
27.
Earnings per share data.
[48 FR 11107, Mar. 16, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 74 FR 18616, Apr. 23, 2009; 83 FR 50205, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.9-05
Foreign activities.
(a)
General requirement.
Separate disclosure concerning foreign activities shall be made for each period in which either (1) assets, or (2) revenue, or (3) income (loss) before income tax expense, or (4) net income (loss), each as associated with foreign activities, exceeded ten percent of the corresponding amount in the related financial statements.
(b)
Disclosures.
(1) Disclose total identifiable assets (net of valuation allowances) associated with foreign activities.
(2) For each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is filed, state the amount of revenue, income (loss) before taxes, and net income (loss) associated with foreign activities. Disclose significant estimates and assumptions (including those related to the cost of capital) used in allocating revenue and expenses to foreign activities; describe the nature and effects of any changes in such estimates and assumptions which have a significant impact on interperiod comparability.
(3) The information in paragraph (b) (1) and (2) of this section shall be presented separately for each significant geographic area and in the aggregate for all other geographic areas not deemed significant.
(c)
Definitions.
(1)
Foreign activities
include loans and other revenues producing assets and transactions in which the debtor or customer, whether an affiliated or unaffiliated person, is domiciled outside the United States.
(2) The term
revenue
includes the total of the amount reported at §§ 210.9-04.5 and 210.9-04.13.
(3) A
significant geographic area
is one in which assets or revenue or income before income tax or net income exceed 10 percent of the comparable amount as reported in the financial statements.
[48 FR 11107, Mar. 16, 1983, as amended at 83 FR 50205, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.9-06
Condensed financial information of registrant.
The information prescribed by § 210.12-04 shall be presented in a note to the financial statements when the restricted net assets (§ 210.1-02(dd)) of consolidated subsidiaries exceed 25 percent of consolidated net assets as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year. The investment in and indebtedness of and to bank subsidiaries shall be stated separately in the condensed balance sheet from amounts for
other subsidiaries; the amount of cash dividends paid to the registrant for each of the last three years by bank subsidiaries shall be stated separately in the condensed statement of comprehensive income from amounts for other subsidiaries.
[83 FR 50205, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.9-07
[Reserved]

# Interim Financial Statements
§ 210.10-01
Interim financial statements.
(a)
Condensed statements.
Interim financial statements shall follow the general form and content of presentation prescribed by the other sections of this Regulation with the following exceptions:
(1) Interim financial statements required by this section need only be provided as to the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated and its predecessors and may be unaudited. Separate statements of other entities which may otherwise be required by this part may be omitted.
(2) Interim balance sheets shall include only major captions (
i.e.
, numbered captions) prescribed by the applicable sections of this Regulation with the exception of inventories. Data as to raw materials, work in process and finished goods inventories shall be included either on the face of the balance sheet or in the notes to the financial statements, if applicable. Where any major balance sheet caption is less than 10% of total assets, and the amount in the caption has not increased or decreased by more than 25% since the end of the preceding fiscal year, the caption may be combined with others.
(3) Interim statements of comprehensive income shall also include major captions prescribed by the applicable sections of part 210 of this chapter (Regulation S-X). When any major statement of comprehensive income (or statement of net income if comprehensive income is presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements) caption is less than 15% of average net income for the most recent three fiscal years and the amount in the caption has not increased or decreased by more than 20% as compared to the corresponding interim period of the preceding fiscal year, the caption may be combined with others. In calculating average net income, loss years should be excluded. If losses were incurred in each of the most recent three years, the average loss shall be used for purposes of this test. Notwithstanding these tests, § 210.4-02 applies and de minimis amounts therefore need not be shown separately, except that registrants reporting under § 210.9 shall show investment securities gains or losses separately regardless of size.
(4) The statement of cash flows may be abbreviated starting with a single figure of net cash flows from operating activities and showing cash changes from investing and financing activities individually only when they exceed 10% of the average of net cash flows from operating activities for the most recent three years. Notwithstanding this test, § 210.4-02 applies and
de minimis
amounts therefore need not be shown separately.
(5) The interim financial information shall include disclosures either on the face of the financial statements or in accompanying footnotes sufficient so as to make the interim information presented not misleading. Registrants may presume that users of the interim financial information have read or have access to the audited financial statements for the preceding fiscal year and that the adequacy of additional disclosure needed for a fair presentation may be determined in that context. Accordingly, footnote disclosure which would substantially duplicate the disclosure contained in the most recent annual report to security holders or latest audited financial statements, such as a statement of significant accounting policies and practices, details of accounts which have not changed significantly in amount or composition since the end of the most recently completed fiscal year, and detailed disclosures prescribed by § 210.4-08 may be omitted.
(6) Detailed schedules otherwise required by this Regulation may be omitted for purposes of preparing interim financial statements.
(7) Provide the information required by § 210.3-04 for the current and comparative year-to-date periods, with subtotals for each interim period.
(b)
Other instructions as to content.
The following additional instructions shall be applicable for purposes of preparing interim financial statements:
(1) Summarized statement of comprehensive income information shall be given separately as to each subsidiary not consolidated or 50 percent or less owned persons or as to each group of such subsidiaries or fifty percent or less owned persons for which separate individual or group statements would otherwise be required for annual periods. Such summarized information, however, need not be furnished for any such unconsolidated subsidiary or person which would not be required pursuant to § 240.13a-13 or § 240.15d-13 of this chapter to file quarterly financial information with the Commission if it were a registrant.
(2) The basis of the earnings per share computation shall be stated together with the number of shares used in the computation.
(3) If, during the most recent interim period presented, the registrant or any of its consolidated subsidiaries entered into a combination between entities under common control, supplemental disclosure of the separate results of the combined entities for periods prior to the combination shall be given, with appropriate explanations.
(4)-(5) [Reserved]
(6) For filings on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308(a) of this chapter), a letter from the registrant's independent accountant shall be filed as an exhibit (in accordance with the provisions of 17 CFR 229.601 (Item 601 of Regulation S-K)) in the first Form 10-Q after the date of an accounting change indicating whether or not the change is to an alternative principle which, in the accountant's judgment, is preferable under the circumstances; except that no letter from the accountant need be filed when the change is made in response to a standard adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board that requires such change.
(7) Any material retroactive prior period adjustment made during any period covered by the interim financial statements shall be disclosed, together with the effect thereof upon net income—total and per share—of any prior period included and upon the balance of retained earnings. If results of operations for any period presented have been adjusted retroactively by such an item subsequent to the initial reporting of such period, similar disclosure of the effect of the change shall be made.
(8) Any unaudited interim financial statements furnished shall reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. A statement to that effect shall be included. If all such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature, a statement to that effect shall be made; otherwise, there shall be furnished information describing in appropriate detail the nature and amount of any adjustments other than normal recurring adjustments entering into the determination of the results shown.
(9) The requirements of § 210.3-10 are applicable to financial statements for a subsidiary of the registrant that issues securities guaranteed by the registrant or guarantees securities issued by the registrant. Disclosures about guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities registered or being registered must be presented as required by § 210.13-01.
(10) Disclosures about a registrant's affiliates whose securities collateralize any class of securities registered or being registered and the related collateral arrangement must be presented as required by § 210.13-02.
(c)
Periods to be covered.
The periods for which interim financial statements are to be provided in registration statements are prescribed elsewhere in this Regulation (see §§ 210.3-01 and 3-02). For filings on Form 10-Q, financial statements shall be provided as set forth in this paragraph (c):
(1) An interim balance sheet as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter and a balance sheet as of the end of the preceding fiscal year shall be provided. The balance sheet as of the end of the preceding fiscal year may be condensed
to the same degree as the interim balance sheet provided. An interim balance sheet as of the end of the corresponding fiscal quarter of the preceding fiscal year need not be provided unless necessary for an understanding of the impact of seasonal fluctuations on the registrant's financial condition.
(2) Interim statements of comprehensive income shall be provided for the most recent fiscal quarter, for the period between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the end of the most recent fiscal quarter, and for the corresponding periods of the preceding fiscal year. Such statements may also be presented for the cumulative twelve month period ended during the most recent fiscal quarter and for the corresponding preceding period.
(3) Interim statements of cash flows shall be provided for the period between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the end of the most recent fiscal quarter, and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year. Such statements may also be presented for the cumulative twelve month period ended during the most recent fiscal quarter and for the corresponding preceding period.
(4) Registrants engaged in seasonal production and sale of a single-crop agricultural commodity may provide interim statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for the twelve month period ended during the most recent fiscal quarter and for the corresponding preceding period in lieu of the year-to-date statements specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.
(d)
Interim review by independent public accountant.
Prior to filing, interim financial statements included in quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (17 CFR 249.308(a)) must be reviewed by an independent public accountant using applicable professional standards and procedures for conducting such reviews, as may be modified or supplemented by the Commission. If, in any filing, the company states that interim financial statements have been reviewed by an independent public accountant, a report of the accountant on the review must be filed with the interim financial statements.
(e)
Filing of other interim financial information in certain cases.
The Commission may, upon the informal written request of the registrant, and where consistent with the protection of investors, permit the omission of any of the interim financial information herein required or the filing in substitution thereof of appropriate information of comparable character. The Commission may also by informal written notice require the filing of other information in addition to, or in substitution for, the interim information herein required in any case where such information is necessary or appropriate for an adequate presentation of the financial condition of any person for which interim financial information is required, or whose financial information is otherwise necessary for the protection of investors.
[46 FR 12489, Feb. 17, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 25215, June 18, 1985; 50 FR 49533, Dec. 3, 1985; 57 FR 45293, Oct. 1, 1992; 64 FR 73401, Dec. 30, 1999; 73 FR 956, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 18616, Apr. 23, 2009; 76 FR 50120, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50205, Oct. 4, 2018; 85 FR 22000, Apr. 20, 2020; 89 FR 14314, Feb. 26, 2024]

# Pro Forma Financial Information

# Source:
Sections 210.11-01 through 210.11-03 appear at 47 FR 29837, July 9, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 210.11-01
Presentation requirements.
(a) Pro forma financial information must be filed when any of the following conditions exist:
(1) During the most recent fiscal year or subsequent interim period for which a balance sheet is required by § 210.3-01, a significant business acquisition has occurred (for purposes of this section, this encompasses the acquisition of an interest in a business accounted for by the equity method);
(2) After the date of the most recent balance sheet filed pursuant to § 210.3-01, consummation of a significant business acquisition or a combination of entities under common control has occurred or is probable;
(3) Securities being registered by the registrant are to be offered to the security holders of a significant business to be acquired or the proceeds from the
offered securities will be applied directly or indirectly to the purchase of a specific significant business;
(4) The disposition of a significant portion of a business either by sale, abandonment or distribution to shareholders by means of a spin-off, split-up or split-off has occurred or is probable and such disposition is not fully reflected in the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing;
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Pro forma financial information required by § 229.914 of this chapter is required to be provided in connection with a roll-up transaction as defined in § 229.901(c) of this chapter;
(7) The registrant previously was a part of another entity and such presentation is necessary to reflect operations and financial position of the registrant as an autonomous entity; or
(8) Consummation of other transactions has occurred or is probable for which disclosure of pro forma financial information would be material to investors.
(b) A business acquisition or disposition will be considered significant if:
(1) The business acquisition meets:
(i) The definition of a significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w)(1), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein; or
(ii) If the business is a real estate operation as defined in § 210.3-14(a)(2), the significant subsidiary condition in § 210.1-02(w)(1)(i) (
i.e.,
the investment test condition), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent, as modified by the guidance in § 210.3-14(b)(2)(ii).
(2) The business disposition, including a business that is a real estate operation as defined in § 210.3-14(a)(2), meets the definition of a significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w)(1), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein.
(3) The determination must be made, except as noted in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for the continuous offerings described therein, by using:
(i) For amounts derived from financial statements, the registrant's most recent annual consolidated financial statements required to be filed at or prior to the date of acquisition or disposition and the business's pre-acquisition or pre-disposition financial statements for the same fiscal year as the registrant or, if the fiscal years differ, the business's most recent fiscal year that would be required if the business had the same filer status as the registrant, however the determination may be made using:
(A) The financial statements for the business described in § 210.3-05(e) or (f) if the business meets the conditions for presenting those financial statements.
(B) Pro forma amounts for the registrant for the periods specified in § 210.11-01(b)(3) that only depict significant business acquisitions and dispositions consummated after the latest fiscal year-end for which the registrant's financial statements are required to be filed and only include Transaction Accounting Adjustments (
see
§ 210.11-02(a)(6)(i)), provided that:
(
1
) The registrant has filed audited financial statements for any such acquired business for the periods required by § 210.3-05 or § 210.3-14 and the pro forma financial information required by §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-02 for any such acquired or disposed business. The tests may not be made by “annualizing” data; and
(
2
) If a registrant has used pro forma amounts to determine significance of an acquisition or disposition, it must continue to use pro forma amounts to determine significance of acquisitions and dispositions through the filing date of its next annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) or Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter); or
(C) The registrant's annual consolidated financial statements, for the most recent fiscal year ended prior to the acquisition or disposition, that are included in the registrant's Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) filed after the date of acquisition or disposition, but before the date financial statements and pro forma financial information for the acquisition or disposition would be required to be filed on Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter).
(ii) If the business is a related business (
see
§ 210.3-05(a)(3)), combined pre-acquisition financial statements of the group of related businesses for the fiscal year specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(4) When a registrant, including a real estate investment trust, conducts
a continuous offering over an extended period of time and applies the Item 20.D. Undertakings of Industry Guide 5, the income test condition does not apply, and the determination must be made for the investment test condition, when it is based on the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated, and the asset test condition, if applicable, using the following for the registrant:
(i) During the distribution period, total assets as of the date of acquisition or disposition plus the proceeds (net of commissions) in good faith expected to be raised in the registered offering over the next 12 months, except that for acquisitions total assets must exclude the acquired business; and
(ii) After the distribution period ends and until the next Form 10-K is filed, total assets as of the date of acquisition or disposition, except that for acquisitions total assets must exclude the acquired business; and
(iii) After that next Form 10-K is filed, the guidance in paragraph (b)(3).
(c) The pro forma effects of a business acquisition need not be presented pursuant to this section if separate financial statements of the acquired business are not included in the filing, except where the aggregate impact of businesses acquired or to be acquired is significant as determined by § 210.3-05(b)(2)(iv) or § 210.3-14(b)(2)(i)(C).
(d) For purposes of this rule, the term business should be evaluated in light of the facts and circumstances involved and whether there is sufficient continuity of the acquired entity's operations prior to and after the transactions so that disclosure of prior financial information is material to an understanding of future operations. A presumption exists that a separate entity, a subsidiary, or a division is a business. However, a lesser component of an entity may also constitute a business. Among the facts and circumstances which should be considered in evaluating whether an acquisition of a lesser component of an entity constitutes a business are the following:
(1) Whether the nature of the revenue-producing activity of the component will remain generally the same as before the transaction; or
(2) Whether any of the following attributes remain with the component after the transaction:
(i) Physical facilities,
(ii) Employee base,
(iii) Market distribution system,
(iv) Sales force,
(v) Customer base,
(vi) Operating rights,
(vii) Production techniques, or
(viii) Trade names.
(e) This rule does not apply to transactions between a parent company and its totally held subsidiary.
[47 FR 29837, July 9, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 49533, Dec. 3, 1985; 56 FR 57247, Nov. 8, 1991; 61 FR 54514, Oct. 18, 1996; 74 FR 18616, Apr. 23, 2009; 85 FR 54066, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.11-02
Preparation requirements.
(a)
Form and content.
(1) Pro forma financial information must consist of a pro forma condensed balance sheet, pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income, and accompanying explanatory notes. In certain circumstances (
i.e.,
where a limited number of pro forma adjustments are required and those adjustments are easily understood), a narrative description of the pro forma effects of the transaction may be disclosed in lieu of the statements described in this paragraph (a)(1).
(2) The pro forma financial information must be accompanied by an introductory paragraph which briefly sets forth a description of:
(i) Each transaction for which pro forma effect is being given;
(ii) The entities involved;
(iii) The periods for which the pro forma financial information is presented; and
(iv) An explanation of what the pro forma presentation shows.
(3) The pro forma condensed financial information need only include major captions (
i.e.,
the numbered captions) prescribed by the applicable sections of Regulation S-X. Where any major balance sheet caption is less than 10 percent of total assets, the caption may be combined with others. When any major statement of comprehensive income caption is less than 15 percent of average net income attributable to the registrant for the most recent three fiscal years, the caption may be combined
with others. In calculating average net income attributable to the registrant, loss years should be excluded unless losses were incurred in each of the most recent three years, in which case the average loss must be used for purposes of this test. Notwithstanding these tests,
de minimis
amounts need not be shown separately.
(4) Pro forma statements will ordinarily be in columnar form showing condensed historical statements, pro forma adjustments, and the pro forma results.
(5) The pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income must disclose income (loss) from continuing operations and income or loss from continuing operations attributable to the controlling interest.
(6) The pro forma condensed balance sheet and pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income must include, and be limited to, the following pro forma adjustments, except as noted in paragraph (a)(7) of this section:
(i)
Transaction Accounting Adjustments.
(A) Adjustments that depict in the pro forma condensed balance sheet the accounting for the transaction required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) or, as applicable, International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS-IASB). Calculate pro forma adjustments using the measurement date and method prescribed by the applicable accounting standards. For a probable transaction, calculate pro forma adjustments using, and disclose, the most recent practicable date prior to the effective date (for registration statements), qualification date (for offering statements under 17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263 (Regulation A)), or the mail date (for proxy statements).
(B) Adjustments that depict in the pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income the effects of the pro forma balance sheet adjustments in paragraph (a)(6)(i)(A) of this section assuming those adjustments were made as of the beginning of the fiscal year presented. Such adjustments must be made whether or not the pro forma balance sheet is presented pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the condition in § 210.11-01(a) that is met does not have a balance sheet effect, then depict the accounting for the transaction required by U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable.
(ii)
Autonomous Entity Adjustments.
Adjustments that depict the registrant as an autonomous entity if the condition in § 210.11-01(a)(7) is met. Autonomous Entity Adjustments must be presented in a separate column from Transaction Accounting Adjustments.
(7) Management's Adjustments depicting synergies and dis-synergies of the acquisitions and dispositions for which pro forma effect is being given may, in the registrant's discretion, be presented if in its management's opinion, such adjustments would enhance an understanding of the pro forma effects of the transaction and the following conditions are met:
(i)
Basis for Management's Adjustments.
(A) There is a reasonable basis for each such adjustment.
(B) The adjustments are limited to the effect of such synergies and dis-synergies on the historical financial statements that form the basis for the pro forma statement of comprehensive income as if the synergies and dis-synergies existed as of the beginning of the fiscal year presented. If such adjustments reduce expenses, the reduction must not exceed the amount of the related expense historically incurred during the pro forma period presented.
(C) The pro forma financial information reflects all Management's Adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to a fair statement of the pro forma financial information presented and a statement to that effect is disclosed. When synergies are presented, any related dis-synergies must also be presented.
(ii)
Form of presentation.
(A) If presented, Management's Adjustments must be presented in the explanatory notes to the pro forma financial information in the form of reconciliations of pro forma net income from continuing operations attributable to the controlling interest and the related pro forma earnings per share data specified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section to
such amounts after giving effect to Management's Adjustments.
(B) Management's Adjustments included or incorporated by reference into a registration statement, proxy statement, Regulation A offering statement, or Form 8-K should be as of the most recent practicable date prior to the effective date, mail date, qualification date, or filing date as applicable, which may require that they be updated if previously provided in a Form 8-K that is appropriately incorporated by reference.
(C) If Management's Adjustments will change the number of shares or potential common shares, reflect the change within Management's Adjustments in accordance with U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable, as if the common stock or potential common stock were outstanding as of the beginning of the period presented.
(D) The explanatory notes must also include disclosure of the basis for and material limitations of each Management's Adjustment, including any material assumptions or uncertainties of such adjustment, an explanation of the method of the calculation of the adjustment, if material, and the estimated time frame for achieving the synergies and dis-synergies of such adjustment.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(7):
Any forward-looking information supplied is expressly covered by the safe harbor rules under §§ 230.175 and 240.3b-6 of this chapter.
(8) All pro forma adjustments should be referenced to notes that clearly explain the assumptions involved.
(9)(i) Historical and pro forma basic and diluted per share amounts based on continuing operations attributable to the controlling interests and the number of shares used to calculate such per share amounts must be presented on the face of the pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income and only give effect to Transaction Accounting Adjustments and Autonomous Entity Adjustments.
(ii) The number of shares used in the calculation of the pro forma per share amounts must be based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period adjusted to give effect to the number of shares issued or to be issued to consummate the transaction, or if applicable whose proceeds will be used to consummate the transaction as if the shares were outstanding as of the beginning of the period presented. Calculate the pro forma effect of potential common stock being issued in the transaction (
e.g.,
a convertible security), or the proceeds of which will be used to consummate the transaction, on pro forma earnings per share in accordance with U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable, as if the potential common stock were outstanding as of the beginning of the period presented.
(10) If the transaction is structured in such a manner that significantly different results may occur, provide additional pro forma presentations which give effect to the range of possible results.
(11) The accompanying explanatory notes must disclose:
(i) Revenues, expenses, gains and losses and related tax effects which will not recur in the income of the registrant beyond 12 months after the transaction.
(ii) For Transaction Accounting Adjustments:
(A) A table showing the total consideration transferred or received including its components and how they were measured. If total consideration includes contingent consideration, describe the arrangement(s), the basis for determining the amount of payment(s) or receipt(s), and an estimate of the range of outcomes (undiscounted) or, if a range cannot be estimated, that fact and the reasons why; and
(B) The following information when the accounting is incomplete: A prominent statement to this effect; the items for which the accounting depicted is incomplete; a description of the information that the registrant requires, including, if material, the uncertainties affecting the pro forma financial information and the possible consequences of their resolution; an indication of when the accounting is expected to be finalized; and other available information that will enable a reader to understand the magnitude of any potential adjustments to the measurements depicted.
(iii) For each Autonomous Entity Adjustment, a description of the adjustment (including the material uncertainties), the material assumptions, the calculation of the adjustment, and additional qualitative information about the Autonomous Entity Adjustments, if any, necessary to give a fair and balanced presentation of the pro forma financial information.
(12) A registrant must not:
(i) Present pro forma financial information on the face of the registrant's historical financial statements or in the accompanying notes, except where such presentation is required by U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable.
(ii) Present pro forma financial information, or summaries of such information, elsewhere in a filing that excludes material transactions for which pro forma effect is required to be given.
(iii) Present the pro forma amounts in paragraph (a)(7) of this section elsewhere in a filing without also presenting with equal or greater prominence the amounts specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section to which they are required to be reconciled and a cross-reference to that reconciliation.
(iv) Give pro forma effect to the registrant's adoption of an accounting standard in pro forma financial information required by §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-03.
(b)
Implementation guidance
—(1)
Historical statement of comprehensive income.
The historical statement of comprehensive income used in the pro forma financial information must only be presented through income from continuing operations (or the appropriate modification thereof).
(2)
Business acquisitions.
In some transactions, such as in financial institution acquisitions, measuring the acquired assets at their acquisition date fair value may result in significant discounts relative to the acquired business's historical cost of the acquired assets. When such discounts can result in a significant effect on earnings (losses) in periods immediately subsequent to the acquisition that will be progressively eliminated over a relatively short period, the effect of the discounts on reported results of operations for each of the next five years must be disclosed in a note.
(3)
Business dispositions.
Transaction Accounting Adjustments giving effect to the disposition of a business must not decrease historically incurred compensation expense for employees who were not, or will not be, transferred or terminated as of the disposition date.
(4)
Multiple transactions.
(i) When consummation of more than one transaction has occurred, or is probable, the pro forma financial information must present in separate columns each transaction for which pro forma presentation is required by § 210.11-01.
(ii) If the pro forma financial information is presented in a proxy or information statement for purposes of obtaining shareholder approval of one of the transactions, the effects of that transaction must be clearly set forth.
(5)
Tax effects.
(i) Tax effects, if any, of pro forma adjustments normally should be calculated at the statutory rate in effect during the periods for which pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income are presented and should be reflected as a separate pro forma adjustment.
(ii) When the registrant's historical statements of comprehensive income do not reflect the tax provision on the separate return basis, pro forma statements of comprehensive income adjustments must reflect a tax provision calculated on the separate return basis.
(c)
Periods to be presented.
(1) A pro forma condensed balance sheet as of the end of the most recent period for which a consolidated balance sheet of the registrant is required by § 210.3-01 must be filed unless the transaction is already reflected in such balance sheet.
(2)(i) Pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income must be filed for only the most recent fiscal year, except as noted in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, and for the period from the most recent fiscal year end to the most recent interim date for which a balance sheet is required. A pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income may be filed for the corresponding interim period of the
preceding fiscal year. A pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income must not be filed when the historical statement of comprehensive income reflects the transaction for the entire period.
(ii) For transactions required to be accounted for under U.S. GAAP or, as applicable, IFRS-IASB by retrospectively revising the historical statements of comprehensive income (
e.g.,
combination of entities under common control and discontinued operations), pro forma statements of comprehensive income must be filed for all periods for which historical financial statements of the registrant are required. Retrospective revisions stemming from the registrant's adoption of a new accounting principle must not be reflected in pro forma statements of comprehensive income until they are depicted in the registrant's historical financial statements.
(3) Pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income must be presented using the registrant's fiscal year end. If the most recent fiscal year end of any other entity involved in the transaction differs from the registrant's most recent fiscal year end by more than one fiscal quarter, the other entity's statement of comprehensive income must be brought up to within one fiscal quarter of the registrant's most recent fiscal year end, if practicable. This updating could be accomplished by adding subsequent interim period results to the most recent fiscal year end information and deducting the comparable preceding year interim period results. Disclosure must be made of the periods combined and of the sales or revenues and income for any periods which were excluded from or included more than once in the condensed pro forma statement of comprehensive income (
e.g.,
an interim period that is included both as part of the fiscal year and the subsequent interim period).
Instruction 1 to paragraph (c)(3):
In circumstances where different fiscal year ends exist, § 210.3-12 may require a registrant to include in the pro forma financial information an acquired or to be acquired foreign business historical period that would be more current than the periods included in the required historical financial statements of the foreign business.
(4) Whenever unusual events enter into the determination of the results shown for the most recently completed fiscal year, the effect of such unusual events should be disclosed and consideration should be given to presenting a pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income for the most recent twelve-month period in addition to those required in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section if the most recent twelve-month period is more representative of normal operations.
[85 FR 54066, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 210.11-03
Presentation of financial forecast.
(a) A financial forecast may be filed in lieu of the pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income required by § 210.11-02(a)(1).
(1) The financial forecast shall cover a period of at least 12 months from the latest of (i) the most recent balance sheet included in the filing or (ii) the consummation date or estimated consummation date of the transaction.
(2) The forecasted statement of comprehensive income shall be presented in the same degree of detail as the pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income required by § 210.11-02(a)(3).
(3) Assumptions particularly relevant to the transaction and effects thereof should be clearly set forth.
(4) Historical condensed financial information of the registrant and the business acquired or to be acquired, if any, shall be presented for at least a recent 12 month period in parallel columns with the financial forecast.
(b) Such financial forecast shall be presented in accordance with the guidelines established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
(c) Forecasted earnings per share data shall be substituted for pro forma per share data.
(d) This section does not permit the filing of a financial forecast in lieu of pro forma information required by U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB.
[47 FR 29837, July 9, 1982, as amended at 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018; 85 FR 54069, Aug. 31, 2020]

# Form and Content of Schedules

# general
§ 210.12-01
Application of §§ 210.12-01 to 210.12-29.
These sections prescribe the form and content of the schedules required by §§ 210.5-04, 210.6-10, 210.6A-05, and 210.7-05.
[59 FR 65637, Dec. 20, 1994]
§§ 210.12-02—210.12-03
[Reserved]
§ 210.12-04
Condensed financial information of registrant.
(a) Provide condensed financial information as to financial position, cash flows and results of operations of the registrant as of the same dates and for the same periods for which audited consolidated financial statements are required. The financial information required need not be presented in greater detail than is required for condensed statements by § 210.10-01(a) (2), (3) and (4). Detailed footnote disclosure which would normally be included with complete financial statements may be omitted with the exception of disclosures regarding material contingencies, long-term obligations and guarantees. Descriptions of significant provisions of the registrant's long-term obligations, mandatory dividend or redemption requirements of redeemable stocks, and guarantees of the registrant shall be provided along with a five-year schedule of maturities of debt. If the material contingencies, long-term obligations, redeemable stock requirements and guarantees of the registrant have been separately disclosed in the consolidated statements, they need not be repeated in this schedule.
(b) Disclose separately the amounts of cash dividends paid to the registrant for each of the last three fiscal years by consolidated subsidiaries, unconsolidated subsidiaries and 50 percent or less owned persons accounted for by the equity method, respectively.
[46 FR 56180, Nov. 16, 1981, as amended at 57 FR 45293, Oct. 1, 1992]
§ 210.12-05—210.12-08
[Reserved]
§ 210.12-09
Valuation and qualifying accounts.
Column A—Description
1
Column B—Balance at beginning of period
Column C—Additions
(1)—Charged to costs and expenses
(2)—Charged to other accounts—describe
Column D—Deductions—describe
Column E—Balance at end of period
1
List, by major classes, all valuation and qualifying accounts and reserves not included in specific schedules. Identify each class of valuation and qualifying accounts and reserves by descriptive title. Group (a) those valuation and qualifying accounts which are deducted in the balance sheet from the assets to which they apply and (b) those reserves which support the balance sheet caption, Reserves. Valuation and qualifying accounts and reserves as to which the additions, deductions, and balances were not individually significant may be grouped in one total and in such case the information called for under columns C and D need not be given.
[37 FR 14602, July 21, 1972. Redesignated and amended at 45 FR 63679, Sept. 25, 1980]
§§ 210.12-10—210.12-11
[Reserved]

# For Management Investment Companies
§ 210.12-12
Investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
[For management investment companies only]
Col. A
Col. B
Col. C
Name of issuer and title of issue
1 2 3 4
Balance held at close of period. Number of shares—principal amount of bonds and notes
7
Value of each item at close of period.
5 6 8 9 10
1
Each issue shall be listed separately:
Provided,
however, that an amount not exceeding five percent of the total of Column C may be listed in one amount as “Miscellaneous securities,” provided the securities so listed are not restricted, have been held for not more than one year prior to the date of the related balance sheet, and have not previously been reported by name to the shareholders of the person for which the schedule is filed or to any exchange, or set forth in any registration statement, application, or annual report or otherwise made available to the public. If any securities are listed as “Miscellaneous securities,” briefly explain in a footnote what the term represents.
2
Categorize the schedule by (i) the type of investment (such as common stocks, preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, options purchased, warrants, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, other investment companies, and so forth); and (ii) the related industry, country, or geographic region of the investment. Short-term debt instruments (
i.e.,
debt instruments whose maturities or expiration dates at the time of acquisition are one year or less) of the same issuer may be aggregated, in which case the range of interest rates and maturity dates shall be indicated. For issuers of periodic payment plan certificates and unit investment trusts, list separately: (i) Trust shares in trusts created or serviced by the depositor or sponsor of this trust; (ii) trust shares in other trusts; and (iii) securities of other investment companies. Restricted securities shall not be combined with unrestricted securities of the same issuer. Repurchase agreements shall be stated separately showing for each the name of the party or parties to the agreement, the date of the agreement, the total amount to be received upon repurchase, the repurchase date and description of securities subject to the repurchase agreements.
3
For options purchased, all information required by § 210.12-13 for options contracts written should be shown. Options on underlying investments where the underlying investment would otherwise be presented in accordance with §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D should include the description of the underlying investment as would be required by §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D as part of the description of the option.
4
Indicate the interest rate or preferential dividend rate and maturity date, as applicable, for preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, or other instruments with a stated rate of income. For variable rate securities, indicate a description of the reference rate and spread and: (1) The end of period interest rate or (2) disclose the end of period reference rate for each reference rate described in the Schedule in a note to the Schedule. For securities with payment in kind income, disclose the rate paid in kind.
5
The subtotals for each category of investments, subdivided both by type of investment and industry, country or geographic region, shall be shown together with their percentage value compared to net assets. (§§ 210.6-04.19 or 210.6-05.4.)
6
Column C shall be totaled. The total of Column C shall agree with the correlative amounts shown on the related balance sheet.
7
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities which is non-income producing. Evidences of indebtedness and preferred shares may be deemed to be income producing if, on the respective last interest payment date or date for the declaration of dividends prior to the date of the related balance sheet, there was only a partial payment of interest or a declaration of only a partial amount of the dividends payable; in such case, however, each such issue shall be indicated by an appropriate symbol referring to a note to the effect that, on the last interest or dividend date, only partial interest was paid or partial dividends declared. If, on such respective last interest or dividend date, no interest was paid or no cash or in kind dividends declared, the issue shall not be deemed to be income producing. Common shares shall not be deemed to be income producing unless, during the last year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, there was at least one dividend paid upon such common shares.
8
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of restricted securities. State the following in a footnote: (a) As to each such issue: (1) Acquisition date, (2) carrying value per unit of investment at date of related balance sheet,
e.g.,
a percentage of current market value of unrestricted securities of the same issuer, etc., and (3) the cost of such securities; (b) as to each issue acquired during the year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, the carrying value per unit of investment of unrestricted securities of the same issuer at: (1) The day the purchase price was agreed to; and (2) the day on which an enforceable right to acquire such securities was obtained; and (c) the aggregate value of all restricted securities and the percentage which the aggregate value bears to net assets.
9
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
10
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities held in connection with open put or call option contracts, loans for short sales, or where any portion of the issue is on loan.
[81 FR 82014, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.12-12A
Investments—securities sold short.
[For management investment companies only]
Col. A
Col. B
Col. C
Name of issuer and title of issue
1 2 3
Balance of short position at close of period (number of shares)
Value of each open short position
4 5 6
1
Each issue shall be listed separately.
2
Categorize the schedule as required by instruction 2 of § 210.12-12.
3
Indicate the interest rate or preferential dividend rate and maturity date, as applicable, for preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, or other instruments with a stated rate of income. For variable rate securities, indicate a description of the reference rate and spread and: (1) The end of period interest rate or (2) disclose the end of period reference rate for each reference rate described in the Schedule in a note to the Schedule. For securities with payment in kind income, disclose the rate paid in kind.
4
The subtotals for each category of investments, subdivided both by type of investment and industry, country, or geographic region, shall be shown together with their percentage value compared to net assets.
5
Column C shall be totaled. The total of Column C shall agree with the correlative amounts shown on the related balance sheet.
6
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
[81 FR 82015, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.12-12B
Summary schedule of investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
Column A
Column B
Column C
Column D
Name of issuer and title of issue
1 3 4 5 6 7 8
Balance held at close of period. Number of shares—principal amount of bonds and notes
10
Value of each item at close of period
2 9 11 12 13
Percentage value compared to net assets.
1
Categorize the schedule by (a) the type of investment (such as common stocks, preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, options purchased, warrants, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, other investment companies, and so forth); and (b) the related industry, country or geographic region of the investment.
2
The subtotals for each category of investments, subdivided both by type of investment and industry, country, or geographic region, shall be shown together with their percentage value compared to net assets.
3
Indicate the interest rate or preferential dividend rate and maturity date, as applicable, for preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, or other instruments with a stated rate of income. For variable rate securities, indicate a description of the reference rate and spread and: (1) The end of period interest rate or (2) disclose the end of period reference rate for each reference rate described in the Schedule in a note to the Schedule. For securities with payment in kind income, disclose the rate paid in kind.
4
Except as provided in note 6, list separately the 50 largest issues and any other issue the value of which exceeded one percent of net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period. For purposes of the list (including, in the case of short-term debt instruments, the first sentence of note 4), aggregate and treat as a single issue, respectively, (a) short-term debt instruments (
i.e.,
debt instruments whose maturities or expiration dates at the time of acquisition are one year or less) of the same issuer (indicating the range of interest rates and maturity dates); and (b) fully collateralized repurchase agreements (indicate in a footnote the range of dates of the repurchase agreements, the total purchase price of the securities, the total amount to be received upon repurchase, the range of repurchase dates, and description of securities subject to the repurchase agreements). Restricted and unrestricted securities of the same issue should be aggregated for purposes of determining whether the issue is among the 50 largest issues, but should not be combined in the schedule. For purposes of determining whether the value of an issue exceeds one percent of net asset value, aggregate and treat as a single issue all securities of any one issuer, except that all fully collateralized repurchase agreements shall be aggregated and treated as a single issue. The U.S. Treasury and each agency, instrumentality, or corporation, including each government-sponsored entity, that issues U.S. government securities is a separate issuer.
5
For options purchased, all information required by § 210.12-13 for options contracts written should be shown. Options on underlying investments where the underlying investment would otherwise be presented in accordance with §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D should include the description of the underlying investment as would be required by §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D as part of the description of the option.
6
If multiple securities of an issuer aggregate to greater than one percent of net asset value, list each issue of the issuer separately (including separate listing of restricted and unrestricted securities of the same issue) except that the following may be aggregated and listed as a single issue: (a) Fixed-income securities of the same issuer which are not among the 50 largest issues and whose value does not exceed one percent of net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period (indicating the range of interest rates and maturity dates); and (b) U.S. government securities of a single agency, instrumentality, or corporation, which are not among the 50 largest issues and whose value does not exceed one percent of net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period (indicating the range of interest rates and maturity dates). For each category identified pursuant to note 1, group all issues that are neither separately listed nor included in a group of securities that is listed in the aggregate as a single issue in a sub-category labeled “Other securities,” and provide the information for Columns C and D.
7
Any securities that would be required to be listed separately or included in a group of securities that is listed in the aggregate as a single issue may be listed in one amount as “Miscellaneous securities,” provided the securities so listed are eligible to be, and are, categorized as “Miscellaneous securities” in the registrant's Schedule of Investments in Securities of Unaffiliated Issuers required under § 210.12-12. However, if any security that is included in “Miscellaneous securities” would otherwise be required to be included in a group of securities that is listed in the aggregate as a single issue, the remaining securities of that group must nonetheless be listed as required by notes 4 and 5 even if the remaining securities alone would not otherwise be required to be listed in this manner (
e.g.,
because the combined value of the security listed in “Miscellaneous securities” and the remaining securities of the same issuer exceeds one percent of net asset value, but the value of the remaining securities alone does not exceed one percent of net asset value).
8
If any securities are listed as “Miscellaneous securities” pursuant to note 6 or “Other securities” pursuant to note 5, briefly explain in a footnote what those terms represent.
9
Total Column C. The total of Column C should equal the total shown on the related balance sheet for investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
10
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities which is non-income producing. Evidences of indebtedness and preferred shares may be deemed to be income producing if, on the respective last interest payment date or date for the declaration of dividends prior to the date of the related balance sheet, there was only a partial payment of interest or a declaration of only a partial amount of the dividends payable; in such case, however, each such issue shall be indicated by an appropriate symbol referring to a note to the effect that, on the last interest or dividend date, only partial interest was paid or partial dividends declared. If, on such respective last interest or dividend date, no interest was paid or no cash or in kind dividends declared, the issue shall not be deemed to be income producing. Common shares shall not be deemed to be income producing unless, during the last year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, there was at least one dividend paid upon such common shares.
11
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of restricted securities. State the following in a footnote: (a) As to each such issue: (1) Acquisition date, (2) carrying value per unit of investment at date of related balance sheet,
e.g.,
a percentage of current market value of unrestricted securities of the same issuer, etc., and (3) the cost of such securities; (b) as to each issue acquired during the year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, the carrying value per unit of investment of unrestricted securities of the same issuer at: (1) The day the purchase price was agreed to; and (2) the day on which an enforceable right to acquire such securities was obtained; and (c) the aggregate value of all restricted securities and the percentage which the aggregate value bears to net assets.
12
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
13
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities held in connection with open put or call option contracts, loans for short sales, or where any portion of the issue is on loan.
[81 FR 82015, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.12-12C
[Reserved]
§ 210.12-13
Open option contracts written.
[For management investment companies only]
Col. A
Col. B
Col. C
Col. D
Col. E
Col. F
Col. G
Description
1 2 3
Counterparty
4
Number of contracts
5
Notional amount
Exercise price
Expiration date
Value.
6 7 8
1
Information as to put options shall be shown separately from information as to call options.
2
Options where descriptions, counterparties, exercise prices or expiration dates differ shall be listed separately.
3
Options on underlying investments where the underlying investment would otherwise be presented in accordance with §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D should include the description of the underlying investment as would be required by §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D as part of the description of the option.
If the underlying investment is an index or basket of investments, and the components are publicly available on a Web site as of the balance sheet date, identify the index or basket. If the underlying investment is an index or basket of investments, the components are not publicly available on a Web site as of the balance sheet date, and the notional amount of the option contract does not exceed one percent of the net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period, identify the index or basket. If the underlying investment is an index or basket of investments, the components are not publicly available on a Web site as of the balance sheet date, and the notional amount of the option contract exceeds one percent of the net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period, provide a description of the index or custom basket and list separately: (i) The 50 largest components in the index or custom basket and (ii) any other components where the notional value for that components exceeds 1% of the notional value of the index or custom basket. For each investment separately listed, include the description of the underlying investment as would be required by §§ 210.12-12, 12-13, 12-13A, 12-13B, or 12-13D as part of the description, the quantity held (
e.g.
the number of shares for common stocks, principal amount for fixed income securities), the value at the close of the period, and the percentage value when compared to the custom basket's net assets.
4
Not required for exchange traded or centrally cleared options.
5
If the number of shares subject to option is substituted for number of contracts, the column name shall reflect that change.
6
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment which cannot be sold because of restrictions or conditions applicable to the investment.
7
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
8
Column G shall be totaled and shall agree with the correlative amount shown on the related balance sheet.
[81 FR 82016, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.12-13A
Open futures contracts.
[For management investment companies only]
Col. A
Col. B
Col. C
Col. D
Col. E
Col. F
Description
1 2 3 4 5
Number of contracts
Expiration date
Notional amount
6
Value
Unrealized appreciation/depreciation.
1
Information as to long purchases of futures contracts shall be shown separately from information as to futures contracts sold short.
2
Futures contracts where descriptions or expiration dates differ shall be listed separately.
3
Description should include the name of the reference asset or index.
4
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment which cannot be sold because of restrictions or conditions applicable to the investment.
5
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
6
Notional amount shall be the current notional amount at close of period.
[81 FR 82017, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.12-13B
Open forward foreign currency contracts.
[For management investment companies only]
Col. A
Col. B
Col. C
Col. D
Col. E
Amount and description of currency to be purchased
1
Amount and description of currency to be sold
1
Counterparty
Settlement date
Unrealized appreciation/
depreciation.
2 3 4
1
Forward foreign currency contracts where description of currency purchased, description of currency sold, counterparty, or settlement dates differ shall be listed separately.
2
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment which cannot be sold because of restrictions or conditions applicable to the investment.
3
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
4
Column E shall be totaled and shall agree with the total of correlative amount(s) shown on the related balance sheet.
[81 FR 82017, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.12-13C
Open swap contracts.
[For management investment companies only]
Col. A
Col. B
Col. C
Col. D
Col. E
Col. F
Col. G
Col. H
Description and terms of payments to be received from another party
1 2 3
Description and terms of payments to be paid to another party
1 2 3
Counterparty
4
Maturity date
Notional amount
Value
Upfront payments/receipts
Unrealized appreciation/
depreciation.
5 6 7
1
List each major category of swaps by descriptive title (
e.g.,
credit default swaps, interest rate swaps, total return swaps). Credit default swaps where protection is sold shall be listed separately from credit default swaps where protection is purchased.
2
Swaps where description, counterparty, or maturity dates differ shall be listed separately within each major category.
3
Description should include information sufficient for a user of financial information to understand the terms of payments to be received and paid. (
e.g.
For a credit default swap, including, among other things, description of reference obligation(s) or index, financing rate to be paid or received, and payment frequency. For an interest rate swap, this may include, among other things, whether floating rate is paid or received, fixed interest rate, floating interest rate, and payment frequency. For a total return swap, this may include, among other things, description of reference asset(s) or index, financing rate, and payment frequency.) If the reference instrument is an index or basket of investments, and the components are publicly available on a Web site as of the balance sheet date, identify the index or basket.If the reference instrument is an index or basket of investments, the components are not publicly available on a Web site as of the balance sheet date, and the notional amount of the swap contract does not exceed one percent of the net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period, identify the index or basket. If the reference instrument is an index or basket of investments, the components are not publicly available on a Web site as of the balance sheet date, and the notional amount of the swap contract exceeds one percent of the net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period provide a description of the index or custom basket and list separately: (i) The 50 largest components in the index or custom basket and (ii) any other components where the notional value for that components exceeds 1% of the notional value of the index or custom basket. For each investment separately listed, include the description of the underlying investment as would be required by §§ 210.12-12, 210.12-13, 210.12-13A, 210.12-13B, or 210.12-13D as part of the description, the quantity held (
e.g.
, the number of shares for common stocks, principal amount for fixed income securities), the value at the close of the period, and the percentage value when compared to the custom basket's net assets.
4
Not required for exchange-traded or centrally cleared swaps.
5
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment which cannot be sold because of restrictions or conditions applicable to the investment.
6
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
7
Columns G and H shall be totaled and shall agree with the total of correlative amount(s) shown on the related balance sheet.
[81 FR 82017, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.12-13D
Investments other than those presented in §§ 210.12-12, 12-12A, 12-12B, 12-13, 12-13A, 12-13B, and 12-13C.
[For management investment companies only]
Col. A
Col. B
Col. C
Description
1 2 3
Balance held at close of period—quantity
4 5
Value of each item at close of period.
6 7 8 9
1
Each investment where any portion of the description differs shall be listed separately.
2
Categorize the schedule by (i) the type of investment (such as real estate, commodities, and so forth); and, as applicable, (ii) the related industry, country, or geographic region of the investment.
3
Description should include information sufficient for a user of financial information to understand the nature and terms of the investment, which may include, among other things, reference security, asset or index, currency, geographic location, payment terms, payment rates, call or put feature, exercise price, expiration date, and counterparty for non-exchange-traded investments.
4
If practicable, indicate the quantity or measure in appropriate units.
5
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment which is non-income producing.
6
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment which cannot be sold because of restrictions or conditions applicable to the investment.
7
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each investment whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
8
Indicate by an appropriate symbol investment subject to option. State in a footnote: (a) The quantity subject to option, (b) nature of option contract, (c) option price, and (d) dates within which options may be exercised.
9
Column C shall be totaled and shall agree with the correlative amount shown on the related balance sheet.
[81 FR 82018, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 210.12-14
Investments in and advances to affiliates.
[For management investment companies only]
Col. A
Col. B
Col. C
Col. D
Col. E
Col. F
Name of issuer and title of issue or nature of indebtedness
1 2 3
Number of shares—principal amount of bonds, notes and other indebtedness held at close of period
Net realized gain or loss for the period
4 6
Net increase or decrease in unrealized appreciation or depreciation for the period
4 6
Amount of dividends or interest
4 6
(1) Credited to income
(2) Other
Value of each item at close of period.
4 5 7 8 9
1
(a) List each issue separately and group (1) Investments in majority-owned subsidiaries; (2) other controlled companies; and (3) other affiliates. (b) If during the period there has been any increase or decrease in the amount of investment in and advance to any affiliate, state in a footnote (or if there have been changes to numerous affiliates, in a supplementary schedule) (1) name of each issuer and title of issue or nature of indebtedness; (2) balance at beginning of period; (3) gross additions; (4) gross reductions;(5) balance at close of period as shown in Column F. Include in the footnote or schedule comparable information as to affiliates in which there was an investment at any time during the period even though there was no investment at the close of the period of report.
2
Categorize the schedule as required by instruction 2 of § 210.12-12.
3
Indicate the interest rate or preferential dividend rate and maturity date, as applicable, for preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, or other instruments with a stated rate of income. For variable rate securities, indicate a description of the reference rate and spread and: (1) The end of period interest rate or (2) disclose the end of period reference rate for each reference rate described in the Schedule in a note to the Schedule. For securities with payment in kind income, disclose the rate paid in kind.
4
Columns C, D, E, and F shall be totaled. The totals of Column F shall agree with the correlative amount shown on the related balance sheet.
5
(a) Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of restricted securities. The information required by instruction 8 of § 210.12-12 shall be given in a footnote. (b) Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities subject to option. The information required by § 210.12-13 shall be given in a footnote.
6
(a) Include in Column E (1) as to each issue held at the close of the period, the dividends or interest included in caption 1 of the statement of operations. In addition, show as the final item in Column E (1) the aggregate of dividends and interest included in the statement of operations in respect of investments in affiliates not held at the close of the period. The total of this column shall agree with the correlative amount shown on the related statement of operations.
(b) Include in Column E (2) all other dividends and interest. Explain in an appropriate footnote the treatment accorded each item.
(c) Indicate by an appropriate symbol all non-cash dividends and interest and explain the circumstances in a footnote.
(d) Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities which is non-income producing. Evidences of indebtedness and preferred shares may be deemed to be income producing if, on the respective last interest payment date or date for the declaration of dividends prior to the date of the related balance sheet, there was only a partial payment of interest or a declaration of only a partial amount of the dividends payable; in such case, however, each such issue shall be indicated by an appropriate symbol referring to a note to the effect that, on the last interest or dividend date, only partial interest was paid or partial dividends declared. If, on such respective last interest or dividend date, no interest was paid or no cash or in kind dividends declared, the issue shall not be deemed to be income producing. Common shares shall not be deemed to be income producing unless, during the last year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, there was at least one dividend paid upon such common shares.
(e) Include in Column C (1) as to each issue held at the close of the period, the realized gain or loss included in § 210.6-07.7 of the statement of operations. In addition, show as the final item in Column C (1) the aggregate of realized gain or loss included in the statement of operations in respect of investments in affiliates not held at the close of the period. The total of this column shall agree with the correlative amount shown on the related statement of operations.
(f) Include in Column D (1) as to each issue held at the close of the period, the net increase or decrease in unrealized appreciation or depreciation included in § 210.6-07 .7 of the statement of operations. In addition, show as the final item in Column D (1) the aggregate of increase or decrease in unrealized appreciation or depreciation included in the statement of operations in respect of investments in affiliates not held at the close of the period. The total of this column shall agree with the correlative amount shown on the related statement of operations.
7
The subtotals for each category of investments, subdivided both by type of investment and industry, country, or geographic region, shall be shown together with their percentage value compared to net assets.
8
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.
9
Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities held in connection with open put or call option contracts, loans for short sales, or where any portion of the issue is on loan.
[81 FR 82018, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 57234, Oct. 24, 2019]
§ 210.12-15
Summary of investments—other than investments in related parties.
[For Insurance Companies]
Column A
Type of investment
Column B
Cost
1
Column C
Value
Column D
Amount at which shown in the balance sheet
2
Fixed maturities:
Bonds:
United States Government and government agencies and authorities
States, municipalities and political subdivisions
Foreign governments
Public utilities
Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached
3
All other corporate bonds
Certificates of deposit
Redeemable preferred stock
Total fixed maturities
Equity securities:
Common stocks:
Public utilities
Banks, trust and insurance companies
Industrial, miscellaneous and all other
Nonredeemable preferred stocks
Total equity securities
Mortgage loans on real estate
Real estate
4
Policy loans
Other long-term investments
Short-term investments
Total investments
1
Original cost of equity securities and, as to fixed maturities, original cost reduced by repayments and adjusted for amortization of premiums or accrual of discounts.
2
If the amount at which shown in the balance sheet is different from the amount shown in either column B or C, state the reason for such difference. The total of this column should agree with the balance sheet.
3
All convertibles and bonds with warrants shall be included in this caption, regardless of issuer.
4
State separately any real estate acquired in satisfaction of debt.
[46 FR 54337, Nov. 2, 1981]
§ 210.12-16
Supplementary insurance information.
[For insurance companies]
Column A
Segment
1
Column B
Deferred policy acquisition cost (caption 7)
Column C
Future policy benefits, losses, claims and loss expenses (caption 13-a-1)
Column D
Unearned premiums (caption 13-a-2)
Column E
Other policy claims and benefits payable (caption 13-a-3)
Column F
Premium revenue (caption 1)
Column G
Net investment income (caption 2)
3
Column H
Benefits, claims, losses, and settlement expenses (caption 5)
Column I
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
4
Column J
Other operating expenses
3 4
Column K
Premiums written
2
Total
5
1
Segments shown should be the same as those presented in the footnote disclosures called for by generally accepted accounting principles.
2
Does not apply to life insurance or title insurance. This amount should include premiums from reinsurance assumed, and be net of premiums on reinsurance ceded.
3
State the basis for allocation of net investment income and, where applicable, other operating expenses.
4
The total of columns I and J should agree with the amount shown for statement of comprehensive income caption 7.
5
Totals should agree with the indicated balance sheet and statement of comprehensive income caption amounts, where a caption number is shown.
[46 FR 54338, Nov. 2, 1981, as amended at 57 FR 45293, Oct. 1, 1992; 64 FR 1734, Jan. 12, 1999; 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.12-17
Reinsurance.
[For insurance companies]
Column A
Column B
Gross amount
Column C
Ceded to other companies
1
Column D
Assumed from other companies
Column E
Net amount
2
Column F
Percentage of amount assumed to net
3
Life insurance in force
Premiums:
Life insurance
Accident and health insurance
Property and liability insurance
Title insurance
Total premiums
1
Indicate in a note any amounts of reinsurance or coinsurance income netted against premiums ceded.
2
This Column represents the total of column B less column C plus column D. The total premiums in this column should represent the amount of premium revenue on the statement of comprehensive income (or statement of net income if comprehensive income is presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements).
3
Calculated as the amount in column D divided by amount in column E.
[46 FR 54338, Nov. 2, 1981, as amended at 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.12-18
Supplemental information (for property-casualty insurance underwriters).
Affiliation with registrant
Deferred policy acquisition costs
Reserves for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses
Discount, if any, deducted in column C
4
Unearned premiums
Earned premiums
Net investment income
Claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred related to
(1) Current year
(2) Prior years
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
Paid claims and claim adjustment expenses
Premiums written
Column A
Column B
Column C
Column D
Column E
Column F
Column G
Column H
Column I
Column J
Column K
(a) Consolidated property-casualty entities
2
(b) Unconsolidated property-casualty subsidiaries
2 3
(c) Proportionate share of registrant and its subsidiaries' 50%-or-less-owned property-casualty equity investees
2 3
1
Information included in audited financial statements, including other schedules, need not be repeated in this schedule. Columns B, C, D, and E are as of the balance sheet dates, columns F, G, H, I, J, and K are for the same periods for which statements of comprehensive income are presented in the registrant's audited consolidated financial statements.
2
Present combined or consolidated amounts, as appropriate for each category, after intercompany eliminations.
3
Information is not required here for 50%-or-less-owned equity investees that file similar information with th Commission as registrants in their own right, if that fact and the name of the affiliated registrant is stated. If ending reserves in any category (a), (b), or (c) above is less than 5% of the total reserves otherwise required to be reported in this schedule, that category may be omitted and that fact so noted. If the amount of the reserves attributable to 50%-or-less-owned equity investors that file this information as registrants in their own right exceeds 95% of the total category (c) reserves, information for the other 50%-or-less-owned equity investees need not be provided.
4
Disclose in a footnote to this schedule the rate, or range of rates, estimated if necessary, at which the discount was computed for each category.
[49 FR 47599, Dec. 6, 1984, as amended at 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]

# for face-amount certificate investment companies

# Source:
Sections 210.12-21 to 210.12-41 appear at 16 FR 348, Jan. 13, 1951, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 45 FR 63679, Sept. 25, 1980.
§ 210.12-21
Investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.
Column A—Name of issuer and title of issue
1
Column B—Balance held at close of period. Number of shares—principal amount of bonds and notes
2
Column C—Cost of each item
3 4
Column D—Value of each item at close of period
3 5
1
(a) The required information is to be given as to all securities held as of the close of the period of report. Each issue shall be listed separately.
(b) Indicate by an appropriate symbol those securities which are non-income-producing securities. Evidences of indebtedness and preferred shares may be deemed to be income-producing if, on the respective last interest payment date or dates for the declaration of dividends prior to the date of the related balance sheet, there was only a partial payment of interest or a declaration of only a partial amount of the dividends payable; in such case, however, each such issue shall be indicated by an appropriate symbol referring to a note to the effect that, on the last interest or dividend date, only partial interest was paid or partial dividends declared. If, on such respective last interest or dividend date, no interest was paid or no dividends declared, the issue shall not be deemed to be income-producing. Common shares shall not be deemed to be income-producing unless, during the last year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, there was at least one dividend paid upon such common shares. List separately (1) bonds; (2) preferred shares; (3) common shares. Within each of these subdivisions classify according to type of business, insofar as practicable: e.g., investment companies, railroads, utilities, banks, insurance companies, or industrials. Give totals for each group, subdivision, and class.
2
Indicate any securities subject to option at the end of the most recent period and state in a note the amount subject to option, the option prices, and the dates within which such options may be exercised.
3
Columns C and D shall be totaled. The totals of columns C and D should agree with the correlative amounts required to be shown by the related balance sheet captions. State in a footnote to column C the aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes.
4
If any investments have been written down or reserved against by such companies pursuant to § 210.6-03(d), indicate each such item by means of an appropriate symbol and explain in a footnote.
5
Where value is determined on any other basis than closing prices reported on any national securities exchange, explain such other basis in a footnote.
[47 FR 56844, Dec. 21, 1982, as amended at 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.12-22
Investments in and advances to affiliates and income thereon.
Column A—Name of issuer and title of issue or amount of indebtedness
1
Column B—Balance held at close of period—Number of shares—principal amount of bonds, notes and other indebtedness
2
Column C—Cost of each item
3 4
Column D—Amount at which carried at close of period
4 5
Column E—Amount of dividends or interest
4 6
(1)—Credited to income
(2)—Other
Column F—Amount of equity in net profit and loss for the period
7
1
(a) The required information is to be given as to all investments in affiliates as of the close of the period. See §§ 210.6-06(1), 210.6-06(5)(b), 210.6-06(8)(a)(2), and 210.6-06(8)(a)(3). List each issue and group separately (1) investments in majority-owned subsidiaries, segregating subsidiaries consolidated; (2) other controlled companies; and (3) other affiliates. Give totals for each group. If operations of any controlled companies are different in character from those of the registrant, group such affiliates within divisions (1) and (2) by type of activities.
(b)
Changes during the period.
If during the period there has been any increase or decrease in the amount of investment in any affiliate, state in a footnote (or if there have been changes as to numerous affiliates, in a supplementary schedule) (1) name of each issuer and title of issue; (2) balance at beginning of period; (3) gross purchases and additions; (4) gross sales and reductions; (5) balance at close of period as shown in column C. Include in such footnote or schedule comparable information as to affiliates in which there was an investment at any time during the period even though there was no investment in such affiliate as of the close of such period.
2
Indicate any securities subject to option at the end of the most recent period and state in a footnote the amount subject to option, the option prices, and the dates within which such options may be exercised.
3
If the cost in column C represents other than cash expenditure, explain.
4
(a) Columns C, D and E shall be totaled. The totals of columns C and D should agree with correlative amounts required to be shown by the related balance sheet captions. State in a footnote the aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes.
(b) If any investments have been written down or reserved against by such companies pursuant to § 210.6-03(d), indicate each such item by means of an appropriate symbol and explain in a footnote.
5
State the basis of determining the amounts shown in column D.
6
Show in column E(1) as to each issue held at close of period, the dividends or interest included in caption 1 of the profit and loss or income statement. In addition, show as the final item in column E(1) the aggregate dividends and interest included in the profit and loss or income statement in respect of investments in affiliates not held at the close of the period. The total of this column should agree with the amounts shown under such caption. Include in column E(2) all other dividends and interest. Explain briefly in an appropriate footnote the treatment accorded each item. Identify by an appropriate symbol all non-cash dividends and explain the circumstances in a footnote. See §§ 210.6-06(3)(a)(2), 210.6-03(g), and 210.6-07(1).
7
The information required by column F need be furnished only as to controlled companies. The equity in the net profit and loss of each person required to be listed separately shall be computed on an individual basis. In addition, there may be submitted the information required as computed on the basis of the statements of each such person and its subsidiaries consolidated.
[59 FR 65637, Dec. 20, 1994, as amended at 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.12-23
Mortgage loans on real estate and interest earned on mortgages.
1
Part 1—Mortgage loans on real estate at close of period
Column A—List by classification indicated below
2 3 7
Column B—Prior liens
2
Column C—Carrying amount of mortgage
8 9 10 11
Column D—Amount of principal unpaid at close of period
(1)—Total
(2)—Subject to delinquent interest
4
Column E—Amount of mortgage being foreclosed
Part 2—Interest earned on mortgages
Column F—Interest due and accrued at end of period
6
Column G—Interest income earned applicable to period
5
Liens on:
Farms (total)
Residential (total)
Apartments and business (total)
Unimproved (total)
Total
12
1
All money columns shall be totaled.
2
If mortgages represent other than first liens, list separately in a schedule in a like manner, indicating briefly the nature of the lien. Information need not be furnished as to such liens which are fully insured or wholly guaranteed by an agency of the United States Government.
3
In a separate schedule classify by states in which the mortgaged property is located the total amounts in support of columns B, C, D and E.
4
(a) Interest in arrears for less than 3 months may be disregarded in computing the total amount of principal subject to delinquent interest.
(b) Of the total principal amount, state the amount acquired from controlled and other affiliates.
5
In order to reconcile the total of column G with the amount shown in the profit and loss or income statement, interest income earned applicable to period from mortgages sold or canceled during period should be added to the total of this column.
6
If the information required by columns F and G is not reasonably available because the obtaining thereof would involve unreasonable effort or expense, such information may be omitted if the registrant shall include a statement showing that unreasonable effort or expense would be involved. In such an event, state in column G for each of the above classes of mortgage loans the average gross rate of interest on mortgage loans held at the end of the fiscal period.
7
Each mortgage loan included in column C in an amount in excess of $500,000 shall be listed separately. Loans from $100,000 to $500,000 shall be grouped by $50,000 groups, indicating the number of loans in each group.
8
In a footnote to this schedule, furnish a reconciliation, in the following form, of the carrying amount of mortgage loans at the beginning of the period with the total amount shown in column C:
Balance at beginning of period
$
Additions during period:
New mortgage loans
$
Other (describe)
Deductions during period:
Collections of principal
$
Foreclosures
Cost of mortgages sold
Amortization of premium
Other (describe)
Balance at close of period
$
If additions represent other than cash expenditures, explain. If any of the changes during the period result from transactions, directly or indirectly with affiliates, explain the bases of such transactions, and amounts involved. State the aggregate amount of mortgages (a) renewed and (b) extended. If the carrying amount of the new mortgages is in excess of the unpaid amount (not including interest) of prior mortgages, explain.
9
If any item of mortgage loans on real estate investments has been written down or reserved against pursuant to § 210.6-03 describe the item and explain the basis for the write-down or reserve.
10
State in a footnote to column C the aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes.
11
If the total amount shown in column C includes intercompany profits, state the bases of the transactions resulting in such profits and, if practicable, state the amounts thereof.
12
Summarize the aggregate amounts for each column applicable to § 210.6-06(1) and 6-06(5)(a).
[16 FR 348, Jan. 13, 1951, as amended at 16 FR 2655, Mar. 24, 1951; 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.12-24
Real estate owned and rental income.
1
Part 1—Real estate owned at end of period
Column A—
List
classification
of property
as indicated
below
2
3
Column B—
Amount of
incumbrances
Column C—
Initial cost
to company
Column D—
Cost of
improvements,
etc.
Column E—
Amount at
which carried
at close of
period
4
5
6
7
Column F—
Reserve for
depreciation
Part 2—Rental income
Column G—
Rents due and
accrued at
end of period
Column H—
Total rental
income
applicable
to period
Column I—
Expended
for interest,
taxes, repairs
and expenses
Column J—
Net income
applicable
to period
Total
8
Rent from properties sold during period
Total
1
All money columns shall be totaled.
2
Each item of property included in column E in an amount in excess of $100,000 shall be listed separately.
3
In a separate schedule classify by states in which the real estate owned is located the total amounts in support of columns E and F.
4
In a footnote to this schedule, furnish a reconciliation, in the following form, of the total amount at which real estate was carried at the beginning of the period with the total amount shown in column E:
Balance at beginning of period
$
Additions during period:
Acquisitions through foreclosure
$
Other acquisitions
Improvements, etc
Other (describe)
Deductions during period:
Cost of real estate sold
$
Other (describe)
Balance at close of period
$
If additions, except acquisitions through foreclosure, represent other than cash expenditures, explain. If any of the changes during the period result from transactions, directly or indirectly, with affiliates, explain and state the amount of any intercompany gain or loss.
5
If any item of real estate investments has been written down or reserved against pursuant to § 210.6-03(d), describe the item and explain the basis for the write-down or reserve.
6
State in a footnote to column E the aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes.
7
The amount of all intercompany profits included in the total of column E shall be stated if material.
8
Summarize the aggregate amounts for each column applicable to § 210.6-06(1) and 6-06(5)(a).
[16 FR 348, Jan. 13, 1951, as amended at 16 FR 2655, Mar. 24, 1951. Redesignated at 45 FR 63679, Sept. 25, 1980; 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.12-25
Supplementary profit and loss information.
Column A—Item
1
Column B—Charged to investment expense
Column C—Charged to other accounts
(1)—Account
(2)—Amount
Column D—Total
1. Legal expenses (including those in connection with any matter, measure or proceeding before legislative bodies, officers or government departments)
2. Advertising and publicity
3. Sales promotion
2
4. Payments directly and indirectly to trade associations and service organizations, and contributions to other organizations
1
Amounts resulting from transactions with affiliates shall be stated separately.
2
State separately each category of expense representing more than 5 percent of the total expense shown under this item.
§ 210.12-26
Certificate reserves.
Column A—Description
1
Column B—Balance at beginning of period
(1)—Number of accounts with security bidders
(2)—Amount of maturity value
(3)—Amount of reserved
2
Column C—Additions
(1)—Charged to profit and loss or income
(2)—Reserve payments by certificate holders
(3)—Charged to other accounts describe
Column D—Deductions
(1)—Maturities
(2)—Cash surenders prior to maturity
(3)—Other—describe
Column E—Balance at close of period
(1)—Number of accounts with security holders
(2)—Amount of maturity value
(3)—Amount of reserves
2
1
(a) Each series of certificates shall be stated separately. The description shall include the yield to maturity on an annual payment basis.
(b) For certificates of the installment type, information required by columns B, D (2) and (3) and E shall be given by age groupings, according to the number of months paid by security holders, grouped to show those upon which 1-12 monthly payments have been made, 13-24 payments, etc.
2
(a) If the total of the reserves shown in these columns differs from the total of the reserves per the accounts, there should be stated (i) the aggregate difference and (ii) the difference on a $1,000 face-amount certificate basis.
(b) There shall be shown by footnote or by supplemental schedule (i) the amounts periodically credited to each class of security holders' accounts from installment payments and (ii) such other amounts periodically credited to accumulate the maturity amount of the certificate. Such information shall be stated on a $1,000 face-amount certificate basis for the term of the certificate.
§ 210.12-27
Qualified assets on deposit.
1
Column A—Name of depositary
2
Column B—Cash
Column C—Investments in securities
Column D—First mortgages and other first liens on real estate
Column E—Other
Column F—Total
3
1
All money columns shall be totaled.
2
Classify names of individual depositaries under group headings, such as banks and states.
3
Total of column F shall agree with note required by § 210.6-06(4) as to total amount of qualified Assets on Deposit.
[59 FR 65637, Dec. 20, 1994, as amended at 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]

# for certain real estate companies
§ 210.12-28
Real estate and accumulated depreciation.
1
[For Certain Real Estate Companies]
Column A—Description
2
Column B—Encumbrances
Column C—Initial cost to company
Land
Buildings and improvements
Column D—Cost capitalized subsequent to acquisition
Improvements
Carrying costs
Column E—Gross amount of which carried at close of period
3 4 5 6 7
Land
Buildings and improvements
Total
Column F—Accumulated depreciation
Column G—Date of construction
Column H—Date acquired
Column I—Life on which depreciation in latest statements of comprehensive income is computed
1
All money columns shall be totaled.
2
The description for each property should include type of property (e.g., unimproved land, shopping center, garden apartments, etc.) and the geographical location.
3
The required information is to be given as to each individual investment included in column E except that an amount not exceeding 5 percent of the total of column E may be listed in one amount as “miscellaneous investments.”
4
In a note to this schedule, furnish a reconciliation, in the following form, of the total amount at which real estate was carried at the beginning of each period for which statements of comprehensive income are required, with the total amount shown in column E:
Balance at beginning of period
$
Additions during period:
Acquisitions through foreclosure
$
Other acquisitions
Improvements, etc
Other (describe)
$
Deductions during period:
Cost of real estate sold
$
Other (describe)
Balance at close of period
$
If additions, except acquisitions through foreclosure, represent other than cash expenditures, explain. If any of the changes during the period result from transactions, directly or indirectly with affiliates, explain the bases of such transactions and state the amounts involved.
A similar reconciliation shall be furnished for the accumulated depreciation.
5
If any item of real estate investments has been written down or reserved against, describe the item and explain the basis for the write-down or reserve.
6
State in a note to column E the aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes.
7
The amount of all intercompany profits included in the total of column E shall be stated if material.
[38 FR 6068, Mar. 6, 1983. Redesignated at 45 FR 63630, Sept. 25, 1980; 83 FR 50208, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 210.12-29
Mortgage loans on real estate.
1
[For Certain Real Estate Companies]
Column A—Description
2 3 4
Column B—Interest rate
Column C—Final maturity date
Column D—Periodic payment terms
5
Column E—Prior liens
Column F—Face amount of mortgages
Column G—Carrying amount of mortgages
3 6 7 8 9
Column H—Principal amount of loans subject to delinquent principal or interest
10
1
All money columns shall be totaled.
2
The required information is to be given for each individual mortgage loan which exceeds three percent of the total of column G.
3
If the portfolio includes large numbers of mortgages most of which are less than three percent of column G, the mortgages not required to be reported separately should be grouped by classifications that will indicate the dispersion of the portfolio,
i.e.
, for a portfolio of mortgages on single family residential housing. The description should also include number of loans by original loan amounts (e.g., over $100,000, $50,000-$99,999, $20,000-$49,000, under $20,000) and type loan (e.g., VA, FHA, Conventional). Interest rates and maturity dates may be stated in terms of ranges. Data required by columns D, E and F may be omitted for mortgages not required to be reported individually.
4
Loans should be grouped by categories, e.g., first mortgage, second mortgage, construction loans, etc., and for each loan the type of property, e.g., shopping center, high rise apartments, etc., and its geographic location should be stated.
5
State whether principal and interest is payable at level amount over life to maturity or at varying amounts over life to maturity. State amount of balloon payment at maturity, if any. Also state prepayment penalty terms, if any.
6
In a note to this schedule, furnish a reconciliation, in the following form, of the carrying amount of mortgage loans at the beginning of each period for which statements of comprehensive income are required, with the total amount shown in column G:
Balance at beginning of period
$
Additions during period:
New mortgage loans
$
Other (describe)
$
Deductions during period:
Collections of principal
$
Foreclosures
Cost of mortgages sold
Amortization of premium
Other (describe)
Balance at close of period
$
If additions represent other than cash expenditures, explain. If any of the changes during the period result from transactions, directly or indirectly with affiliates, explain the bases of such transactions, and state the amounts involved. State the aggregate mortgages (a) renewed and (b) extended. If the carrying amount of new mortgages is in excess of the unpaid amount of the extended mortgages, explain.
7
If any item of mortgage loans on real estate investments has been written down or reserved against, describe the item and explain the basis for the write-down or reserve.
8
State in a note to column G the aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes.
9
The amount of all intercompany profits in the total of column G shall be stated, if material.
10
(a) Interest in arrears for less than 3 months may be disregarded in computing the total amount of principal subject to delinquent interest.
(b) Of the total principal amount, state the amount acquired from controlled and other affiliates.
[38 FR 6069, Mar. 6, 1973; 38 FR 7323, Mar. 20, 1973. Redesignated at 45 FR 63680, Sept. 25, 1980; 83 FR 50209, Oct. 4, 2018]

# Financial and Non-Financial Disclosures for Certain Securities Registered or Being Registered
§ 210.13-01
Guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities registered or being registered.
(a) For each guaranteed security subject to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and for each guaranteed security the offer and sale of which is being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, for which the registrant is the parent company (as that term is defined in § 210.3-10(b)(1)) of one or more subsidiaries that issue or guarantee the guaranteed security, provide the following disclosures to the extent material:
(1) A description of the issuers and guarantors of the guaranteed security;
(2) A description of the terms and conditions of the guarantees, and how payments to holders of the guaranteed security may be affected by the composition of and relationships among
the issuers, guarantors, and subsidiaries of the parent company that are not issuers or guarantors of the guaranteed security;
(3) A description of other factors that may affect payments to holders of the guaranteed security, such as contractual or statutory restrictions on dividends, guarantee enforceability, or the rights of a noncontrolling interest holder;
(4) Summarized financial information as specified in § 210.1-02(bb)(1) of each issuer and guarantor of the guaranteed security as follows, with an accompanying note that briefly describes the basis of presentation:
(i) The summarized financial information of each such issuer and guarantor consolidated in the parent company's consolidated financial statements may be presented on a combined basis with the summarized financial information of the parent company;
(ii) Intercompany balances and transactions between issuers and guarantors whose summarized financial information is presented on a combined basis shall be eliminated;
(iii) The summarized financial information shall exclude subsidiaries that are not issuers or guarantors. An issuer's or guarantor's investment in a subsidiary that is not an issuer or guarantor shall not be presented. An issuer's or guarantor's amounts due from, amounts due to, and transactions with any of the following shall be presented in separate line items:
(A) Subsidiaries that are not issuers or guarantors; and
(B) Related parties;
(iv) If the information provided in response to the requirements of this section (
e.g.,
factors that may affect payments to holders of the guaranteed security) is applicable to one or more, but not all, issuers and/or guarantors, separately disclose the summarized financial information applicable to those issuers and/or guarantors. In limited circumstances (
i.e.,
where the separate financial information applicable to those issuers and/or guarantors can be easily explained and understood), narrative disclosure may be provided in lieu of the separate summarized financial information otherwise required by this paragraph (a)(4)(iv);
(v) Disclose this summarized financial information as of and for the most recently ended fiscal year and year-to-date interim period included in the parent company's consolidated financial statements; and
(vi) Notwithstanding that a parent company may omit this summarized financial information if not material, it may also be omitted if one of the following in paragraphs (a)(4)(vi)(A) through (D) of this section is true and disclosed. However, paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(A) does not apply if separate disclosure of summarized financial information applicable to one or more, but not all, issuers and/or guarantors is required by paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section. For the purposes of this section, a finance subsidiary is a subsidiary that has no assets or operations other than those related to the issuance, administration and repayment of the security being registered and any other securities guaranteed by its parent company:
(A) The assets, liabilities and results of operations of the combined issuers and guarantors of the guaranteed security are not materially different than corresponding amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements of the parent company;
(B) The combined issuers and guarantors, excluding investments in subsidiaries that are not issuers or guarantors, have no material assets, liabilities or results of operations;
(C) The issuer is a finance subsidiary of the parent company, the parent company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the security, and no other subsidiary of the parent company guarantees the security; or
(D) The issuer is a finance subsidiary that co-issued the security, jointly and severally, with the parent company, and no other subsidiary of the parent company guarantees the security;
(5) In a Securities Act registration statement filed in connection with the offer and sale of the guaranteed security, if the parent company acquired a significant business after the date of the parent company's most recent balance sheet included in its consolidated financial statements and the acquired business, one or more of the acquired business's subsidiaries, or the acquired
business and one or more of its subsidiaries are issuers or guarantors of the guaranteed securities, disclose pre-acquisition summarized financial information as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section for each such issuer or guarantor. The acquired business is significant if it meets any of the conditions specified in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein, based on a comparison of the most recent annual financial statements of the acquired business and the parent company's most recent annual consolidated financial statements filed at or prior to the date of acquisition. The determination of whether a business has been acquired shall be made in accordance with the guidance set forth in § 210.11-01(d). Acquisitions of a group of related businesses shall be treated as if they are a single business acquisition for purposes of this comparison. The determination of whether a group of businesses are related shall be made in a manner consistent with § 210.3-05(a)(3);
(6) Any financial and narrative information about each guarantor if the information would be material for investors to evaluate the sufficiency of the guarantee; and
(7) Sufficient information so as to make the financial and non-financial information presented not misleading.
(b) The parent company may elect to provide the disclosures required by this section in a footnote to its consolidated financial statements or alternatively, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations described in § 229.303 (Item 303 of Regulation S-K) of this chapter. If not otherwise included in the consolidated financial statements or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the parent company must include the disclosures in its prospectus immediately following “Risk Factors,” if any, or otherwise, immediately following pricing information described in § 229.105 (Item 105 of Regulation S-K) of this chapter.
[85 FR 22000, Apr. 20, 2020]
§ 210.13-02
Affiliates whose securities collateralize securities registered or being registered.
The requirements of this section shall apply to each security registered or being registered that is issued on or after January 4, 2021, and to each registered security issued and outstanding before January 4, 2021, for which the registrant had prior to that date provided the financial statements specified in § 210.3-16.
(a) For each security subject to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and for each security the offer and sale of which is being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, that is collateralized by a security of the registrant's affiliate or affiliates, provide the following disclosures to the extent material:
(1) A description of the securities pledged as collateral and the affiliates whose securities are pledged as collateral;
(2) A description of the terms and conditions of the collateral arrangement, including the events or circumstances that would require delivery of the collateral;
(3) A description of the trading market for the affiliate's security pledged as collateral or a statement that there is no market;
(4) Summarized financial information as specified in § 210.1-02(bb)(1) of each affiliate whose securities are pledged as collateral as follows, with an accompanying note that briefly describes the basis of presentation:
(i) The summarized financial information of each such affiliate consolidated in the registrant's financial statements may be presented on a combined basis;
(ii) Intercompany balances and transactions between affiliates whose summarized financial information is presented on a combined basis shall be eliminated;
(iii) An affiliate's amounts due from, amounts due to, and transactions with any of the following shall be presented in separate line items:
(A) The registrant;
(B) Any of the registrant's subsidiaries not included in the summarized financial information of the affiliate(s); and
(C) Related parties;
(iv) If the information provided in response to the requirements of this section (
e.g.,
the trading market for the affiliate's security pledged as collateral or a statement that there is no market) is applicable to one or more, but not all, affiliates, separately disclose the summarized financial information applicable to those affiliates. In limited circumstances (
i.e.,
where the separate financial information applicable to those affiliates can be easily explained and understood), narrative disclosure may be provided in lieu of the separate summarized financial information otherwise required by this paragraph (a)(4)(iv);
(v) Disclose this summarized financial information as of and for the most recently ended fiscal year and year-to-date interim period included in the registrant's consolidated financial statements; and
(vi) Notwithstanding that a registrant may omit this summarized financial information if not material, it may also be omitted if one of the following in paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(A) or (B) of this section is true and disclosed. However, paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(A) does not apply if separate disclosure of summarized financial information applicable to one or more, but not all, affiliates is required by paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section:
(A) The assets, liabilities and results of operations of the combined affiliates whose securities are pledged as collateral are not materially different than the corresponding amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements of the registrant; or
(B) The combined affiliates whose securities are pledged as collateral have no material assets, liabilities or results of operations;
(5) In a Securities Act registration statement filed in connection with the offer and sale of the collateralized security, if the registrant acquired a significant business after the date of the registrant's most recent balance sheet included in its consolidated financial statements and the acquired business, one or more of the acquired business's subsidiaries, or the acquired business and one or more of its subsidiaries are affiliates whose securities collateralize the registrant's collateralized security, disclose pre-acquisition summarized financial information as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section for each such affiliate. The acquired business is significant if it meets any of the conditions specified in the definition of significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02(w), substituting 20 percent for 10 percent each place it appears therein, based on a comparison of the most recent annual financial statements of the acquired business and the registrant's most recent annual consolidated financial statements filed at or prior to the date of acquisition. The determination of whether a business has been acquired shall be made in accordance with the guidance set forth in § 210.11-01(d). Acquisitions of a group of related businesses shall be treated as if they are a single business acquisition for purposes of this comparison. The determination of whether a group of businesses are related shall be made in a manner consistent with § 210.3-05(a)(3);
(6) Any financial and narrative information about each such affiliate if the information would be material for investors to evaluate the pledge of the affiliate's securities as collateral; and
(7) Sufficient information so as to make the financial and non-financial information presented not misleading.
(b) The registrant may elect to provide the disclosures required by this section in a footnote to its consolidated financial statements or alternatively, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations described in § 229.303 (Item 303 of Regulation S-K) of this chapter. If not otherwise included in the consolidated financial statements or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the registrant must include the disclosures in its prospectus immediately following “Risk Factors,” if any, or otherwise, immediately following pricing information described in § 229.105 (Item 105 of Regulation S-K) of this chapter.
[85 FR 22000, Apr. 20, 2020]

# Article 14 Disclosure of Severe Weather Events and Other Information

# Source:
89 FR 21912, Mar. 28, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 21912, Mar. 28, 2024, a subject group heading and §§ 210.14-01 and 210.14-02 were added, effective May 28, 2024. At 89 FR 25804, Apr. 12, 2024, the effective date was delayed indefinitely..
§ 210.14-01
Instructions related to disclosure of severe weather events and other information.
(a)
General.
A registrant must include disclosure pursuant to § 210.14-02 in any filing that is required to include disclosure pursuant to subpart 229.1500 of this chapter and that also requires the registrant to include its audited financial statements. The disclosure pursuant to § 210.14-02 must be included in a note to the financial statements included in such filing.
(b)
Definitions.
The definitions in § 229.1500 of this chapter (Item 1500 of Regulation S-K) apply to §§ 210.14-01 and 210.14-02 (Article 14) except where otherwise indicated.
(c)
Basis of calculation.
When calculating the financial statement effects in this Article 14, except where otherwise indicated, a registrant must:
(1) Use financial information that is consistent with the scope of its consolidated financial statements included in the filing; and
(2) Apply the same accounting principles that it is required to apply in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements included in the filing.
(d)
Periods to be disclosed.
Disclosure must be provided for the registrant's most recently completed fiscal year, and to the extent previously disclosed or required to be disclosed, for the historical fiscal year(s), for which audited consolidated financial statements are included in the filing.
§ 210.14-02
Disclosures related to severe weather events and other information.
(a)
Contextual information.
Provide contextual information, describing how each specified financial statement effect disclosed under § 210.14-02(b) through (h) was derived, including a description of significant inputs and assumptions used, significant judgments made, other information that is important to understand the financial statement effect and, if applicable, policy decisions made by the registrant to calculate the specified disclosures.
(b)
Disclosure thresholds.
(1) Disclosure of the aggregate amount of expenditures expensed as incurred and losses pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section is required if the aggregate amount of expenditures expensed as incurred and losses equals or exceeds one percent of the absolute value of income or loss before income tax expense or benefit for the relevant fiscal year. Such disclosure is not required, however, if the aggregate amount of expenditures expensed as incurred and losses is less than $100,000 for the relevant fiscal year.
(2) Disclosure of the aggregate amount of capitalized costs and charges incurred pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section is required if the aggregate amount of the absolute value of capitalized costs and charges equals or exceeds one percent of the absolute value of stockholders' equity or deficit at the end of the relevant fiscal year. Such disclosure is not required, however, if the aggregate amount of the absolute value of capitalized costs and charges is less than $500,000 for the relevant fiscal year.
(c)
Expenditures expensed as incurred and losses resulting from severe weather events and other natural conditions.
Disclose the aggregate amount of expenditures expensed as incurred and losses, excluding recoveries, incurred during the fiscal year as a result of severe weather events and other natural conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding, drought, wildfires, extreme temperatures, and sea level rise. For example, a registrant may be required to disclose the amount of expense or loss, as applicable, to restore operations, relocate assets or operations affected by the event or other natural condition, retire affected assets, repair affected assets, recognize impairment loss on affected assets, or otherwise respond to the effect that severe weather events and other natural conditions had on business operations. Disclosure pursuant to this paragraph must separately identify where the expenditures
expensed as incurred and losses are presented in the income statement.
(d)
Capitalized costs and charges resulting from severe weather events and other natural conditions.
Disclose the aggregate amount of capitalized costs and charges, excluding recoveries, incurred during the fiscal year as a result of severe weather events and other natural conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding, drought, wildfires, extreme temperatures, and sea level rise. For example, a registrant may be required to disclose the amount of capitalized costs or charges, as applicable, to restore operations, retire affected assets, replace or repair affected assets, recognize an impairment charge for affected assets, or otherwise respond to the effect that severe weather events and other natural conditions had on business operations. Disclosure pursuant to this paragraph must separately identify where the capitalized costs and charges are presented in the balance sheet.
(e)
Carbon offsets and RECs.
(1) If carbon offsets or RECs have been used as a material component of a registrant's plans to achieve its disclosed climate-related targets or goals, disclose the aggregate amount of carbon offsets and RECs expensed, the aggregate amount of capitalized carbon offsets and RECs recognized, and the aggregate amount of losses incurred on the capitalized carbon offsets and RECs, during the fiscal year. In addition, disclose the beginning and ending balances of the capitalized carbon offsets and RECs for the fiscal year. Disclosure pursuant to this paragraph must separately identify where the expenditures expensed, capitalized costs, and losses are presented in the income statement and the balance sheet.
(2) If a registrant is required to provide disclosure pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then a registrant must state its accounting policy for carbon offsets and RECs as part of the contextual information required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(f)
Recoveries.
If a registrant is required to provide disclosure pursuant to paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, then as part of the contextual information required by paragraph (a) of this section, a registrant must state separately the aggregate amount of any recoveries recognized during the fiscal year as a result of severe weather events and other natural conditions for which capitalized costs, expenditures expensed, charges, or losses are disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section. Disclosure pursuant to this paragraph must separately identify where the recoveries are presented in the income statement and the balance sheet.
(g)
Attribution.
For purposes of providing disclosure pursuant to paragraphs (c), (d), and (f) of this section, a capitalized cost, expenditure expensed, charge, loss, or recovery results from a severe weather event or other natural condition when the event or condition is a significant contributing factor in incurring the capitalized cost, expenditure expensed, charge, loss, or recovery. If an event or condition is a significant contributing factor in incurring a cost, expenditure, charge, loss, or recovery, then the entire amount of such cost, expenditure, charge, loss, or recovery must be included in the disclosure pursuant to paragraphs (c), (d), and (f) of this section.
(h)
Financial estimates and assumptions materially impacted by severe weather events and other natural conditions or disclosed targets or transition plans.
Disclose whether the estimates and assumptions the registrant used to produce the consolidated financial statements were materially impacted by exposures to risks and uncertainties associated with, or known impacts from, severe weather events and other natural conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding, drought, wildfires, extreme temperatures, and sea level rise, or any climate-related targets or transition plans disclosed by the registrant. If yes, provide a qualitative description of how the development of such estimates and assumptions were impacted by such events, conditions, targets, or transition plans.

# Acquisitions of Businesses by a Shell Company (Other Than a Business Combination Related Shell Company)
§ 210.15-01
Acquisitions of businesses by a shell company (other than a business combination related shell company).
(a)
Audit requirements.
The term
audit
(or
examination
), when used in regard to financial statements of an entity that is or will be a predecessor to a shell company (other than a business combination related shell company), means an examination of the financial statements by an independent accountant in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) for the purpose of expressing an opinion thereon. When used in regard to financial statements of an entity that is not a predecessor that are included in a registration statement or proxy statement filed for a combination with an issuer that is a shell company (other than a business combination related shell company), the term means an examination of the financial statements by an independent accountant in accordance with either the standards of the PCAOB or U.S. generally accepted auditing standards (“U.S. GAAS”) as specified or permitted in this part and forms applicable to those entities for the purpose of expressing an opinion thereon. In transactions involving a shell company that is not a SPAC (as defined in § 229.1601(b) of this chapter), the predecessor must be audited by an independent accountant registered with the PCAOB.
(b)
Financial statements.
When a registrant is a shell company (other than a business combination related shell company) and the financial statements of a business that will be combining with such registrant are required in a registration statement or proxy statement, such registrant must file financial statements of the business in accordance with §§ 210.3-01 through 210.3-12 and 210.10-01 (Articles 3 and 10 of Regulation S-X) as if the filing were a Securities Act registration statement for the initial public offering of the business's equity securities. The financial statements of the business may be filed pursuant to §§ 210.8-01 through 210.8-08 (Article 8) when that business would qualify to be a smaller reporting company based on its annual revenues as of the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available, if it were filing a registration statement alone.
(c)
Age of financial statements.
The financial statements of a business that will be acquired by a shell company (other than a business combination related shell company) must comply with the requirements in § 210.3-12 (§ 210.8-08 when that business would qualify to be a smaller reporting company based on its annual revenues as of the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available, if it were filing a registration statement alone) as if the financial statements were included in an initial registration statement in determining the age of financial statements of the business in the registration statement or proxy statement of the registrant.
(d)
Acquisition of a business or real estate operation by a predecessor.
Registrants must apply § 210.3-05 (§ 210.8-04 when the predecessor would qualify to be a smaller reporting company based on its annual revenues as of the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available if it were filing a registration statement alone) or § 210.3-14 (§ 210.8-06 when the predecessor would qualify to be a smaller reporting company based on its annual revenues as of the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available if it were filing a registration statement alone) to acquisitions of a business or real estate operation, respectively, by a predecessor.
(1) See § 210.1-02(w)(1) for rules on applying the significance tests to acquisitions of a business or real estate operation that is not or will not be the predecessor.
(2) When the financial statements of a recently acquired business or real estate operation that is not or will not be the predecessor are omitted from a registration statement or proxy statement pursuant to § 210.3-05(b)(4)(i) (Rule 3-05(b)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X) or § 210.3-14(b)(3)(i) (Rule 3-14(b)(3)(i) of Regulation S-X), those financial statements
must be filed in a Form 8-K by the later of the filing of the Form 8-K filed pursuant to Item 2.01(f) of Form 8-K or 75 days after consummation of the acquisition.
(e)
Financial statements of shell company.
After a shell company registrant (other than a business combination related shell company) acquires a business that is its predecessor, the financial statements of the shell company for periods prior to consummation of the acquisition are not required to be included in any filing once the financial statements of the predecessor have been filed for all required periods through the acquisition date and the financial statements of the registrant include the period in which the acquisition was consummated. If a registrant is to acquire or has acquired a shell company (other than a business combination related shell company), the financial statements of the shell company are required to be included in any filing that requires the registrant's financial statements, as if the shell company were the registrant for the filing, unless the financial statements of the registrant include the period in which the acquisition of the shell company was consummated.
[89 FR 14314, Feb. 26, 2024]
Pt. 211

# PART 211—INTERPRETATIONS RELATING TO FINANCIAL REPORTING MATTERS

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77g, 15 U.S.C. 77s(a), 15 U.S.C. 77aa(25) and (26), 15 U.S.C. 78c(b), 15 U.S.C. 78
l
(b), 15 U.S.C. 78m(b), 15 U.S.C. 80a-8, 15 U.S.C. 80a-29(e), 15 U.S.C. 80a-30, and 15 U.S.C. 80a-37.

# Subpart A—Financial Reporting Releases
Subject
Release No.
Date
Fed. Reg. Vol. and page
Codification of financial reporting policies
1
Apr. 15, 1982
47 FR 21030
Disclosure considerations relating to foreign operations and foreign currency translation effects
6
Nov. 18, 1982
47 FR 53330
Accounting for extinguishment of debt
15
Dec. 22, 1983
49 FR 54
Certification of financial statements
16
Feb. 15, 1984
49 FR 6707
Independence of accountants
291
Apr. 10, 1981
46 FR 22569
Last-In, First-Out method of accounting for inventories
889
July 2, 1981
46 FR 36127
Significance of oral guarantees to the financial reporting process
22
Dec. 19, 1985
50 FR 51671
Disclosure of the effects of the Tax Reform Act of 1986
26
Oct. 30, 1986
51 FR 39652
Accounting for loan losses by registrants engaged in lending activities
28
Dec. 1, 1986
51 FR 44446
Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure Obligations of Companies Affected by the Government's Defense Contract Procurement Inquiry and Related Issues
32
Aug. 1, 1988
53 FR 29226
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Certain Investment Company Disclosures
36
May 18, 1989
54 FR 22427
Acceptability in financial statements of an accounting standard permitting the return of a nonaccrual loan to accrual status after a partial charge-off
37
July 29, 1991
56 FR 37000
Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure Obligations of Municipal Securities Issuers and Others
42
Mar. 9, 1994
59 FR 12758
Interpretation Regarding Substantive Repossession of Collateral
28A
May 12, 1994
59 FR 26109
Financial Statements and Periodic Reports For Related Issuers and Guarantors, Appendices A, B and C
55
Aug. 4, 2000
65 FR 51710
Bookkeeping Services Provided by Auditors to Audit Clients in Emergency or Other Unusual Situations
57
Sept. 14, 2001
66 FR 48336
Calculation of Average Weekly Trading Volume
58A
Sept. 27, 2001
66 FR 49274
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
72
Dec. 19, 2003
68 FR 75065
Commission Guidance Regarding the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing and Related Professional Practice Standard No. 1
73
May 20, 2004
69 FR 29066
Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting
78
Dec. 31, 2008
74 FR 2192
Technical Amendments to Rules, Forms, Schedules and Codification of Financial Reporting Policies
79
Apr. 15, 2009
74 FR 18617
Commission Guidance Regarding the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Codification
80A
Aug. 18, 2009
74 FR 42773
Commission Guidance Regarding Disclosure Related to Climate Change
82
Feb. 2, 2010
75 FR 6297
Commission Guidance on Presentation of Liquidity and Capital Resources Disclosures in Management's Discussion and Analysis
83
Sept. 17, 2010
75 FR 59896
Commission Guidance on Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
87
January 30, 2020
85 FR 10570

# Subpart B—Staff Accounting Bulletins
Subject
Release No.
Date
Fed. Reg. Vol. and page
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 39
SAB-39
Oct. 15, 1980
45 FR 68388
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 40
SAB-40
Feb. 9, 1981
46 FR 11513
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 41
SAB-41
Feb. 18, 1981
46 FR 12698
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 42
SAB-42
Dec. 23, 1981
46 FR 63252
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 43
SAB-43
Jan. 5, 1982
47 FR 1266
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 44
SAB-44
Mar. 3, 1982
47 FR 10789
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 45
SAB-45
May 20, 1982
47 FR 23915
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 46
SAB-46
May 20, 1982
47 FR 23916
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 47
SAB-47
Sept. 16, 1982
47 FR 41727
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 48
SAB-48
Sept. 27, 1982
47 FR 43673
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 47A
SAB-47A
Sept. 29, 1982
47 FR 44722
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 49
SAB-49
Oct. 26, 1982
47 FR 49628
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 49A
SAB-49A
Jan. 18, 1983
48 FR 3585
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 50
SAB-50
Mar. 3, 1983
48 FR 10043
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 51
SAB-51
Mar. 29, 1983
48 FR 14595
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 52
SAB-52
May 16, 1983
48 FR 23173
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 53 [Reserved]
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 54
SAB-54
Nov. 3, 1983
48 FR 51769
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 55
SAB-55
Nov. 30, 1983
48 FR 54811
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 56
SAB-56
Jan. 1, 1984
49 FR 4936
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 58
SAB-58
Mar. 19, 1985
50 FR 11657
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 59
SAB-59
Sept. 13, 1985
50 FR 37346
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 60
SAB-60
Dec. 27, 1985
50 FR 52916
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 42A
SAB-42A
Jan. 8, 1986
51 FR 739
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 61
SAB-61
May 6, 1986
51 FR 17331
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 62
SAB-62
July 7, 1986
51 FR 25194
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 63
SAB-63
Sept. 24, 1986
51 FR 33886
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 64
SAB-64
Oct. 8, 1986
51 FR 36007
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 65
SAB-65
Nov. 13, 1986
51 FR 41080
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 66
SAB-66
Nov. 25, 1986
51 FR 43594
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 67
SAB-67
Dec. 8, 1986
51 FR 45314
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 68
SAB-68
May 4, 1987
52 FR 17396
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 69
SAB-69
May 8, 1987
52 FR 18200
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 70
SAB-70
June 5, 1987
52 FR 21933
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 71
SAB-71
Aug. 12, 1987
52 FR 31027
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 72
SAB-72
Nov. 10, 1987
52 FR 46454
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 71A
SAB-71A
Dec. 15, 1987
52 FR 48193
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 73
SAB-73
Dec. 30, 1987
53 FR 109
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 74
SAB-74
Dec. 30, 1987
53 FR 110
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 75
SAB-75
Jan. 4, 1988
53 FR 865
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 76
SAB-76
Jan. 12, 1988
53 FR 1341
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 77
SAB-77
Mar. 4, 1988
53 FR 7892
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 78
SAB-78
Aug. 25, 1988
53 FR 33454
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 79
SAB-79
Sept. 2, 1988
53 FR 34715
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 80
SAB-80
Nov. 21, 1988
53 FR 47801
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 81
SAB-81
Apr. 4, 1989
54 FR 14073
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 82
SAB-82
July 5, 1989
54 FR 29333
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 83
SAB-83
July 31, 1989
54 FR 32333
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 84
SAB-84
July 31, 1989
54 FR 32334
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 85
SAB-85
Sept. 18, 1989
54 FR 39351
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 86
SAB-86
Sept. 28, 1989
54 FR 41084
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 87
SAB-87
Dec. 12, 1989
54 FR 51880
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 88
SAB-88
Aug. 10, 1990
55 FR 33284
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 89
SAB-89
Jan. 7, 1991
56 FR 951
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 90
SAB-90
Jan. 31, 1991
56 FR 4939
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 91
SAB-91
July 17, 1991
56 FR 33376
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 92
SAB-92
June 14, 1993
58 FR 32843
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 93
SAB-93
Nov. 9, 1993
58 FR 59361
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 94
SAB-94
Apr. 24, 1995
60 FR 20022
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 95
SAB-95
Dec. 21, 1995
60 FR 66072
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 96
SAB-96
Mar. 25, 1996
61 FR 12020
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 97
SAB-97
Aug. 6, 1996
61 FR 40721
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 98
SAB-98
Feb. 9, 1998
63 FR 6474
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99
SAB-99
Aug. 19, 1999
64 FR 45150
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100
SAB-100
Dec. 1, 1999
64 FR 67154
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
SAB-101
Dec. 9, 1999
64 FR 68936
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 102
SAB-102
July 6, 2001
66 FR 36457
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 103
SAB-103
May 16, 2003
68 FR 26840
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104
SAB-104
Dec. 23, 2003
68 FR 74436
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105
SAB-105
Mar. 15, 2004
69 FR 12067
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 106
SAB-106
Oct. 4, 2004
69 FR 59130
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107
SAB-107
Apr. 1, 2005
70 FR 16694
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108
SAB-108
Sept. 18, 2006
71 FR 54580
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 109
SAB-109
Nov. 9, 2007
72 FR 63484
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 110
SAB-110
Dec. 31, 2007
72 FR 74168
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 111
SAB-111
Apr. 17, 2009
74 FR 17769
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 112
SAB-112
June 10, 2009
74 FR 27427
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 113
SAB-113
Nov. 4, 2009
74 FR 57063
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 114
SAB-114
Mar. 28, 2011
76 FR 17192
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 115
SAB-115
Nov. 21, 2014
79 FR 69373
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 116
SAB-116
Aug. 29, 2017
82 FR 41146
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 117
SAB-117
Jan. 11, 2018
83 FR 1295
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 119
SAB119
11/25/2019
84 FR 64734
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 120
SAB120
Dec. 1, 2021
86 FR 68111
Publication of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 122
SAB 122
January 30, 2025
90 FR 8492

# Subpart C—Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases
Subject
Release No.
Date
Fed. Reg. vol. and page
Index of Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases
1
Apr. 15, 1982
47 FR 21030
Pt. 227

# PART 227—REGULATION CROWDFUNDING, GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
227.100
Crowdfunding exemption and requirements.

# Subpart B—Requirements for Issuers
227.201
Disclosure requirements.
227.202
Ongoing reporting requirements.
227.203
Filing requirements and form.
227.204
Advertising.
227.205
Promoter compensation.
227.206
Solicitations of interest and other communications.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Intermediaries
227.300
Intermediaries.
227.301
Measures to reduce risk of fraud.
227.302
Account opening.
227.303
Requirements with respect to transactions.
227.304
Completion of offerings, cancellations and reconfirmations.
227.305
Payments to third parties.

# Subpart D—Funding Portal Regulation
227.400
Registration of funding portals.
227.401
Exemption.
227.402
Conditional safe harbor.
227.403
Compliance.
227.404
Records to be made and kept by funding portals.

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous Provisions
227.501
Restrictions on resales.
227.502
Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of this part (Regulation Crowdfunding).
227.503
Disqualification provisions.
227.504
Definition of “qualified purchaser”.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77d, 77d-1, 77s, 77z-3, 78c, 78o, 78q, 78w, 78mm, and Pub. L. 112-106, secs. 301-305, 126 Stat. 306 (2012).

# Source:
80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 227.100
Crowdfunding exemption and requirements.
(a)
Exemption.
An issuer may offer or sell securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), provided that:
(1) The aggregate amount of securities sold to all investors by the issuer in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) during the 12-month period preceding the date of such offer or sale, including the securities offered in such transaction, shall not exceed $5,000,000;
(2) Where the purchaser is not an accredited investor (as defined in Rule 501 (§ 230.501 of this chapter)), the aggregate amount of securities sold to such an investor across all issuers in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities
Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) during the 12-month period preceding the date of such transaction, including the securities sold to such investor in such transaction, shall not exceed:
(i) The greater of $2,500, or 5 percent of the greater of the investor's annual income or net worth, if either the investor's annual income or net worth is less than $124,000; or
(ii) Ten percent of the greater of the investor's annual income or net worth, not to exceed an amount sold of $124,000, if both the investor's annual income and net worth are equal to or more than $124,000;
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(2).
To determine the investment limit for a natural person, the person's annual income and net worth shall be calculated as those values are calculated for purposes of determining accredited investor status in accordance with § 230.501 of this chapter.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a)(2).
A person's annual income and net worth may be calculated jointly with that person's spouse; however, when such a joint calculation is used, the aggregate investment of the investor spouses may not exceed the limit that would apply to an individual investor at that income or net worth level.
Instruction 3 to paragraph (a)(2).
An issuer offering and selling securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) may rely on the efforts of an intermediary required by § 227.303(b) to ensure that the aggregate amount of securities purchased by an investor in offerings pursuant to section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act will not cause the investor to exceed the limit set forth in section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act and § 227.100(a)(2),
provided that
the issuer does not know that the investor has exceeded the investor limits or would exceed the investor limits as a result of purchasing securities in the issuer's offering.
(3) The transaction is conducted through an intermediary that complies with the requirements in section 4A(a) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(a)) and the related requirements in this part, and the transaction is conducted exclusively through the intermediary's platform; and
Instruction to paragraph (a)(3).
An issuer shall not conduct an offering or concurrent offerings in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) using more than one intermediary.
(4) The issuer complies with the requirements in section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) and the related requirements in this part;
provided, however,
that the failure to comply with §§ 227.202, 227.203(a)(3) and 227.203(b) shall not prevent an issuer from relying on the exemption provided by section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
(b)
Applicability.
The crowdfunding exemption shall not apply to transactions involving the offer or sale of securities by any issuer that:
(1) Is not organized under, and subject to, the laws of a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia;
(2) Is subject to the requirement to file reports pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d));
(3) Is an investment company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), or is excluded from the definition of investment company by section 3(b) or section 3(c) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(b) or 80a-3(c));
(4) Is not eligible to offer or sell securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) as a result of a disqualification as specified in § 227.503(a);
(5) Has sold securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and has not filed with the Commission and provided to investors, to the extent required, the ongoing annual reports required by this part during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the required offering statement; or
Instruction to paragraph (b)(5).
An issuer delinquent in its ongoing reports can again rely on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) once it has filed with the Commission and provided to investors both of the annual reports required during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the required offering statement.
(6) Has no specific business plan or has indicated that its business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company or companies.
(7) [Reserved]
(c)
Issuer.
For purposes of § 227.201(r), calculating aggregate amounts offered and sold in § 227.100(a) and § 227.201(t), and determining whether an issuer has previously sold securities in § 227.201(t)(3),
issuer
includes all entities controlled by or under common control with the issuer and any predecessors of the issuer.
Instruction to paragraph (c).
The term
control
means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
(d)
Investor.
For purposes of this part, investor means any investor or any potential investor, as the context requires. A crowdfunding vehicle (as defined in § 270.3a-9 of this chapter) is not considered an investor for the purposes of this part.
(e)
Integration with other offerings.
To determine whether offers and sales should be integrated, see § 230.152 of this chapter.
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 17552, Apr. 12, 2017; 85 FR 27131, May 7, 2020; 85 FR 54490, Sept. 2, 2020; 86 FR 3590, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 57398, Sept. 20, 2022]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Issuers
§ 227.201
Disclosure requirements.
An issuer offering or selling securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with section 4A of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part, and any co-issuer jointly offering or selling securities with such an issuer in reliance on the same, must file with the Commission and provide to investors and the relevant intermediary the following information:
(a) The name, legal status (including its form of organization, jurisdiction in which it is organized and date of organization), physical address and Web site of the issuer;
(b) The names of the directors and officers (and any persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) of the issuer, all positions and offices with the issuer held by such persons, the period of time in which such persons served in the position or office and their business experience during the past three years, including:
(1) Each person's principal occupation and employment, including whether any officer is employed by another employer; and
(2) The name and principal business of any corporation or other organization in which such occupation and employment took place.
Instruction to paragraph (b).
For purposes of this paragraph (b), the term
officer
means a president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or principal financial officer, comptroller or principal accounting officer, and any person routinely performing similar functions.
(c) The name of each person, as of the most recent practicable date but no earlier than 120 days prior to the date the offering statement or report is filed, who is a beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power;
(d) A description of the business of the issuer and the anticipated business plan of the issuer;
(e) The current number of employees of the issuer;
(f) A discussion of the material factors that make an investment in the issuer speculative or risky;
(g) The target offering amount and the deadline to reach the target offering amount, including a statement that if the sum of the investment commitments does not equal or exceed the target offering amount at the offering deadline, no securities will be sold in the offering, investment commitments will be cancelled and committed funds will be returned;
(h) Whether the issuer will accept investments in excess of the target offering amount and, if so, the maximum amount that the issuer will accept and how oversubscriptions will be allocated, such as on a pro-rata, first come-first served, or other basis;
(i) A description of the purpose and intended use of the offering proceeds;
Instruction to paragraph (i).
An issuer must provide a reasonably detailed description of any intended use of proceeds, such that investors are provided with enough information to understand how the offering proceeds will be used. If an issuer has identified a range of possible uses, the issuer should identify and describe each probable use and the factors the issuer may consider in allocating proceeds among the potential uses. If the issuer will accept proceeds in excess of the target offering amount, the issuer must describe the purpose, method for allocating oversubscriptions, and intended use of the excess proceeds with similar specificity.
(j) A description of the process to complete the transaction or cancel an investment commitment, including a statement that:
(1) Investors may cancel an investment commitment until 48 hours prior to the deadline identified in the issuer's offering materials;
(2) The intermediary will notify investors when the target offering amount has been met;
(3) If an issuer reaches the target offering amount prior to the deadline identified in its offering materials, it may close the offering early if it provides notice about the new offering deadline at least five business days prior to such new offering deadline (absent a material change that would require an extension of the offering and reconfirmation of the investment commitment); and
(4) If an investor does not cancel an investment commitment before the 48-hour period prior to the offering deadline, the funds will be released to the issuer upon closing of the offering and the investor will receive securities in exchange for his or her investment;
(k) A statement that if an investor does not reconfirm his or her investment commitment after a material change is made to the offering, the investor's investment commitment will be cancelled and the committed funds will be returned;
(l) The price to the public of the securities or the method for determining the price, provided that, prior to any sale of securities, each investor shall be provided in writing the final price and all required disclosures;
(m) A description of the ownership and capital structure of the issuer, including:
(1) The terms of the securities being offered and each other class of security of the issuer, including the number of securities being offered and/or outstanding, whether or not such securities have voting rights, any limitations on such voting rights, how the terms of the securities being offered may be modified and a summary of the differences between such securities and each other class of security of the issuer, and how the rights of the securities being offered may be materially limited, diluted or qualified by the rights of any other class of security of the issuer;
(2) A description of how the exercise of rights held by the principal shareholders of the issuer could affect the purchasers of the securities being offered;
(3) The name and ownership level of each person, as of the most recent practicable date but no earlier than 120 days prior to the date the offering statement or report is filed, who is the beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power;
(4) How the securities being offered are being valued, and examples of methods for how such securities may be valued by the issuer in the future, including during subsequent corporate actions;
(5) The risks to purchasers of the securities relating to minority ownership in the issuer and the risks associated with corporate actions including additional issuances of securities, issuer repurchases of securities, a sale of the issuer or of assets of the issuer or transactions with related parties; and
(6) A description of the restrictions on transfer of the securities, as set forth in § 227.501;
(n) The name, SEC file number and Central Registration Depository (CRD) number (as applicable) of the intermediary through which the offering is being conducted;
(o) A description of the intermediary's financial interests in the issuer's transaction and in the issuer, including:
(1) The amount of compensation to be paid to the intermediary, whether as a dollar amount or a percentage of the offering amount, or a good faith estimate if the exact amount is not available at the time of the filing, for conducting the offering, including the amount of referral and any other fees associated with the offering, and
(2) Any other direct or indirect interest in the issuer held by the intermediary, or any arrangement for the intermediary to acquire such an interest;
(p) A description of the material terms of any indebtedness of the issuer, including the amount, interest rate, maturity date and any other material terms;
(q) A description of exempt offerings conducted within the past three years;
Instruction to paragraph (q).
In providing a description of any prior exempt offerings, disclose:
(1) The date of the offering;
(2) The offering exemption relied upon;
(3) The type of securities offered; and
(4) The amount of securities sold and the use of proceeds;
(r) A description of any transaction since the beginning of the issuer's last fiscal year, or any currently proposed transaction, to which the issuer was or is to be a party and the amount involved exceeds five percent of the aggregate amount of capital raised by the issuer in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) during the preceding 12-month period, inclusive of the amount the issuer seeks to raise in the current offering under section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act, in which any of the following persons had or is to have a direct or indirect material interest:
(1) Any director or officer of the issuer;
(2) Any person who is, as of the most recent practicable date but no earlier than 120 days prior to the date the offering statement or report is filed, the beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power;
(3) If the issuer was incorporated or organized within the past three years, any promoter of the issuer; or
(4) Any member of the family of any of the foregoing persons, which includes a child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse or spousal equivalent, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, and shall include adoptive relationships. The term
spousal equivalent
means a cohabitant occupying a relationship generally equivalent to that of a spouse.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (r).
For each transaction identified, disclose the name of the specified person and state his or her relationship to the issuer, and the nature and, where practicable, the approximate amount of his or her interest in the transaction. The amount of such interest shall be computed without regard to the amount of the profit or loss involved in the transaction. Where it is not practicable to state the approximate amount of the interest, the approximate amount involved in the transaction shall be disclosed.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (r).
For purposes of paragraph (r), a transaction includes, but is not limited to, any financial transaction, arrangement or relationship (including any indebtedness or guarantee of indebtedness) or any series of similar transactions, arrangements or relationships.
(s) A discussion of the issuer's financial condition, including, to the extent material, liquidity, capital resources and historical results of operations;
Instruction 1 to paragraph (s).
The discussion must cover each period for which financial statements of the issuer are provided. An issuer also must include a discussion of any material changes or trends known to management in the financial condition and results of operations of the issuer subsequent to the period for which financial statements are provided.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (s).
For issuers with no prior operating history, the discussion should focus on financial milestones and operational, liquidity and other challenges. For issuers with an operating history, the discussion should focus on whether historical results and cash flows are representative of what investors should expect in the
future. Issuers should take into account the proceeds of the offering and any other known or pending sources of capital. Issuers also should discuss how the proceeds from the offering will affect the issuer's liquidity, whether receiving these funds and any other additional funds is necessary to the viability of the business, and how quickly the issuer anticipates using its available cash. In addition, issuers should describe the other available sources of capital to the business, such as lines of credit or required contributions by shareholders.
Instruction 3 to paragraph (s).
References to the issuer in this paragraph and its instructions refer to the issuer and its predecessors, if any.
(t) For offerings that, together with all other amounts sold under section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) within the preceding 12-month period, have, in the aggregate, the following target offering amounts:
(1) $124,000 or less, the amount of total income, taxable income and total tax, or the equivalent line items, as reported on the federal income tax returns filed by the issuer for the most recently completed year (if any), which shall be certified by the principal executive officer of the issuer to reflect accurately the information reported on the issuer's federal income tax returns, and financial statements of the issuer, which shall be certified by the principal executive officer of the issuer to be true and complete in all material respects. If financial statements of the issuer are available that have either been reviewed or audited by a public accountant that is independent of the issuer, the issuer must provide those financial statements instead and need not include the information reported on the federal income tax returns or the certifications of the principal executive officer;
(2) More than $124,000, but not more than $618,000, financial statements of the issuer reviewed by a public accountant that is independent of the issuer. If financial statements of the issuer are available that have been audited by a public accountant that is independent of the issuer, the issuer must provide those financial statements instead and need not include the reviewed financial statements; and
(3) More than $618,000, financial statements of the issuer audited by a public accountant that is independent of the issuer;
provided, however,
that for issuers that have not previously sold securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), offerings that have a target offering amount of more than $618,000, but not more than $1,235,000, financial statements of the issuer reviewed by a public accountant that is independent of the issuer. If financial statements of the issuer are available that have been audited by a public accountant that is independent of the issuer, the issuer must provide those financial statements instead and need not include the reviewed financial statements.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (t).
To determine the financial statements required under this paragraph (t), an issuer must aggregate amounts sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) within the preceding 12-month period and the offering amount in the offering for which disclosure is being provided. If the issuer will accept proceeds in excess of the target offering amount, the issuer must include the maximum offering amount that the issuer will accept in the calculation to determine the financial statements required under this paragraph (t).
Instruction 2 to paragraph (t).
An issuer may voluntarily meet the requirements of this paragraph (t) for a higher aggregate target offering amount.
Instruction 3 to paragraph (t).
The financial statements must be prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and include balance sheets, statements of comprehensive income, statements of cash flows, statements of changes in stockholders' equity and notes to the financial statements. If the financial statements are not audited, they must be labeled as “unaudited.” The financial statements must cover the two most recently completed fiscal years or the period(s) since inception, if shorter.
Instruction 4 to paragraph (t).
For an offering conducted in the first 120 days
of a fiscal year, the financial statements provided may be for the two fiscal years prior to the issuer's most recently completed fiscal year; however, financial statements for the two most recently completed fiscal years must be provided if they are otherwise available. If more than 120 days have passed since the end of the issuer's most recently completed fiscal year, the financial statements provided must be for the issuer's two most recently completed fiscal years. If the 120th day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, the next business day shall be considered the 120th day for purposes of determining the age of the financial statements.
Instruction 5 to paragraph (t).
An issuer may elect to delay complying with any new or revised financial accounting standard that applies to companies that are not issuers (as defined under section 2(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201(a)) until the date that such companies are required to comply with such new or revised accounting standard. Issuers electing this accommodation must disclose it at the time the issuer files its offering statement and apply the election to all standards. Issuers electing not to use this accommodation must forgo this accommodation for all financial accounting standards and may not elect to rely on this accommodation in any future filings.
Instruction 6 to paragraph (t).
An issuer required to provide information from a tax return under paragraph (t)(1) of this section before filing a tax return with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for the most recently completed fiscal year may provide information from its tax return for the prior year (if any), provided that the issuer provides information from the tax return for the most recently completed fiscal year when it is filed with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (if the tax return is filed during the offering period). An issuer that requested an extension from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service would not be required to provide information from the tax return until the date the return is filed, if filed during the offering period. If an issuer has not yet filed a tax return and is not required to file a tax return before the end of the offering period, then the tax return information does not need to be provided.
Instruction 7 to paragraph (t).
An issuer providing financial statements that are not audited or reviewed and tax information as specified under paragraph (t)(1) of this section must have its principal executive officer provide the following certification:
I, [identify the certifying individual], certify that:
(1) the financial statements of [identify the issuer] included in this Form are true and complete in all material respects; and
(2) the tax return information of [identify the issuer] included in this Form reflects accurately the information reported on the tax return for [identify the issuer] filed for the fiscal year ended [date of most recent tax return].
[Signature and title].
Instruction 8 to paragraph (t).
Financial statement reviews shall be conducted in accordance with the Statements on Standards for Accounting and Review Services issued by the Accounting and Review Services Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. A signed review report must accompany the reviewed financial statements, and an issuer must notify the public accountant of the issuer's intended use of the review report in the offering. An issuer will not be in compliance with the requirement to provide reviewed financial statements if the review report includes modifications.
Instruction 9 to paragraph (t).
Financial statement audits shall be conducted in accordance with either auditing standards issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (referred to as U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards) or the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. A signed audit report must accompany audited financial statements, and an issuer must notify the public accountant of the issuer's intended use of the audit report in the offering. An issuer will not be in compliance with the requirement to provide audited financial statements if the audit report includes
a qualified opinion, an adverse opinion, or a disclaimer of opinion.
Instruction 10 to paragraph (t).
To qualify as a public accountant that is independent of the issuer for purposes of this part, the accountant must satisfy the independence standards of either:
(i) 17 CFR 210.2-01 of this chapter, or
(ii) The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The public accountant that audits or reviews the financial statements provided by an issuer must be:
(A) Duly registered and in good standing as a certified public accountant under the laws of the place of his or her residence or principal office; or
(B) In good standing and entitled to practice as a public accountant under the laws of his or her place of residence or principal office.
Instruction 11 to paragraph (t).
Except as set forth in § 227.100(c), references to the issuer in this paragraph (t) and its instructions (2) through (10) refer to the issuer and its predecessors, if any.
(u) Any matters that would have triggered disqualification under § 227.503(a) but occurred before May 16, 2016. The failure to provide such disclosure shall not prevent an issuer from continuing to rely on the exemption provided by section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) if the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable care, could not have known of the existence of the undisclosed matter or matters;
Instruction to paragraph (u).
An issuer will not be able to establish that it could not have known of a disqualification unless it has made factual inquiry into whether any disqualifications exist. The nature and scope of the factual inquiry will vary based on the facts and circumstances concerning, among other things, the issuer and the other offering participants.
(v) Updates regarding the progress of the issuer in meeting the target offering amount, to be provided in accordance with § 227.203;
(w) Where on the issuer's Web site investors will be able to find the issuer's annual report, and the date by which such report will be available on the issuer's Web site;
(x) Whether the issuer or any of its predecessors previously failed to comply with the ongoing reporting requirements of § 227.202;
(y) Any material information necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and
(z) Any written communication or broadcast script provided in accordance with § 227.206 or, if within 30 days of the initial filing of the offering statement, § 230.241 of this chapter.
(aa) [Reserved]
Instruction to § 227.201.
If disclosure provided pursuant to any paragraph of this section also satisfies the requirements of one or more other paragraphs of this section, it is not necessary to repeat the disclosure. Instead of repeating information, an issuer may include a cross-reference to disclosure contained elsewhere in the offering statement or report, including to information in the financial statements.
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 17552, Apr. 12, 2017; 85 FR 27131, May 7, 2020; 85 FR 54490, Sept. 2, 2020; 86 FR 3590, 3591, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 57398, Sept. 20, 2022]
§ 227.202
Ongoing reporting requirements.
(a) An issuer that has offered and sold securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with section 4A of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part must file with the Commission and post on the issuer's Web site an annual report along with the financial statements of the issuer certified by the principal executive officer of the issuer to be true and complete in all material respects and a description of the financial condition of the issuer as described in § 227.201(s). If, however, an issuer has available financial statements that have either been reviewed or audited by a public accountant that is independent of the issuer, those financial statements must be provided and the certification by the principal executive officer will not be required. The annual report also must include the disclosure required by paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (m), (p), (q), (r), and (x) of § 227.201. The report must be filed in accordance with the
requirements of § 227.203 and Form C (§ 239.900 of this chapter) and no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a).
Instructions (3), (8), (9), (10), and (11) to paragraph (t) of § 227.201 shall apply for purposes of this section.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a).
An issuer providing financial statements that are not audited or reviewed must have its principal executive officer provide the following certification:
I, [identify the certifying individual], certify that the financial statements of [identify the issuer] included in this Form are true and complete in all material respects.
[Signature and title].
(b) An issuer must continue to comply with the ongoing reporting requirements until one of the following occurs:
(1) The issuer is required to file reports under section 13(a) or section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d));
(2) The issuer has filed, since its most recent sale of securities pursuant to this part, at least one annual report pursuant to this section and has fewer than 300 holders of record;
(3) The issuer has filed, since its most recent sale of securities pursuant to this part, the annual reports required pursuant to this section for at least the three most recent years and has total assets that do not exceed $10,000,000;
(4) The issuer or another party repurchases all of the securities issued in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), including any payment in full of debt securities or any complete redemption of redeemable securities; or
(5) The issuer liquidates or dissolves its business in accordance with state law.
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 45725, Oct. 2, 2017; 83 FR 47836, Sept. 21, 2018; 83 FR 52964, Oct. 19, 2018; 85 FR 17751, Mar. 31, 2020]
§ 227.203
Filing requirements and form.
(a)
Form C—Offering statement and amendments
(§ 239.900 of this chapter).
(1)
Offering statement.
Except as allowed by § 227.206, an issuer offering or selling securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with section 4A of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part, and any co-issuer jointly offering or selling securities with such an issuer in reliance on the same, must file with the Commission and provide to investors and the relevant intermediary a Form C: Offering Statement (Form C) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) prior to the commencement of the offering of securities. An issuer that is both offering or selling securities with a co-issuer and separately offering or selling securities on its own must file with the Commission and provide to investors and the relevant intermediary a separate Form C for such offering. Every Form C must include the information required by § 227.201.
(2)
Amendments to offering statement.
An issuer must file with the Commission and provide to investors and the relevant intermediary an amendment to the offering statement filed on Form C (§ 239.900 of this chapter) to disclose any material changes, additions or updates to information that it provides to investors through the intermediary's platform, for any offering that has not yet been completed or terminated. The amendment must be filed on Form C: Amendment (Form C/A) (§ 239.900 of this chapter), and if the amendment reflects material changes, additions or updates, the issuer shall check the box indicating that investors must reconfirm an investment commitment within five business days or the investor's commitment will be considered cancelled.
(3)
Progress updates.
(i) An issuer must file with the Commission and provide to investors and the relevant intermediary a Form C: Progress Update (Form C-U) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) to disclose its progress in meeting the target offering amount no later than five business days after each of the dates when the issuer reaches 50 percent and 100 percent of the target offering amount.
(ii) If the issuer will accept proceeds in excess of the target offering amount, the issuer must file with the Commission and provide to investors and the relevant intermediary, no later than
five business days after the offering deadline, a final Form C-U (§ 239.900 of this chapter) to disclose the total amount of securities sold in the offering.
(iii) The requirements of paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not apply to an issuer if the relevant intermediary makes publicly available on the intermediary's platform frequent updates regarding the progress of the issuer in meeting the target offering amount; however, the issuer must still file a Form C-U (§ 239.900 of this chapter) to disclose the total amount of securities sold in the offering no later than five business days after the offering deadline.
Instruction to paragraph (a)(3).
If multiple Forms C-U (§ 239.900 of this chapter) are triggered within the same five business day period, the issuer may consolidate such progress updates into one Form C-U, so long as the Form C-U discloses the most recent threshold that was met and the Form C-U is filed with the Commission and provided to investors and the relevant intermediary by the day on which the first progress update is due.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a).
An issuer would satisfy the requirement to provide to the relevant intermediary the information required by this paragraph (a) if it provides to the relevant intermediary a copy of the disclosures filed with the Commission.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a).
An issuer would satisfy the requirement to provide to investors the information required by this paragraph (a) if the issuer refers investors to the information on the intermediary's platform by means of a posting on the issuer's Web site or by email.
(b)
Form C: Annual report and termination of reporting
(§ 239.900 of this chapter). (1)
Annual reports.
An issuer that has sold securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with section 4A of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part must file an annual report on Form C: Annual Report (Form C-AR) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) with the Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report. The annual report shall include the information required by § 227.202(a).
(2)
Amendments to annual report.
An issuer must file with the Commission an amendment to the annual report filed on Form C: Annual Report (Form C-AR) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) to make a material change to the previously filed annual report as soon as practicable after discovery of the need for the material change. The amendment must be filed on Form C: Amendment to Annual Report (Form C-AR/A) (§ 239.900 of this chapter).
(3)
Termination of reporting.
An issuer eligible to terminate its obligation to file annual reports with the Commission pursuant to § 227.202(b) must file with the Commission, within five business days from the date on which the issuer becomes eligible to terminate its reporting obligation, Form C: Termination of Reporting (Form C-TR) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) to advise investors that the issuer will cease reporting pursuant to this part.
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 3591, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 227.204
Advertising.
(a)(1) An issuer may not, directly or indirectly, advertise the terms of an offering made in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), except for oral or written communications that meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section or of § 227.206.
(2)
Instruction to paragraph (a).
For purposes of this paragraph (a), issuer includes persons acting on behalf of the issuer.
(b) A notice may advertise any of the terms of an issuer's offering made in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) if it directs investors to the intermediary's platform and includes no more than the following information:
(1) A statement that the issuer is conducting an offering pursuant to section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), the name of the intermediary through which the offering is being conducted, and information (including a link in any written communications) directing the potential investor to the intermediary's platform;
(2) The terms of the offering; and
(3) Factual information about the legal identity and business location of the issuer, limited to the name of the issuer of the security, the address, phone number and Web site of the issuer, the email address of a representative of the issuer and a brief description of the business of the issuer.
(c) Notwithstanding the prohibition on advertising any of the terms of the offering, an issuer, and persons acting on behalf of the issuer, may communicate with investors and potential investors about the terms of the offering through communication channels provided by the intermediary on the intermediary's platform, provided that an issuer identifies itself as the issuer in all communications. Persons acting on behalf of the issuer must identify their affiliation with the issuer in all communications on the intermediary's platform.
(d) Notwithstanding the requirement that a notice advertising any of the terms of an issuer's offering made in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) include no more than the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section, an issuer conducting an offering in reliance on Regulation Crowdfunding concurrently with another offering that discloses the terms of the Regulation Crowdfunding offering in the disclosure document for the other offering will not be deemed to have exceeded these disclosure limitations if the disclosure document for the other offering satisfies all the other requirements of this section. If the disclosure document for the other offering is filed on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System (EDGAR), the link required by paragraph (b)(1) may not be a live hyperlink.
(e)
Instruction to § 227.204.
For purposes of this section, terms of the offering means the amount of securities offered, the nature of the securities, the price of the securities, the closing date of the offering period, the planned use of proceeds and the issuer's progress toward meeting its funding target.
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 3592, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 227.205
Promoter compensation.
(a) An issuer, or person acting on behalf of the issuer, shall be permitted to compensate or commit to compensate, directly or indirectly, any person to promote the issuer's offerings made in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through communication channels provided by an intermediary on the intermediary's platform, but only if the issuer or person acting on behalf of the issuer, takes reasonable steps to ensure that the person promoting the offering clearly discloses the receipt, past or prospective, of such compensation with any such communication.
Instruction to paragraph (a).
The disclosure required by this paragraph is required, with each communication, for persons engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer through the communication channels provided by the intermediary, regardless of whether or not the compensation they receive is specifically for the promotional activities. This includes persons hired specifically to promote the offering as well as to persons who are otherwise employed by the issuer or who undertake promotional activities on behalf of the issuer.
(b) Other than as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, an issuer or person acting on behalf of the issuer shall not compensate or commit to compensate, directly or indirectly, any person to promote the issuer's offerings made in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), unless such promotion is limited to notices permitted by, and in compliance with, § 227.204.
§ 227.206
Solicitations of interest and other communications.
(a)
Solicitation of interest.
At any time before the filing of an offering statement, an issuer may communicate orally or in writing to determine whether there is any interest in a contemplated securities offering. Such communications are deemed to be an offer of a security for sale for purposes of the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws. No solicitation or acceptance of money or other consideration, nor of any commitment, binding
or otherwise, from any person is permitted until the offering statement is filed.
(b)
Conditions.
The communications must:
(1) State that no money or other consideration is being solicited, and if sent in response, will not be accepted;
(2) State that no offer to buy the securities can be accepted and no part of the purchase price can be received until the offering statement is filed and only through an intermediary's platform; and
(3) State that a person's indication of interest involves no obligation or commitment of any kind.
(c)
Indications of interest.
Any written communication under this section may include a means by which a person may indicate to the issuer that such person is interested in a potential offering. This issuer may require the name, address, telephone number, and/or email address in any response form included pursuant to this paragraph (c).
[86 FR 3592, Jan. 14, 2021]

# Subpart C—Requirements for Intermediaries
§ 227.300
Intermediaries.
(a)
Requirements.
A person acting as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) must:
(1) Be registered with the Commission as a broker under section 15(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)) or as a funding portal in accordance with the requirements of § 227.400; and
(2) Be a member a national securities association registered under section 15A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-3).
(b)
Financial interests.
Any director, officer or partner of an intermediary, or any person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function, may not have a financial interest in an issuer that is offering or selling securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through the intermediary's platform, or receive a financial interest in an issuer as compensation for the services provided to or for the benefit of the issuer in connection with the offer or sale of such securities. An intermediary may not have a financial interest in an issuer that is offering or selling securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through the intermediary's platform unless:
(1) The intermediary receives the financial interest from the issuer as compensation for the services provided to, or for the benefit of, the issuer in connection with the offer or sale of the securities being offered or sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through the intermediary's platform; and
(2) the financial interest consists of securities of the same class and having the same terms, conditions and rights as the securities being offered or sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through the intermediary's platform. For purposes of this paragraph, a
financial interest in an issuer
means a direct or indirect ownership of, or economic interest in, any class of the issuer's securities.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(1)
Associated person of a funding portal
or
person associated with a funding portal
means any partner, officer, director or manager of a funding portal (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by such funding portal, or any employee of a funding portal, except that any person associated with a funding portal whose functions are solely clerical or ministerial shall not be included in the meaning of such term for purposes of section 15(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)) (other than paragraphs (4) and (6) of section 15(b) of the Exchange Act).
(2)
Funding portal
means a broker acting as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), that does not:
(i) Offer investment advice or recommendations;
(ii) Solicit purchases, sales or offers to buy the securities displayed on its platform;
(iii) Compensate employees, agents, or other persons for such solicitation or based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on its platform; or
(iv) Hold, manage, possess, or otherwise handle investor funds or securities.
(3)
Intermediary
means a broker registered under section 15(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)) or a funding portal registered under § 227.400 and includes, where relevant, an associated person of the registered broker or registered funding portal.
(4)
Platform
means a program or application accessible via the Internet or other similar electronic communication medium through which a registered broker or a registered funding portal acts as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
Instruction to paragraph (c)(4).
An intermediary through which a crowdfunding transaction is conducted may engage in back office or other administrative functions other than on the intermediary's platform.
§ 227.301
Measures to reduce risk of fraud.
An intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) must:
(a) Have a reasonable basis for believing that an issuer seeking to offer and sell securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through the intermediary's platform complies with the requirements in section 4A(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) and the related requirements in this part. In satisfying this requirement, an intermediary may rely on the representations of the issuer concerning compliance with these requirements unless the intermediary has reason to question the reliability of those representations;
(b) Have a reasonable basis for believing that the issuer has established means to keep accurate records of the holders of the securities it would offer and sell through the intermediary's platform, provided that an intermediary may rely on the representations of the issuer concerning its means of recordkeeping unless the intermediary has reason to question the reliability of those representations. An intermediary will be deemed to have satisfied this requirement if the issuer has engaged the services of a transfer agent that is registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1(c)).
(c) Deny access to its platform to an issuer if the intermediary:
(1) Has a reasonable basis for believing that the issuer or any of its officers, directors (or any person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) or beneficial owners of 20 percent or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power, is subject to a disqualification under § 227.503. In satisfying this requirement, an intermediary must, at a minimum, conduct a background and securities enforcement regulatory history check on each issuer whose securities are to be offered by the intermediary and on each officer, director or beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power.
(2) Has a reasonable basis for believing that the issuer or the offering presents the potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns about investor protection. In satisfying this requirement, an intermediary must deny access if it reasonably believes that it is unable to adequately or effectively assess the risk of fraud of the issuer or its potential offering. In addition, if an intermediary becomes aware of information after it has granted access that causes it to reasonably believe that the issuer or the offering presents the potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns about investor protection, the intermediary must promptly remove the offering from its platform, cancel the offering, and return (or, for funding portals, direct the return of) any funds that have been committed by investors in the offering.
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 27132, May 7, 2020; 85 FR 54490, Sept. 2, 2020; 86 FR 3592, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 227.302
Account opening.
(a)
Accounts and electronic delivery.
(1) No intermediary or associated person of an intermediary may accept an investment commitment in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) until the investor has opened an account with the intermediary and the intermediary has obtained from the investor consent to electronic delivery of materials.
(2) An intermediary must provide all information that is required to be provided by the intermediary under subpart C of this part (§§ 227.300 through 227.305), including, but not limited to, educational materials, notices and confirmations, through electronic means. Unless otherwise indicated in the relevant rule of subpart C of this part, in satisfying this requirement, an intermediary must provide the information through an electronic message that contains the information, through an electronic message that includes a specific link to the information as posted on intermediary's platform, or through an electronic message that provides notice of what the information is and that it is located on the intermediary's platform or on the issuer's Web site. Electronic messages include, but are not limited to, email, social media messages, instant messages or other electronic media messages.
(b)
Educational materials.
(1) In connection with establishing an account for an investor, an intermediary must deliver educational materials to such investor that explain in plain language and are otherwise designed to communicate effectively and accurately:
(i) The process for the offer, purchase and issuance of securities through the intermediary and the risks associated with purchasing securities offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6));
(ii) The types of securities offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) available for purchase on the intermediary's platform and the risks associated with each type of security, including the risk of having limited voting power as a result of dilution;
(iii) The restrictions on the resale of a security offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6));
(iv) The types of information that an issuer is required to provide under § 227.202, the frequency of the delivery of that information and the possibility that those obligations may terminate in the future;
(v) The limitations on the amounts an investor may invest pursuant to § 227.100(a)(2);
(vi) The limitations on an investor's right to cancel an investment commitment and the circumstances in which an investment commitment may be cancelled by the issuer;
(vii) The need for the investor to consider whether investing in a security offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) is appropriate for that investor;
(viii) That following completion of an offering conducted through the intermediary, there may or may not be any ongoing relationship between the issuer and intermediary; and
(ix) That under certain circumstances an issuer may cease to publish annual reports and, therefore, an investor may not continually have current financial information about the issuer.
(2) An intermediary must make the most current version of its educational material available on its platform at all times and, if at any time, the intermediary makes a material revision to its educational materials, it must make the revised educational materials available to all investors before accepting any additional investment commitments or effecting any further transactions in securities offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
(c)
Promoters.
In connection with establishing an account for an investor, an intermediary must inform the investor that any person who promotes an issuer's offering for compensation, whether past or prospective, or who is a founder or an employee of an issuer that engages in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer on the intermediary's platform, must clearly disclose in all communications on the
intermediary's platform, respectively, the receipt of the compensation and that he or she is engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer.
(d)
Compensation disclosure.
When establishing an account for an investor, an intermediary must clearly disclose the manner in which the intermediary is compensated in connection with offerings and sales of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
§ 227.303
Requirements with respect to transactions.
(a)
Issuer information.
An intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) must make available to the Commission and to investors any information required to be provided by the issuer of the securities under §§ 227.201 and 227.203(a).
(1) This information must be made publicly available on the intermediary's platform, in a manner that reasonably permits a person accessing the platform to save, download, or otherwise store the information;
(2) This information must be made publicly available on the intermediary's platform for a minimum of 21 days before any securities are sold in the offering, during which time the intermediary may accept investment commitments;
(3) This information, including any additional information provided by the issuer, must remain publicly available on the intermediary's platform until the offer and sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) is completed or cancelled; and
(4) An intermediary may not require any person to establish an account with the intermediary to access this information.
(b)
Investor qualification.
Each time before accepting any investment commitment (including any additional investment commitment from the same person), an intermediary must:
(1) Have a reasonable basis for believing that the investor satisfies the investment limitations established by section 4(a)(6)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)(B)) and this part. An intermediary may rely on an investor's representations concerning compliance with the investment limitation requirements concerning the investor's annual income, net worth, and the amount of the investor's other investments made pursuant to section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) unless the intermediary has reason to question the reliability of the representation.
(2) Obtain from the investor:
(i) A representation that the investor has reviewed the intermediary's educational materials delivered pursuant to § 227.302(b), understands that the entire amount of his or her investment may be lost, and is in a financial condition to bear the loss of the investment; and
(ii) A questionnaire completed by the investor demonstrating the investor's understanding that:
(A) There are restrictions on the investor's ability to cancel an investment commitment and obtain a return of his or her investment;
(B) It may be difficult for the investor to resell securities acquired in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)); and
(C) Investing in securities offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) involves risk, and the investor should not invest any funds in an offering made in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act unless he or she can afford to lose the entire amount of his or her investment.
(c)
Communication channels.
An intermediary must provide on its platform communication channels by which persons can communicate with one another and with representatives of the issuer about offerings made available on the intermediary's platform, provided:
(1) If the intermediary is a funding portal, it does not participate in these communications other than to establish guidelines for communication and remove abusive or potentially fraudulent communications;
(2) The intermediary permits public access to view the discussions made in the communication channels;
(3) The intermediary restricts posting of comments in the communication channels to those persons who have opened an account with the intermediary on its platform; and
(4) The intermediary requires that any person posting a comment in the communication channels clearly and prominently disclose with each posting whether he or she is a founder or an employee of an issuer engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer, or is otherwise compensated, whether in the past or prospectively, to promote the issuer's offering.
(d)
Notice of investment commitment.
An intermediary must promptly, upon receipt of an investment commitment from an investor, give or send to the investor a notification disclosing:
(1) The dollar amount of the investment commitment;
(2) The price of the securities, if known;
(3) The name of the issuer; and
(4) The date and time by which the investor may cancel the investment commitment.
(e)
Maintenance and transmission of funds.
(1) An intermediary that is a registered broker must comply with the requirements of 17 CFR 240.15c2-4.
(2) An intermediary that is a funding portal must direct investors to transmit the money or other consideration directly to a qualified third party that has agreed in writing to hold the funds for the benefit of, and to promptly transmit or return the funds to, the persons entitled thereto in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section. For purposes of this subpart C (§§ 227.300 through 227.305), a qualified third party means a:
(i) Registered broker or dealer that carries customer or broker or dealer accounts and holds funds or securities for those persons; or
(ii) Bank or credit union (where such credit union is insured by National Credit Union Administration) that has agreed in writing either to hold the funds in escrow for the persons who have the beneficial interests therein and to transmit or return such funds directly to the persons entitled thereto when so directed by the funding portal as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, or to maintain a bank or credit union account (or accounts) for the exclusive benefit of investors and the issuer.
(3) A funding portal that is an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) shall promptly direct the qualified third party to:
(i) Transmit funds from the qualified third party to the issuer when the aggregate amount of investment commitments from all investors is equal to or greater than the target amount of the offering and the cancellation period as set forth in § 227.304 has elapsed,
provided that
in no event may the funding portal direct this transmission of funds earlier than 21 days after the date on which the intermediary makes publicly available on its platform the information required to be provided by the issuer under §§ 227.201 and 227.203(a);
(ii) Return funds to an investor when an investment commitment has been cancelled in accordance with § 227.304 (including for failure to obtain effective reconfirmation as required under § 227.304(c)); and
(iii) Return funds to investors when an issuer does not complete the offering.
(f)
Confirmation of transaction.
(1) An intermediary must, at or before the completion of a transaction in a security in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), give or send to each investor a notification disclosing:
(i) The date of the transaction;
(ii) The type of security that the investor is purchasing;
(iii) The identity, price, and number of securities purchased by the investor, as well as the number of securities sold by the issuer in the transaction and the price(s) at which the securities were sold;
(iv) If a debt security, the interest rate and the yield to maturity calculated from the price paid and the maturity date;
(v) If a callable security, the first date that the security can be called by the issuer; and
(vi) The source, form and amount of any remuneration received or to be received by the intermediary in connection with the transaction, including
any remuneration received or to be received by the intermediary from persons other than the issuer.
(2) An intermediary satisfying the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section is exempt from the requirements of § 240.10b-10 of this chapter with respect to a transaction in a security offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 27132, May 7, 2020; 85 FR 54490, Sept. 2, 2020; 86 FR 3592, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 227.304
Completion of offerings, cancellations and reconfirmations.
(a)
Generally.
An investor may cancel an investment commitment for any reason until 48 hours prior to the deadline identified in the issuer's offering materials. During the 48 hours prior to such deadline, an investment commitment may not be cancelled except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Early completion of offering.
If an issuer reaches the target offering amount prior to the deadline identified in its offering materials pursuant to § 227.201(g), the issuer may close the offering on a date earlier than the deadline identified in its offering materials pursuant to § 227.201(g),
provided that:
(1) The offering remains open for a minimum of 21 days pursuant to § 227.303(a);
(2) The intermediary provides notice to any potential investors, and gives or sends notice to investors that have made investment commitments in the offering, of:
(i) The new, anticipated deadline of the offering;
(ii) The right of investors to cancel investment commitments for any reason until 48 hours prior to the new offering deadline; and
(iii) Whether the issuer will continue to accept investment commitments during the 48-hour period prior to the new offering deadline.
(3) The new offering deadline is scheduled for and occurs at least five business days after the notice required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is provided; and
(4) At the time of the new offering deadline, the issuer continues to meet or exceed the target offering amount.
(c)
Cancellations and reconfirmations based on material changes.
(1) If there is a material change to the terms of an offering or to the information provided by the issuer, the intermediary must give or send to any investor who has made an investment commitment notice of the material change and that the investor's investment commitment will be cancelled unless the investor reconfirms his or her investment commitment within five business days of receipt of the notice. If the investor fails to reconfirm his or her investment within those five business days, the intermediary within five business days thereafter must:
(i) Give or send the investor a notification disclosing that the commitment was cancelled, the reason for the cancellation and the refund amount that the investor is expected to receive; and
(ii) Direct the refund of investor funds.
(2) If material changes to the offering or to the information provided by the issuer regarding the offering occur within five business days of the maximum number of days that an offering is to remain open, the offering must be extended to allow for a period of five business days for the investor to reconfirm his or her investment.
(d)
Return of funds if offering is not completed.
If an issuer does not complete an offering, an intermediary must within five business days:
(1) Give or send each investor a notification of the cancellation, disclosing the reason for the cancellation, and the refund amount that the investor is expected to receive;
(2) Direct the refund of investor funds; and
(3) Prevent investors from making investment commitments with respect to that offering on its platform.
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 27132, May 7, 2020; 85 FR 54490, Sept. 2, 2020; 86 FR 3592, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 227.305
Payments to third parties.
(a)
Prohibition on payments for personally identifiable information.
An intermediary may not compensate any person for providing the intermediary
with the personally identifiable information of any investor or potential investor in securities offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
(b) For purposes of this rule, personally identifiable information means information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, either alone or when combined with other personal or identifying information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.

# Subpart D—Funding Portal Regulation
§ 227.400
Registration of funding portals.
(a)
Registration.
A funding portal must register with the Commission, by filing a complete Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter) in accordance with the instructions on the form, and become a member of a national securities association registered under section 15A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-3). The registration will be effective the later of:
(1) Thirty calendar days after the date that the registration is received by the Commission; or
(2) The date the funding portal is approved for membership by a national securities association registered under section 15A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-3).
(b)
Amendments to registration.
A funding portal must file an amendment to Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter) within 30 days of any of the information previously submitted on Form Funding Portal becoming inaccurate for any reason.
(c)
Successor registration.
(1) If a funding portal succeeds to and continues the business of a registered funding portal, the registration of the predecessor will remain effective as the registration of the successor if the successor, within 30 days after such succession, files a registration on Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter) and the predecessor files a withdrawal on Form Funding Portal;
provided, however,
that the registration of the predecessor funding portal will be deemed withdrawn 45 days after registration on Form Funding Portal is filed by the successor.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if a funding portal succeeds to and continues the business of a registered funding portal and the succession is based solely on a change of the predecessor's date or state of incorporation, form of organization, or composition of a partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the registration of the predecessor on Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter) to reflect these changes.
(d)
Withdrawal.
A funding portal must promptly file a withdrawal of registration on Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter) in accordance with the instructions on the form upon ceasing to operate as a funding portal. Withdrawal will be effective on the later of 30 days after receipt by the Commission (after the funding portal is no longer operational), or within such longer period of time as to which the funding portal consents or which the Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(e)
Applications and reports.
The applications and reports provided for in this section shall be considered filed when a complete Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter) is submitted with the Commission. Duplicate originals of the applications and reports provided for in this section must be filed with surveillance personnel designated by any registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member.
(f)
Nonresident funding portals.
Registration pursuant to this section by a nonresident funding portal shall be conditioned upon there being an information sharing arrangement in place between the Commission and the competent regulator in the jurisdiction under the laws of which the nonresident funding portal is organized or where it has its principal place of business, that is applicable to the nonresident funding portal.
(1)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, the term
nonresident funding portal
shall mean a funding portal incorporated in or organized under the
laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States or its territories, or having its principal place of business in any place not in the United States or its territories.
(2)
Power of attorney.
(i) Each nonresident funding portal registered or applying for registration pursuant to this section shall obtain a written consent and power of attorney appointing an agent in the United States, other than the Commission or a Commission member, official or employee, upon whom may be served any process, pleadings or other papers in any action under the federal securities laws. This consent and power of attorney must be signed by the nonresident funding portal and the named agent(s) for service of process.
(ii) Each nonresident funding portal registered or applying for registration pursuant to this section shall, at the time of filing its application on Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter), furnish to the Commission the name and address of its United States agent for service of process on Schedule C to the Form.
(iii) Any change of a nonresident funding portal's agent for service of process and any change of name or address of a nonresident funding portal's existing agent for service of process shall be communicated promptly to the Commission through amendment of the Schedule C to Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter).
(iv) Each nonresident funding portal must promptly appoint a successor agent for service of process if the nonresident funding portal discharges its identified agent for service of process or if its agent for service of process is unwilling or unable to accept service on behalf of the nonresident funding portal.
(v) Each nonresident funding portal must maintain, as part of its books and records, the written consent and power of attorney identified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section for at least three years after the agreement is terminated.
(3)
Access to books and records; inspections and examinations
—(i)
Certification and opinion of counsel.
Any nonresident funding portal applying for registration pursuant to this section shall:
(A) Certify on Schedule C to Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter) that the nonresident funding portal can, as a matter of law, and will provide the Commission and any registered national securities association of which it becomes a member with prompt access to the books and records of such nonresident funding portal and can, as a matter of law, and will submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission and any registered national securities association of which it becomes a member; and
(B) Provide an opinion of counsel that the nonresident funding portal can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission and any registered national securities association of which it becomes a member with prompt access to the books and records of such nonresident funding portal and can, as a matter of law, submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission and any registered national securities association of which it becomes a member.
(ii)
Amendments.
The nonresident funding portal shall re-certify, on Schedule C to Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter), within 90 days after any changes in the legal or regulatory framework that would impact the nonresident funding portal's ability to provide, or the manner in which it provides, the Commission, or any registered national securities association of which it is a member, with prompt access to its books and records or that would impact the Commission's or such registered national securities association's ability to inspect and examine the nonresident funding portal. The re-certification shall be accompanied by a revised opinion of counsel describing how, as a matter of law, the nonresident funding portal can continue to meet its obligations under paragraphs (f)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.
§ 227.401
Exemption.
A funding portal that is registered with the Commission pursuant to § 227.400 is exempt from the broker registration requirements of section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(a)(1)) in connection with its activities as a funding portal.
§ 227.402
Conditional safe harbor.
(a)
General.
Under section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)), a funding portal acting as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) may not: offer investment advice or recommendations; solicit purchases, sales, or offers to buy the securities offered or displayed on its platform or portal; compensate employees, agents, or other persons for such solicitation or based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on its platform or portal; hold, manage, possess, or otherwise handle investor funds or securities; or engage in such other activities as the Commission, by rule, determines appropriate. This section is intended to provide clarity with respect to the ability of a funding portal to engage in certain activities, consistent with the prohibitions under section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act. No presumption shall arise that a funding portal has violated the prohibitions under section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act or this part by reason of the funding portal or its associated persons engaging in activities in connection with the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act that do not meet the conditions specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The antifraud provisions and all other applicable provisions of the federal securities laws continue to apply to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Permitted activities.
A funding portal may, consistent with the prohibitions under section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)) and this part:
(1) Determine whether and under what terms to allow an issuer to offer and sell securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through its platform; provided that a funding portal otherwise complies with this part;
(2) Apply objective criteria to highlight offerings on the funding portal's platform where:
(i) The criteria are reasonably designed to highlight a broad selection of issuers offering securities through the funding portal's platform, are applied consistently to all issuers and offerings and are clearly displayed on the funding portal's platform;
(ii) The criteria may include, among other things, the type of securities being offered (for example, common stock, preferred stock or debt securities); the geographic location of the issuer; the industry or business segment of the issuer; the number or amount of investment commitments made, progress in meeting the issuer's target offering amount or, if applicable, the maximum offering amount; and the minimum or maximum investment amount; provided that the funding portal may not highlight an issuer or offering based on the advisability of investing in the issuer or its offering; and
(iii) The funding portal does not receive special or additional compensations for highlighting one or more issuers or offerings on its platform;
(3) Provide search functions or other tools that investors can use to search, sort, or categorize the offerings available through the funding portal's platform according to objective criteria where;
(i) The criteria may include, among other things, the type of securities being offered (for example, common stock, preferred stock or debt securities); the geographic location of the issuer; the industry or business segment of the issuer; the number or amount of investment commitments made, progress in meeting the issuer's target offering amount or, if applicable, the maximum offering amount; and the minimum or maximum investment amount; and
(ii) The criteria may not include, among other things, the advisability of investing in the issuer or its offering, or an assessment of any characteristic of the issuer, its business plan, its key management or risks associated with an investment.
(4) Provide communication channels by which investors can communicate with one another and with representatives of the issuer through the funding portal's platform about offerings through the platform, so long as the funding portal (and its associated persons):
(i) Does not participate in these communications, other than to establish guidelines for communication and remove abusive or potentially fraudulent communications;
(ii) Permits public access to view the discussions made in the communication channels;
(iii) Restricts posting of comments in the communication channels to those persons who have opened an account on its platform; and
(iv) Requires that any person posting a comment in the communication channels clearly disclose with each posting whether he or she is a founder or an employee of an issuer engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer, or is otherwise compensated, whether in the past or prospectively, to promote an issuer's offering;
(5) Advise an issuer about the structure or content of the issuer's offering, including assisting the issuer in preparing offering documentation;
(6) Compensate a third party for referring a person to the funding portal, so long as the third party does not provide the funding portal with personally identifiable information of any potential investor, and the compensation, other than that paid to a registered broker or dealer, is not based, directly or indirectly, on the purchase or sale of a security in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) offered on or through the funding portal's platform;
(7) Pay or offer to pay any compensation to a registered broker or dealer for services, including referrals pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section, in connection with the offer or sale of securities by the funding portal in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Act(15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), provided that:
(i) Such services are provided pursuant to a written agreement between the funding portal and the registered broker or dealer;
(ii) Such services and compensation are permitted under this part; and
(iii) Such services and compensation comply with the rules of any registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member;
(8) Receive any compensation from a registered broker or dealer for services provided by the funding portal in connection with the offer or sale of securities by the funding portal in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), provided that:
(i) Such services are provided pursuant to a written agreement between the funding portal and the registered broker or dealer;
(ii) Such compensation is permitted under this part; and
(iii) Such compensation complies with the rules of any registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member;
(9) Advertise the existence of the funding portal and identify one or more issuers or offerings available on the portal on the basis of objective criteria, as long as:
(i) The criteria are reasonably designed to identify a broad selection of issuers offering securities through the funding portal's platform, and are applied consistently to all potential issuers and offerings;
(ii) The criteria may include, among other things, the type of securities being offered (for example, common stock, preferred stock or debt securities); the geographic location of the issuer; the industry or business segment of the issuer; the expressed interest by investors, as measured by number or amount of investment commitments made, progress in meeting the issuer's target offering amount or, if applicable, the maximum offering amount; and the minimum or maximum investment amount; and
(iii) The funding portal does not receive special or additional compensation for identifying the issuer or offering in this manner;
(10) Deny access to its platform to, or cancel an offering of an issuer, pursuant to § 227.301(c)(2), if the funding portal has a reasonable basis for believing that the issuer or the offering presents the potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns about investor protection;
(11) Accept, on behalf of an issuer, an investment commitment for securities offered in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) by that issuer on the funding portal's platform;
(12) Direct investors where to transmit funds or remit payment in connection with the purchase of securities offered and sold in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)); and
(13) Direct a qualified third party, as required by § 227.303(e), to release proceeds to an issuer upon completion of a crowdfunding offering or to return proceeds to investors in the event an investment commitment or an offering is cancelled.
§ 227.403
Compliance.
(a)
Policies and procedures.
A funding portal must implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder relating to its business as a funding portal.
(b)
Privacy.
A funding portal must comply with the requirements of part 248 of this chapter as they apply to brokers.
(c)
Inspections and examinations.
A funding portal shall permit the examination and inspection of all of its business and business operations that relate to its activities as a funding portal, such as its premises, systems, platforms, and records by representatives of the Commission and of the registered national securities association of which it is a member.
§ 227.404
Records to be made and kept by funding portals.
(a)
Generally.
A funding portal shall make and preserve the following records for five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place:
(1) All records related to an investor who purchases or attempts to purchase securities through the funding portal;
(2) All records related to issuers who offer and sell or attempt to offer and sell securities through the funding portal and the control persons of such issuers;
(3) Records of all communications that occur on or through its platform;
(4) All records related to persons that use communication channels provided by a funding portal to promote an issuer's securities or communicate with potential investors;
(5) All records required to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of subparts C (§§ 227.300 through 227.305) and D (§§ 227.400 through 227.404) of this part;
(6) All notices provided by such funding portal to issuers and investors generally through the funding portal's platform or otherwise, including, but not limited to, notices addressing hours of funding portal operations (if any), funding portal malfunctions, changes to funding portal procedures, maintenance of hardware and software, instructions pertaining to access to the funding portal and denials of, or limitations on, access to the funding portal;
(7) All written agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by such funding portal relating to its business as such;
(8) All daily, monthly and quarterly summaries of transactions effected through the funding portal, including:
(i) Issuers for which the target offering amount has been reached and funds distributed; and
(ii) Transaction volume, expressed in:
(A) Number of transactions;
(B) Number of securities involved in a transaction;
(C) Total amounts raised by, and distributed to, issuers; and
(D) Total dollar amounts raised across all issuers, expressed in U.S. dollars; and
(9) A log reflecting the progress of each issuer who offers or sells securities through the funding portal toward meeting the target offering amount.
(b)
Organizational documents.
A funding portal shall make and preserve during the operation of the funding portal and of any successor funding portal, all organizational documents relating to the funding portal, including but not limited to, partnership agreements, articles of incorporation or charter, minute books and stock certificate books (or other similar type documents).
(c)
Format.
The records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be produced, reproduced, and maintained in the original, non-alterable format in which they were created or as permitted under § 240.17a-4(f) of this chapter.
(d)
Third parties.
The records required to be made and preserved pursuant to this section may be prepared or maintained by a third party on behalf of a funding portal. An agreement with a third party shall not relieve a funding portal from the responsibility to prepare and maintain records as specified in this rule. A funding portal must file with the registered national securities association of which it is a member, a written undertaking in a form acceptable to the registered national securities association, signed by a duly authorized person of the third party, stating in effect that such records are the property of the funding portal and will be surrendered promptly on request of the funding portal. The undertaking shall include the following provision:
With respect to any books and records maintained or preserved on behalf of [name of funding portal], the undersigned hereby acknowledges that the books and records are the property of [name of funding portal], and hereby undertakes to permit examination of such books and records at any time, or from time to time, during business hours by representatives of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member, and to promptly furnish to the Commission, its representatives, and the registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member, a true, correct, complete and current hard copy of any, all, or any part of, such books and records.
(e)
Review of records.
All records of a funding portal are subject at any time, or from time to time, to reasonable periodic, special, or other examination by the representatives of the Commission and the registered national securities association of which a funding portal is a member. Every funding portal shall furnish promptly to the Commission, its representatives, and the registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member true, correct, complete and current copies of such records of the funding portal that are requested by the representatives of the Commission and the registered national securities association.
(f)
Financial recordkeeping and reporting of currency and foreign transactions.
A funding portal that is subject to the requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 5311
et seq.
) shall comply with the reporting, recordkeeping and record retention requirements of 31 CFR chapter X. Where 31 CFR chapter X and § 227.404(a) and (b) require the same records or reports to be preserved for different periods of time, such records or reports shall be preserved for the longer period of time.

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 227.501
Restrictions on resales.
(a) Securities issued in a transaction exempt from registration pursuant to section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with section 4A of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part may not be transferred by any purchaser of such securities during the one-year period beginning when the securities were issued in a transaction exempt from registration pursuant to section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), unless such securities are transferred:
(1) To the issuer of the securities;
(2) To an accredited investor;
(3) As part of an offering registered with the Commission; or
(4) To a member of the family of the purchaser or the equivalent, to a trust controlled by the purchaser, to a trust created for the benefit of a member of the family of the purchaser or the equivalent, or in connection with the death or divorce of the purchaser or other similar circumstance.
(b) For purposes of this § 227.501, the term
accredited investor
shall mean any person who comes within any of the categories set forth in § 230.501(a) of this chapter, or who the seller reasonably believes comes within any of such categories, at the time of the sale of the securities to that person.
(c) For purposes of this section, the term
member of the family of the purchaser or the equivalent
includes a child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse or spousal equivalent, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of the purchaser, and shall include adoptive relationships. For purposes of this
paragraph (c), the term
spousal equivalent
means a cohabitant occupying a relationship generally equivalent to that of a spouse.
§ 227.502
Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of this part (Regulation Crowdfunding).
(a) A failure to comply with a term, condition, or requirement of this part will not result in the loss of the exemption from the requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77e) for any offer or sale to a particular individual or entity, if the issuer relying on the exemption shows:
(1) The failure to comply was insignificant with respect to the offering as a whole;
(2) The issuer made a good faith and reasonable attempt to comply with all applicable terms, conditions and requirements of this part; and
(3) The issuer did not know of such failure where the failure to comply with a term, condition or requirement of this part was the result of the failure of the intermediary to comply with the requirements of section 4A(a) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(a)) and the related rules, or such failure by the intermediary occurred solely in offerings other than the issuer's offering.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not preclude the Commission from bringing an enforcement action seeking any appropriate relief for an issuer's failure to comply with all applicable terms, conditions and requirements of this part.
§ 227.503
Disqualification provisions.
(a)
Disqualification events.
No exemption under section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) shall be available for a sale of securities if the issuer; any predecessor of the issuer; any affiliated issuer; any director, officer, general partner or managing member of the issuer; any beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power; any promoter connected with the issuer in any capacity at the time of filing, any offer after filing, or such sale; any person that has been or will be paid (directly or indirectly) remuneration for solicitation of purchasers in connection with such sale of securities; or any general partner, director, officer or managing member of any such solicitor:
(1) Has been convicted, within 10 years before the filing of the offeringstatement or such sale (or five years, in the case of issuers, their predecessors and affiliated issuers), of any felony or misdemeanor:
(i) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(ii) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(iii) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser, funding portal or paid solicitor of purchasers of securities;
(2) Is subject to any order, judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, entered within five years before the filing of the information required by section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) or such sale that, at the time of such filing or sale, restrains or enjoins such person from engaging or continuing to engage in any conduct or practice:
(i) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(ii) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(iii) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser, funding portal or paid solicitor of purchasers of securities;
(3) Is subject to a final order of a State securities commission (or an agency or officer of a State performing like functions); a State authority that supervises or examines banks, savings associations or credit unions; a State insurance commission (or an agency or officer of a state performing like functions); an appropriate Federal banking agency; the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or the National Credit Union Administration that:
(i) At the time of the filing of the information required by section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) or such sale, bars the person from:
(A) Association with an entity regulated by such commission, authority, agency or officer;
(B) Engaging in the business of securities, insurance or banking; or
(C) Engaging in savings association or credit union activities; or
(ii) Constitutes a final order based on a violation of any law or regulation that prohibits fraudulent, manipulative or deceptive conduct entered within ten years before such filing of the offering statement or such sale;
(iii)
Instruction to paragraph (a)(3). Final order
shall mean a written directive or declaratory statement issued by a Federal or State agency, described in this paragraph (a)(3), under applicable statutory authority that provides for notice and an opportunity for hearing, which constitutes a final disposition or action by that Federal or State agency.
(4) Is subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to section 15(b) or 15B(c) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b) or 78
o
-4(c)) or section 203(e) or (f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e) or (f)) that, at the time of the filing of the information required by section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) or such sale:
(i) Suspends or revokes such person's registration as a broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or funding portal;
(ii) Places limitations on the activities, functions or operations of such person; or
(iii) Bars such person from being associated with any entity or from participating in the offering of any penny stock;
(5) Is subject to any order of the Commission entered within five years before the filing of the information required by section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) or such sale that, at the time of such filing or sale, orders the person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation or future violation of:
(i) Any scienter-based anti-fraud provision of the Federal securities laws, including without limitation section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77q(a)(1)), section 10(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)) and 17 CFR 240.10b-5, section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(c)(1)) and section 206(1) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(1)) or any other rule or regulation thereunder; or
(ii) Section 5 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77e);
(6) Is suspended or expelled from membership in, or suspended or barred from association with a member of, a registered national securities exchange or a registered national or affiliated securities association for any act or omission to act constituting conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade;
(7) Has filed (as a registrant or issuer), or was or was named as an underwriter in, any registration statement or Regulation A (17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263) offering statement filed with the Commission that, within five years before the filing of the information required by section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) or such sale, was the subject of a refusal order, stop order, or order suspending the Regulation A exemption, or is, at the time of such filing or sale, the subject of an investigation or proceeding to determine whether a stop order or suspension order should be issued; or
(8) Is subject to a United States Postal Service false representation order entered within five years before the filing of the information required by section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) or such sale, or is, at the time of such filing or sale, subject to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction with respect to conduct alleged by the United States Postal Service to constitute a scheme or device for obtaining money or property through the mail by means of false representations.
Instruction to paragraph (a):
With respect to any beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power, the issuer is required to determine whether a disqualifying event has occurred only as of the time of filing of the offering statement and not from the time of such sale.
(b)
Transition, waivers, reasonable care exception.
Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply:
(1) With respect to any conviction, order, judgment, decree, suspension, expulsion or bar that occurred or was issued before May 16, 2016;
(2) Upon a showing of good cause and without prejudice to any other action by the Commission, if the Commission determines that it is not necessary under the circumstances that an exemption be denied;
(3) If, before the filing of the information required by section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) or such sale, the court or regulatory authority that entered the relevant order, judgment or decree advises in writing (whether contained in the relevant judgment, order or decree or separately to the Commission or its staff) that disqualification under paragraph (a) of this section should not arise as a consequence of such order, judgment or decree; or
(4) If the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable care, could not have known that a disqualification existed under paragraph (a) of this section.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(4).
An issuer will not be able to establish that it has exercised reasonable care unless it has made, in light of the circumstances, factual inquiry into whether any disqualifications exist. The nature and scope of the factual inquiry will vary based on the facts and circumstances concerning, among other things, the issuer and the other offering participants.
(c)
Affiliated issuers.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, events relating to any affiliated issuer that occurred before the affiliation arose will be not considered disqualifying if the affiliated entity is not:
(1) In control of the issuer; or
(2) Under common control with the issuer by a third party that was in control of the affiliated entity at the time of such events.
(d)
Intermediaries.
A person that is subject to a statutory disqualification as defined in section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)) may not act as, or be an associated person of, an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) unless so permitted pursuant to Commission rule or order.
Instruction to paragraph (d).
§ 240.17f-2 of this chapter generally requires the fingerprinting of every person who is a partner, director, officer or employee of a broker, subject to certain exceptions.
[80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 3592, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 227.504
Definition of “qualified purchaser”.
For purposes of section 18(b)(3) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 77r(b)(3)], a “qualified purchaser” means any person to whom securities are offered or sold pursuant to an offering under §§ 227.100 through 227.504 (Regulation Crowdfunding).
[86 FR 3593, Jan. 14, 2021]
PART 228 [RESERVED]
Pt. 229

# PART 229—STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975—REGULATION S-K

# Subpart 229.1—General
Sec.
229.10
(Item 10) General.

# Subpart 229.100—Business
229.101
(Item 101) Description of business.
229.102
(Item 102) Description of property.
229.103
(Item 103) Legal proceedings.
229.104
(Item 104) Mine safety disclosure.
229.105
(Item 105) Risk factors.
229.106
(Item 106) Cybersecurity.

# Subpart 229.200—Securities of the Registrant
229.201
(Item 201) Market price of and dividends on the registrant's common equity and related stockholder matters.
229.202
(Item 202) Description of registrant's securities.

# Subpart 229.300—Financial Information
229.301
[Reserved]
229.302
(Item 302) Supplementary financial information.
229.303
(Item 303) Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.
229.304
(Item 304) Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure.
229.305
(Item 305) Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.
229.306
[Reserved]
229.307
(Item 307) Disclosure controls and procedures.
229.308
(Item 308) Internal control over financial reporting.

# Subpart 229.400—Management and Certain Security Holders
229.401
(Item 401) Directors, executive officers, promoters and control persons.
229.402
(Item 402) Executive compensation.
229.403
(Item 403) Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management.
229.404
(Item 404) Transactions with related persons, promoters and certain control persons.
229.405
(Item 405) Compliance with section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.
229.406
(Item 406) Code of ethics.
229.407
(Item 407) Corporate governance
229.408
(Item 408) Insider trading arrangements and policies.

# Subpart 229.500—Registration Statement and Prospectus Provisions
229.501
(Item 501) Forepart of registration statement and outside front cover page of prospectus.
229.502
(Item 502) Inside front and outside back cover pages of prospectus.
229.503
(Item 503) Prospectus summary.
229.504
(Item 504) Use of proceeds.
229.505
(Item 505) Determination of offering price.
229.506
(Item 506) Dilution.
229.507
(Item 507) Selling security holders.
229.508
(Item 508) Plan of distribution.
229.509
(Item 509) Interests of named experts and counsel.
229.510
(Item 510) Disclosure of Commission position on indemnification for Securities Act liabilities.
229.511
(Item 511) Other expenses of issuance and distribution.
229.512
(Item 512) Undertakings.

# Subpart 229.600—Exhibits
229.601
(Item 601) Exhibits.

# Subpart 229.700—Miscellaneous
229.701
(Item 701) Recent sales of unregistered securities; use of proceeds from registered securities.
229.702
(Item 702) Indemnification of directors and officers.
229.703
(Item 703) Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated purchasers.

# Subpart 229.800—List of Industry Guides
229.801
Securities Act industry guides.
229.802
Exchange Act industry guides.

# Subpart 229.900—Roll-Up Transactions
229.901
(Item 901) Definitions.
229.902
(Item 902) Individual partnership supplements.
229.903
(Item 903) Summary.
229.904
(Item 904) Risk factors and other considerations.
229.905
(Item 905) Comparative information.
229.906
(Item 906) Allocation of roll-up consideration.
229.907
(Item 907) Background of the roll-up transaction.
229.908
(Item 908) Reasons for and alternatives to the roll-up transaction.
229.909
(Item 909) Conflicts of interest.
229.910
(Item 910) Fairness of the transaction.
229.911
(Item 911) Reports, opinions and appraisals.
229.912
(Item 912) Source and amount of funds and transactional expenses.
229.913
(Item 913) Other provisions of the transaction.
229.914
(Item 914) Pro forma financial statements; selected financial data.
229.915
(Item 915) Federal income tax consequences.

# Subpart 229.1000—Mergers and Acquisitions (Regulation M-A)
229.1000
(Item 1000) Definitions.
229.1001
(Item 1001) Summary term sheet.
229.1002
(Item 1002) Subject company information.
229.1003
(Item 1003) Identity and background of filing person.
229.1004
(Item 1004) Terms of the transaction.
229.1005
(Item 1005) Past contacts, transactions, negotiations and agreements.
229.1006
(Item 1006) Purposes of the transaction and plans or proposals.
229.1007
(Item 1007) Source and amount of funds or other consideration.
229.1008
(Item 1008) Interest in securities of the subject company.
229.1009
(Item 1009) Persons/assets, retained, employed, compensated or used.
229.1010
(Item 1010) Financial statements.
229.1011
(Item 1011) Additional information.
229.1012
(Item 1012) The solicitation or recommendation.
229.1013
(Item 1013) Purposes, alternatives, reasons and effects in a going-private transaction.
229.1014
(Item 1014) Fairness of the going-private transaction.
229.1015
(Item 1015) Reports, opinions, appraisals and negotiations.
229.1016
(Item 1016) Exhibits.

# Subpart 229.1100—Asset-Backed Securities (Regulation AB)
229.1100
(Item 1100) General.
229.1101
(Item 1101) Definitions.
229.1102
(Item 1102) Forepart of registration statement and outside cover page of the prospectus.
229.1103
(Item 1103) Transaction summary and risk factors.
229.1104
(Item 1104) Sponsors.
229.1105
(Item 1105) Static pool information.
229.1106
(Item 1106) Depositors.
229.1107
(Item 1107) Issuing entities.
229.1108
(Item 1108) Servicers.
229.1109
(Item 1109) Trustees and other transaction parties.
229.1110
(Item 1110) Originators.
229.1111
(Item 1111) Pool assets.
229.1112
(Item 1112) Significant obligors of pool assets.
229.1113
(Item 1113) Structure of the transaction.
229.1114
(Item 1114) Credit enhancement and other support, except for certain derivatives instruments.
229.1115
(Item 1115) Certain derivatives instruments.
229.1116
(Item 1116) Tax matters.
229.1117
(Item 1117) Legal proceedings.
229.1118
(Item 1118) Reports and additional information.
229.1119
(Item 1119) Affiliations and certain relationships and related transactions.
229.1120
(Item 1120) Ratings.
229.1121
(Item 1121) Distribution and pool performance information.
229.1122
(Item 1122) Compliance with applicable servicing criteria.
229.1123
(Item 1123) Servicer compliance statement.
229.1124
(Item 1124) Sponsor interest in the securities.
229.1125
(Item 1125) Schedule AL—Asset-level information.

# Subpart 229.1200—Disclosure by Registrants Engaged in Oil and Gas Producing Activities
229.1201
(Item 1201) General instructions to oil and gas industry-specific disclosures.
229.1202
(Item 1202) Disclosure of reserves.
229.1203
(Item 1203) Proved undeveloped reserves.
229.1204
(Item 1204) Oil and gas production, production prices and production costs.
229.1205
(Item 1205) Drilling and other exploratory and development activities.
229.1206
(Item 1206) Present activities.
229.1207
(Item 1207) Delivery commitments.
229.1208
(Item 1208) Oil and gas properties, wells, operations, and acreage.

# Subpart 229.1300—Disclosure by Registrants Engaged in Mining Operations
229.1300
(Item 1300) Definitions.
229.1301
(Item 1301) General instructions.
229.1302
(Item 1302) Qualified person, technical report summary, and technical studies.
229.1303
(Item 1303) Summary disclosure.
229.1304
(Item 1304) Individual property disclosure.
229.1305
(Item 1305) Internal controls disclosure.

# Subpart 229.1400—Disclosure by Bank and Savings and Loan Registrants
229.1401
(Item 1401) General instructions.
229.1402
(Item 1402) Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders' equity; interest rates and interest differential.
229.1403
(Item 1403) Investments in debt securities.
229.1404
(Item 1404) Loan portfolio.
229.1405
(Item 1405) Allowance for Credit Losses.
229.1406
(Item 1406) Deposits.

# Subpart 229.1500—Climate-Related Disclosure
229.1500
(Item 1500) Definitions.
229.1501
(Item 1501) Governance.
229.1502
(Item 1502) Strategy.
229.1503
(Item 1503) Risk management.
229.1504
(Item 1504) Targets and goals.
229.1505
(Item 1505) GHG emissions metrics.
229.1506
(Item 1506) Attestation of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions disclosure.
229.1507
(Item 1507) Safe harbor for certain climate-related disclosures.
229.1508
(Item 1508) Interactive data requirement.

# Subpart 229.1600—Special Purpose Acquisition Companies
229.1601
(Item 1601) Definitions.
229.1602
(Item 1602) Registered offerings by special purpose acquisition companies.
229.1603
(Item 1603) SPAC sponsor; conflicts of interest.
229.1604
(Item 1604) De-SPAC transactions.
229.1605
(Item 1605) Background of and reasons for the de-SPAC transaction; terms of the de-SPAC transaction; effects.
229.1606
(Item 1606) Board determination about the de-SPAC transaction.
229.1607
(Item 1607) Reports, opinions, appraisals, and negotiations.
229.1608
(Item 1608) Tender offer filing obligations.
229.1609
(Item 1609) Projections in de-SPAC transactions.
229.1610
(Item 1610) Structured data requirement.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77e, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77k, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77aa(25), 77aa(26), 77ddd, 77eee, 77ggg, 77hhh, 77iii, 77jjj, 77nnn, 77sss, 78c, 78i, 78j, 78j-3, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1, 78o, 78u-5, 78w, 78ll, 78 mm, 80a-8, 80a-9, 80a-20, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-31(c), 80a-37, 80a-38(a), 80a-39, 80b-11 and 7201
et seq.;
18 U.S.C. 1350; sec. 953(b), Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1904 (2010); and sec. 102(c), Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 310 (2012).

# Source:
47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# ATTENTION ELECTRONIC FILERS
THIS REGULATION SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH REGULATION S-T (PART 232 OF THIS CHAPTER), WHICH GOVERNS THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT. MANY PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN PAPER FORMAT CONTAINED IN THIS REGULATION ARE SUPERSEDED BY THE PROVISIONS OF REGULATION S-T FOR DOCUMENTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT.

# Subpart 229.1—General
§ 229.10
(Item 10) General.
(a)
Application of Regulation S-K.
This part (together with the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.,
as amended (
Securities Act
), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.,
as amended (
Exchange Act
) (parts 230 and 240 of this chapter), the Interpretative Releases under these Acts (parts 231 and 241 of this chapter) and the forms under these Acts (parts 239 and 249 of this chapter)) states the requirements applicable to the content of the non-financial statement portions of:
(1) Registration statements under the Securities Act (part 239 of this chapter) to the extent provided in the forms to be used for registration under such Act; and
(2) Registration statements under section 12 (subpart C of part 249 of this chapter), annual or other reports under sections 13 and 15(d) (subparts D and E of part 249 of this chapter), going-private transaction statements under section 13 (part 240 of this chapter), tender offer statements under sections 13 and 14 (part 240 of this chapter), annual reports to security holders and proxy and information statements under section 14 (part 240 of this chapter), and any other documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act, to the extent provided in the forms and rules under that Act.
(b)
Commission policy on projections.
The Commission encourages the use in documents specified in §§ 230.175 (Rule 175 under the Securities Act) and 240.3b-6 (Rule 3b-6 under the Exchange Act) of this chapter of management's projections of future economic performance that have a reasonable basis and are presented in an appropriate format. The guidelines set forth in this paragraph (b) represent the Commission's views on important factors to be considered in formulating and disclosing such projections. These guidelines also apply to projections of future economic performance of persons other than the registrant, such as the target company in a business combination transaction, that are included in the registrant's Commission filings.
(1)
Basis for projections.
The Commission believes that management must have the option to present in Commission filings its good faith assessment of a registrant's future performance. Management, however, must have a reasonable basis for such an assessment. Although a history of operations or experience in projecting may be among the factors providing a basis for management's assessment, the Commission does not believe that a registrant always must have had such a history or experience in order to formulate projections with a reasonable basis. An outside review of management's projections may furnish additional support for having a reasonable basis for a projection. If management decides to include a report of such a review in a Commission filing, there also should be disclosure of the qualifications of the reviewer, the extent of the review, the relationship between the reviewer and the registrant, and other material factors concerning the process by which any outside review was sought or obtained. Moreover, in the case of a registration statement under the Securities Act, the reviewer would be deemed an expert and an appropriate consent must be filed with the registration statement.
(2)
Format for projections.
(i) In determining the appropriate format for projections included in Commission filings, consideration must be given to, among other things, the financial items to be projected, the period to be covered, and the manner of presentation to be used. Although traditionally projections have been given for three financial items generally considered to be of primary importance to investors (revenues, net income (loss), and earnings (loss) per share), projection information need not necessarily be limited to these three items. However, management should take care to assure that the choice of items projected is not susceptible of misleading inferences through selective projection of only favorable items. Revenues, net income (loss), and earnings (loss) per share usually are presented together in order to avoid any misleading inferences that may arise when the individual items reflect contradictory trends. There may be instances, however, when it is appropriate to present earnings (loss) from continuing operations in addition to or in lieu of net income (loss). It generally would be misleading to present sales or revenue projections without one of the foregoing measures of income (loss). The period that appropriately may be covered by a projection depends to a large extent on the particular circumstances of the company involved. For certain companies in certain industries, a projection covering a two- or three-year period may be entirely reasonable. Other companies may not have a reasonable basis for projections beyond the current year. Accordingly, management should select the period most appropriate in the circumstances. In addition, management, in making a projection, should disclose what, in its opinion, is the most probable specific amount or the most reasonable range for each financial item projected based on the selected assumptions. Ranges, however, should not be so wide as to make the disclosures meaningless. Moreover, several projections based on varying assumptions may be judged by management to be more meaningful than a single number or range and would be permitted.
(ii) The presentation of projected measures that are not based on historical financial results or operational history should be clearly distinguished from projected measures that are based on historical financial results or operational history.
(iii) It generally would be misleading to present projections that are based on historical financial results or operational history without presenting such historical financial results or operational history with equal or greater prominence.
(iv) The presentation of projections that include non-GAAP financial measures should include a clear definition or explanation of those financial measures, a description of the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) financial measure to which it is most directly comparable, and an explanation why the non-GAAP measure was selected instead of a GAAP measure.
(c)
Commission policy on security ratings.
In view of the importance of security ratings (
ratings
) to investors and the marketplace, the Commission permits registrants to disclose, on a voluntary basis, ratings assigned by rating organizations to classes of debt securities, convertible debt securities and preferred stock in registration statements and periodic reports. Set forth herein are the Commission's views on important matters to be considered in disclosing security ratings.
(1)
Securities Act filings.
(i) If a registrant includes in a registration statement filed under the Securities Act any rating(s) assigned to a class of securities, it should consider including: (A) Any other rating intended for public dissemination assigned to such class by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO) (
additional NRSRO rating
) that is available on the date of the initial filing of the document and that is materially different from any rating disclosed; and (B) the name of each rating organization whose rating is disclosed; each such rating organization's definition or description of the category in which it rated the class of securities; the relative rank of each rating within the assigning rating organization's overall classification system; and a statement informing investors that a security
rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, that it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The registrant also should include the written consent of any rating organization that is not a NRSRO whose rating is included. With respect to the written consent of any NRSRO whose rating is included, see Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act (§ 230.436(g) of this chapter).
(ii) If a change in a rating already included is available subsequent to the filing of the registration statement, but prior to its effectiveness, the registrant should consider including such rating change in the final prospectus. If the rating change is material or if a materially different rating from any disclosed becomes available during this period, the registrant should consider amending the registration statement to include the rating change or additional rating and recirculating the preliminary prospectus.
(iii) If a materially different additional NRSRO rating or a material change in a rating already included becomes available during any period in which offers or sales are being made, the registrant should consider disclosing such additional rating or rating change by means of post-effective amendment or sticker to the prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (§ 230.424(b) of this chapter), unless, in the case of a registration statement on Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter), it has been disclosed in a document incorporated by reference into the registration statement subsequent to its effectiveness and prior to the termination of the offering.
(2)
Exchange Act filings.
(i) If a registrant includes in a registration statement or periodic report filed under the Exchange Act any rating(s) assigned to a class of securities, it should consider including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.
(ii) If there is a material change in the rating(s) assigned by any NRSRO(s) to any outstanding class(es) of securities of a registrant subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant should consider filing a report on Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) or other appropriate report under the Exchange Act disclosing such rating change.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings.
(1) Whenever one or more non-GAAP financial measures are included in a filing with the Commission:
(i) The registrant must include the following in the filing:
(A) A presentation, with equal or greater prominence, of the most directly comparable financial measure or measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP);
(B) A reconciliation (by schedule or other clearly understandable method), which shall be quantitative for historical non-GAAP measures presented, and quantitative, to the extent available without unreasonable efforts, for forward-looking information, of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measure disclosed or released with the most directly comparable financial measure or measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP identified in paragraph (e)(1)(i)(A) of this section;
(C) A statement disclosing the reasons why the registrant's management believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the registrant's financial condition and results of operations; and
(D) To the extent material, a statement disclosing the additional purposes, if any, for which the registrant's management uses the non-GAAP financial measure that are not disclosed pursuant to paragraph (e)(1)(i)(C) of this section; and
(ii) A registrant must not:
(A) Exclude charges or liabilities that required, or will require, cash settlement, or would have required cash settlement absent an ability to settle in another manner, from non-GAAP liquidity measures, other than the measures earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA);
(B) Adjust a non-GAAP performance measure to eliminate or smooth items identified as non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, when the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably likely to recur within two years or there was a similar charge or gain within the prior two years;
(C) Present non-GAAP financial measures on the face of the registrant's financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP or in the accompanying notes;
(D) Present non-GAAP financial measures on the face of any
pro forma
financial information required to be disclosed by Article 11 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210.11-01 through 210.11-03); or
(E) Use titles or descriptions of non-GAAP financial measures that are the same as, or confusingly similar to, titles or descriptions used for GAAP financial measures; and
(iii) If the filing is not an annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F (17 CFR 249.220f), a registrant need not include the information required by paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(C) and (e)(1)(i)(D) of this section if that information was included in its most recent annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F or a more recent filing, provided that the required information is updated to the extent necessary to meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(C) and (e)(1)(i)(D) of this section at the time of the registrant's current filing.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that:
(i) Excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or
(ii) Includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented.
(3) For purposes of this paragraph (e), GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, except that:
(i) In the case of foreign private issuers whose primary financial statements are prepared in accordance with non-U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, GAAP refers to the principles under which those primary financial statements are prepared; and
(ii) In the case of foreign private issuers that include a non-GAAP financial measure derived from or based on a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, GAAP refers to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for purposes of the application of the requirements of this paragraph (e) to the disclosure of that measure.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (e), non-GAAP financial measures exclude:
(i) Operating and other statistical measures; and
(ii) Ratios or statistical measures calculated using exclusively one or both of:
(A) Financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP; and
(B) Operating measures or other measures that are not non-GAAP financial measures.
(5) For purposes of this paragraph (e), non-GAAP financial measures exclude financial measures required to be disclosed by GAAP, Commission rules, or a system of regulation of a government or governmental authority or self-regulatory organization that is applicable to the registrant. However, the financial measure should be presented outside of the financial statements unless the financial measure is required or expressly permitted by the standard-setter that is responsible for establishing the GAAP used in such financial statements.
(6) The requirements of paragraph (e) of this section shall not apply to a non-GAAP financial measure included in disclosure relating to a proposed business combination, the entity resulting therefrom or an entity that is a party thereto, if the disclosure is contained in a communication that is subject to § 230.425 of this chapter, § 240.14a-12 or § 240.14d-2(b)(2) of this chapter or § 229.1015 of this chapter.
(7) The requirements of paragraph (e) of this section shall not apply to investment companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8).

# Note to paragraph (
e

# ):
A non-GAAP financial measure that would otherwise be prohibited by paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section is permitted in a filing of a foreign private issuer if:
1. The non-GAAP financial measure relates to the GAAP used in the registrant's primary financial statements included in its filing with the Commission;
2. The non-GAAP financial measure is required or expressly permitted by the standard-setter that is responsible for establishing the GAAP used in such financial statements; and
3. The non-GAAP financial measure is included in the annual report prepared by the registrant for use in the jurisdiction in which it is domiciled, incorporated or organized or for distribution to its security holders.
(f)
Smaller reporting companies.
The requirements of this part apply to smaller reporting companies. A smaller reporting company may comply with either the requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies or the requirements applicable to other companies for each item, unless the requirements for smaller reporting companies specify that smaller reporting companies must comply with the smaller reporting company requirements. The following items of this part set forth requirements for smaller reporting companies that are different from requirements applicable to other companies:
Index of Scaled Disclosure Available to Smaller Reporting Companies
Item 101
Description of business.
Item 201
Market price of and dividends on registrant's common equity and related stockholder matters.
Item 302
Supplementary financial information.
Item 305
Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.
Item 402
Executive compensation.
Item 404
Transactions with related persons, promoters and certain control persons.
Item 407
Corporate governance.
Item 503
Prospectus summary.
Item 504
Use of proceeds.
Item 601
Exhibits.
(1)
Definition of smaller reporting company.
As used in this part, the term
smaller reporting company
means an issuer that is not an investment company, an asset-backed issuer (as defined in § 229.1101), or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent that is not a smaller reporting company and that:
(i) Had a public float of less than $250 million; or
(ii) Had annual revenues of less than $100 million and either:
(A) No public float; or
(B) A public float of less than $700 million.
(2)
Determination.
Whether an issuer is a smaller reporting company is determined on an annual basis.
(i) For issuers that are required to file reports under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act:
(A) Public float is measured as of the last business day of the issuer's most recently completed second fiscal quarter and computed by multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates by the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of common equity, in the principal market for the common equity;
(B) Annual revenues are as of the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available; and
(C) An issuer must reflect the determination of whether it came within the definition of smaller reporting company in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first fiscal quarter of the next year, indicating on the cover page of that filing, and in subsequent filings for that fiscal year, whether it is a smaller reporting company, except that, if a determination based on public float indicates that the issuer is newly eligible to be a smaller reporting company, the issuer may choose to reflect this determination beginning with its first quarterly report on Form 10-Q following the determination, rather than waiting until the first fiscal quarter of the next year.
(ii) For determinations based on an initial registration statement under the Securities Act or Exchange Act for shares of its common equity:
(A) Public float is measured as of a date within 30 days of the date of the filing of the registration statement and
computed by multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates before the registration plus, in the case of a Securities Act registration statement, the number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity included in the registration statement by the estimated public offering price of the shares;
(B) Annual revenues are as of the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available; and
(C) The issuer must reflect the determination of whether it came within the definition of smaller reporting company in the registration statement and must appropriately indicate on the cover page of the filing, and subsequent filings for the fiscal year in which the filing is made, whether it is a smaller reporting company. The issuer must re-determine its status at the end of its second fiscal quarter and then reflect any change in status as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(C) of this section. In the case of a determination based on an initial Securities Act registration statement, an issuer that was not determined to be a smaller reporting company has the option to re-determine its status at the conclusion of the offering covered by the registration statement based on the actual offering price and number of shares sold.
(iii) Once an issuer determines that it does not qualify for smaller reporting company status because it exceeded one or more of the current thresholds, it will remain unqualified unless when making its annual determination either:
(A) It determines that its public float was less than $200 million; or
(B) It determines that its public float and its annual revenues meet the requirements for subsequent qualification included in the following chart:
Prior annual revenues
Prior public float
None or less than $700 million
$700 million or more
Less than $100 million
Neither threshold exceeded
Public float—Less than $560 million; and
Revenues—Less than $100 million.
$100 million or more
Public float—None or less than $700 million; and
Public float—Less than $560 million; and
Revenues—Less than $80 million
Revenues—Less than $80 million.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (f):
A registrant that qualifies as a smaller reporting company under the public float thresholds identified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section will qualify as a smaller reporting company regardless of its revenues.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (f):
A foreign private issuer is not eligible to use the requirements for smaller reporting companies unless it uses the forms and rules designated for domestic issuers and provides financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
(iv) Upon the consummation of a de-SPAC transaction, as defined in § 229.1601(a) (Item 1601(a) of Regulation S-K), an issuer must re-determine its status as a smaller reporting company pursuant to the thresholds set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section prior to its first filing, other than pursuant to Items 2.01(f), 5.01(a)(8), and/or 9.01(c) of Form 8-K, following the de-SPAC transaction and reflect this re-determination in its filings, beginning 45 days after consummation of the de-SPAC transaction.
(A) Public float is measured as of a date within four business days after the consummation of the de-SPAC transaction and is computed by multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates as of that date by the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of common equity, in the principal market for the common equity; and
(B) Annual revenues are the annual revenues of the target company, as defined in § 229.1601(d) (Item 1601(d) of Regulation S-K), as of the most recently completed fiscal year reported in the Form 8-K filed pursuant to
Items 2.01(f), 5.01(a)(8), and/or 9.01(c) of Form 8-K.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 21260, June 5, 1987; 58 FR 14665, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 62029, Nov. 23, 1993; 60 FR 32824, June 23, 1995; 64 FR 61443, Nov. 10, 1999; 68 FR 4831, Jan. 30, 2003; 70 FR 1593, Jan. 7, 2005; 73 FR 956, Jan. 4, 2008; 76 FR 46617, Aug. 3, 2011; 83 FR 32018, July 10, 2018; 83 FR 50209, Oct. 4, 2018; 84 FR 12716, Apr. 2, 2019; 85 FR 17241, Mar. 26, 2020; 86 FR 2126, Jan. 11, 2021; 89 FR 14315, Feb. 26, 2024]

# Subpart 229.100—Business
§ 229.101
(Item 101) Description of business.
(a)
General development of business.
Describe the general development of the business of the registrant, its subsidiaries, and any predecessor(s).
(1) In describing developments, only information material to an understanding of the general development of the business is required. Disclosure may include, but should not be limited to, the following topics:
(i) Any material changes to a previously disclosed business strategy;
(ii) The nature and effects of any material bankruptcy, receivership, or any similar proceeding with respect to the registrant or any of its significant subsidiaries;
(iii) The nature and effects of any material reclassification, merger or consolidation of the registrant or any of its significant subsidiaries; and
(iv) The acquisition or disposition of any material amount of assets otherwise than in the ordinary course of business.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 230.411(b) or § 240.12b-23(a) of this chapter, as applicable, a registrant may only forgo providing a full discussion of the general development of its business for a filing other than an initial registration statement if it provides an update to the general development of its business, disclosing all of the material developments that have occurred since the most recent registration statement or report that includes a full discussion of the general development of its business. In addition, the registrant must incorporate by reference, and include one active hyperlink to one registration statement or report that includes, the full discussion of the general development of the registrant's business.
(3) Registrants:
(i) Filing a registration statement on Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter) under the Securities Act or on Form 10 (§ 249.210 of this chapter) under the Exchange Act;
(ii) Not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act immediately before the filing of such registration statement; and
(iii) That (including predecessors) have not received revenue from operations during each of the three fiscal years immediately before the filing of such registration statement, shall provide the following information:
(A) If the registration statement is filed prior to the end of the registrant's second fiscal quarter, a description of the registrant's plan of operation for the remainder of the fiscal year; or
(B) If the registration statement is filed subsequent to the end of the registrant's second fiscal quarter, a descripition of the registrant's plan of operation for the remainder of the fiscal year and for the first six months of the next fiscal year. If such information is not available, the reasons for its not being available shall be stated. Disclosure relating to any plan shall include such matters as:
(
1
) In the case of a registration statement on Form S-1, a statement in narrative form indicating the registrant's opinion as to the period of time that the proceeds from the offering will satisfy cash requirements and whether in the next six months it will be necessary to raise additional funds to meet the expenditures required for operating the business of the registrant; the specific reasons for such opinion shall be set forth and categories of expenditures and sources of cash resources shall be identified; however, amounts of expenditures and cash resources need not be provided; in addition, if the narrative statement is based on a cash budget, such budget shall be furnished to the Commission as supplemental information, but not as part of the registration statement;
(
2
) An explanation of material product research and development to be
performed during the period covered in the plan;
(
3
) Any anticipated material acquisition of plant and equipment and the capacity thereof;
(
4
) Any anticipated material changes in number of employees in the various departments such as research and development, production, sales or administration; and
(
5
) Other material areas which may be peculiar to the registrant's business.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Description of business.
(1) Describe the business done and intended to be done by the registrant and its subsidiaries, focusing upon the registrant's dominant segment or each reportable segment about which financial information is presented in the financial statements. When describing each segment, only information material to an understanding of the business taken as a whole is required. Disclosure may include, but should not be limited to, the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) Revenue-generating activities, products and/or services, and any dependence on revenue-generating activities, key products, services, product families or customers, including governmental customers;
(ii) Status of development efforts for new or enhanced products, trends in market demand and competitive conditions;
(iii) Resources material to a registrant's business, such as:
(A) Sources and availability of raw materials; and
(B) The duration and effect of all patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, and concessions held;
(iv) A description of any material portion of the business that may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the Government; and
(v) The extent to which the business is or may be seasonal.
(2) Discuss the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section with respect to, and to the extent material to an understanding of, the registrant's business taken as a whole, except that, if the information is material to a particular segment, you should additionally identify that segment.
(i) The material effects that compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, may have upon the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position of the registrant and its subsidiaries, including the estimated capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the current fiscal year and any other material subsequent period; and
(ii) A description of the registrant's human capital resources, including the number of persons employed by the registrant, and any human capital measures or objectives that the registrant focuses on in managing the business (such as, depending on the nature of the registrant's business and workforce, measures or objectives that address the development, attraction and retention of personnel).
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Available information.
Disclose the information in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section in any registration statement you file under the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), and disclose the information in paragraph (e)(3) of this section in your annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter). Further disclose the information in paragraph (e)(4) of this section if you are an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter) filing an annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter):
(1) Whether you file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If you are a reporting company, identify the reports and other information you file with the SEC.
(2) State that the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (
http://www.sec.gov
).
(3) Disclose your internet address, if you have one.
(4)(i) Whether you make available free of charge on or through your Internet website, if you have one, your annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this
chapter), current reports on Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter), and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) as soon as reasonably practicable after you electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC;
(ii) If you do not make your filings available in this manner, the reasons you do not do so (including, where applicable, that you do not have an Internet website); and
(iii) If you do not make your filings available in this manner, whether you voluntarily will provide electronic or paper copies of your filings free of charge upon request.
(f)
Reports to security holders.
Disclose the following information in any registration statement you file under the Securities Act:
(1) If the SEC's proxy rules or regulations, or stock exchange requirements, do not require you to send an annual report to security holders or to holders of American depository receipts, describe briefly the nature and frequency of reports that you will give to security holders. Specify whether the reports that you give will contain financial information that has been examined and reported on, with an opinion expressed “by” an independent public or certified public accountant.
(2) For a foreign private issuer, if the report will not contain financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, you must state whether the report will include a reconciliation of this information with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
(g)
Enforceability of civil liabilities against foreign persons.
Disclose the following if you are a foreign private issuer filing a registration statement under the Securities Act:
(1) Whether or not investors may bring actions under the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws against the foreign private issuer, any of its officers and directors who are residents of a foreign country, any underwriters or experts named in the registration statement that are residents of a foreign country, and whether investors may enforce these civil liability provisions when the assets of the issuer or these other persons are located outside of the United States. The disclosure must address the following matters:
(i) The investor's ability to effect service of process within the United States on the foreign private issuer or any person;
(ii) The investor's ability to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against foreign persons based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws;
(iii) The investor's ability to enforce, in an appropriate foreign court, judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws; and
(iv) The investor's ability to bring an original action in an appropriate foreign court to enforce liabilities against the foreign private issuer or any person based upon the U.S. Federal securities laws.
(2) If you provide this disclosure based on an opinion of counsel, name counsel in the prospectus and file as an exhibit to the registration statement a signed consent of counsel to the use of its name and opinion.
(h)
Smaller reporting companies.
A smaller reporting company, as defined by § 229.10(f)(1), may satisfy its obligations under this Item by describing the development of its business pursuant to this paragraph (h). In describing developments under paragraphs (h)(1) through (3), information should be provided for the period of time that is material to an understanding of the general development of the business. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 230.411(b) or § 240.12b-23(a) of this chapter as applicable, a smaller reporting company may only forgo providing a full discussion of the general development of its business for a filing other than an initial registration statement if it provides an update to the general development of its business disclosing all of the material developments that have occurred since the most recent registration statement or report that includes a full discussion of the general development of its business. In addition, the smaller reporting company
must incorporate by reference, and include one active hyperlink to one registration statement or report that includes, the full discussion of the general development of the registrant's business. If the smaller reporting company has not been in business for three years, provide the same information for predecessor(s) of the smaller reporting company if there are any. This business development description should include:
(1) Form and year of organization;
(2) Any bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceeding; and
(3) Any material reclassification, merger, consolidation, or purchase or sale of a significant amount of assets not in the ordinary course of business.
(4)
Business of the smaller reporting company.
Briefly describe the business and include, to the extent material to an understanding of the smaller reporting company:
(i) Principal products or services and their markets;
(ii) Distribution methods of the products or services;
(iii) Status of any publicly announced new product or service;
(iv) Competitive business conditions and the smaller reporting company's competitive position in the industry and methods of competition;
(v) Sources and availability of raw materials and the names of principal suppliers;
(vi) Dependence on one or a few major customers;
(vii) Patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, concessions, royalty agreements or labor contracts, including duration;
(viii) Need for any government approval of principal products or services. If government approval is necessary and the smaller reporting company has not yet received that approval, discuss the status of the approval within the government approval process;
(ix) Effect of existing or probable governmental regulations on the business;
(x) [Reserved]
(xi) Costs and effects of compliance with environmental laws (federal, state and local); and
(xii) Number of total employees and number of full-time employees.
(5)
Reports to security holders.
Disclose the following in any registration statement you file under the Securities Act of 1933:
(i) If you are not required to deliver an annual report to security holders, whether you will voluntarily send an annual report and whether the report will include audited financial statements;
(ii) Whether you file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If you are a reporting company, identify the reports and other information you file with the Commission; and
(iii) State that the Commission maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission and state the address of that site (
http://www.sec.gov
). Disclose your internet address, if available.
(6)
Foreign issuers.
Provide the information required by Item 101(g) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.101(g)).
Instructions to Item 101:
1. In determining what information about the segments is material to an understanding of the registrant's business taken as a whole and therefore required to be disclosed, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Item, the registrant should take into account both quantitative and qualitative factors such as the significance of the matter to the registrant (e.g., whether a matter with a relatively minor impact on the registrant's business is represented by management to be important to its future profitability), the pervasiveness of the matter (e.g., whether it affects or may affect numerous items in the segment information), and the impact of the matter (e.g., whether it distorts the trends reflected in the segment information). Situations may arise when information should be disclosed about a segment, although the information in quantitative terms may not appear significant to the registrant's business taken as a whole.
2. Base the determination of whether information about segments is required for a particular year upon an evaluation of interperiod comparability. For instance, interperiod comparability would require a registrant to report segment information in the current period even if not material under the criteria for reportability of FASB ASC Topic 280,
Segment Reporting,
if a segment has been significant in the immediately preceding period and the registrant expects it to be significant in the future.
3. The Commission, upon written request of the registrant and where consistent with the protection of investors, may permit the omission of any of the information required by this Item or the furnishing in substitution thereof of appropriate information of comparable character.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 63 FR 6381, Feb. 6, 1998; 64 FR 1734, Jan. 12, 1999; 67 FR 58504, Sept. 16, 2002; 70 FR 76641, Dec. 27, 2005; 73 FR 957, Jan. 4, 2008; 76 FR 50120, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50209, Oct. 4, 2018; 85 FR 63759, Oct. 8, 2020]
§ 229.102
(Item 102) Description of property.
To the extent material, disclose the location and general character of the registrant's principal physical properties. In addition, identify the segment(s), as reported in the financial statements, that use the properties described. If any such property is not held in fee or is held subject to an encumbrance that is material to the registrant, so state and describe briefly how held.
Instruction 1 to Item 102:
This item requires information that will reasonably inform investors as to the suitability, adequacy, productive capacity, and extent of utilization of the principal physical properties of the registrant and its subsidiaries, to the extent the described properties are material. A registrant should engage in a comprehensive consideration of the materiality of its properties. If appropriate, descriptions may be provided on a collective basis; detailed descriptions of the physical characteristics of individual properties or legal descriptions by metes and bounds are not required and shall not be given.
Instruction 2 to Item 102:
In determining materiality under this Item, the registrant should take into account both quantitative and qualitative factors. See Instruction 1 to Item 101 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.101).
Instruction 3 to Item 102:
Registrants engaged in mining operations must refer to and, if required, provide the disclosure under §§ 229.1300 through 229.1305 (subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K), in addition to any disclosure required by this section.
Instruction 4 to Item 102:
A registrant engaged in oil and gas producing activities shall provide the information required by Subpart 1200 of Regulation S-K.
Instruction 5 to Item 102:
The definitions in § 210.4-10(a) of Regulation S-X [17 CFR 210] shall apply to this Item with respect to oil and gas operations.
Instruction 6 to Item 102:
The attention of certain issuers engaged in oil and gas producing activities is directed to the information called for in Securities Act Industry Guide 4 (referred to in § 229.801(d)).
Instruction 7 to Item 102:
The attention of issuers engaged in real estate activities is directed to the information called for in Guide 5 (§ 229.801(e) of this chapter).
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 64 FR 1735, Jan. 12, 1999; 73 FR 957, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 2193, Jan. 14, 2009; 83 FR 66444, Dec. 26, 2018; 84 FR 12716, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 229.103
(Item 103) Legal proceedings.
(a) Describe briefly any material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the registrant or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their property is the subject. Include the name of the court or agency in which the proceedings are pending, the date instituted, the principal parties thereto, a description of the factual basis alleged to underlie the proceedings and the relief sought. Include similar information as to any such proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities. Information may be provided by hyperlink or cross-reference to legal proceedings disclosure elsewhere in the document, such as in Management's Discussion
Analysis (MD
A), Risk Factors and notes to the financial statements.
(b) No information need be given under this section for proceedings:
(1) That involve negligence or other claims or actions if the business ordinarily results in such claims or actions, unless the claim or action departs from the normal kind of such claims or actions; or
(2) That involve primarily a claim for damages if the amount involved, exclusive of interest and costs, does not exceed 10 percent of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. However, if any proceeding presents in large degree the same legal or factual issues as other proceedings pending or known to be contemplated, the amount involved in such other proceedings shall be included in computing such percentage.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, disclosure under this section shall include, but shall not be limited to:
(1) Any material bankruptcy, receivership, or similar proceeding with respect to the registrant or any of its significant subsidiaries;
(2) Any material proceedings to which any director, officer or affiliate of the registrant, any owner of record or beneficially of more than five percent of any class of voting securities of the registrant, or any associate of any such director, officer, affiliate of the registrant, or security holder is a party adverse to the registrant or any of its subsidiaries or has a material interest adverse to the registrant or any of its subsidiaries;
(3) Administrative or judicial proceedings (including proceedings which present in large degree the same issues) arising under any Federal, State, or local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or primarily for the purpose of protecting the environment. Such proceedings shall not be deemed “ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business” and shall be described if:
(i) Such proceeding is material to the business or financial condition of the registrant;
(ii) Such proceeding involves primarily a claim for damages, or involves potential monetary sanctions, capital expenditures, deferred charges or charges to income and the amount involved, exclusive of interest and costs, exceeds 10 percent of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; or
(iii) A governmental authority is a party to such proceeding and such proceeding involves potential monetary sanctions, unless the registrant reasonably believes that such proceeding will result in no monetary sanctions, or in monetary sanctions, exclusive of interest and costs, of less than $300,000 or, at the election of the registrant, such other threshold that (A) the registrant determines is reasonably designed to result in disclosure of any such proceeding that is material to the business or financial condition is disclosed, (B) the registrant discloses (including any change thereto) in each annual and quarterly report, and (C) does not exceed the lesser of $1 million or one percent of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; provided, however, that such proceedings that are similar in nature may be grouped and described generically.
[85 FR 63760, Oct. 8, 2020]
§ 229.104
(Item 104) Mine safety disclosure.
(a) A registrant that is the operator, or that has a subsidiary that is an operator, of a coal or other mine shall provide the information specified below for the time period covered by the report:
(1) For each coal or other mine of which the registrant or a subsidiary of the registrant is an operator, identify the mine and disclose:
(i) The total number of violations of mandatory health or safety standards that could significantly and substantially contribute to the cause and effect of a coal or other mine safety or health hazard under section 104 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 814) for which the operator received a citation from the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
(ii) The total number of orders issued under section 104(b) of such Act (30 U.S.C. 814(b)).
(iii) The total number of citations and orders for unwarrantable failure of the mine operator to comply with mandatory health or safety standards under section 104(d) of such Act (30 U.S.C. 814(d)).
(iv) The total number of flagrant violations under section 110(b)(2) of such Act (30 U.S.C. 820(b)(2)).
(v) The total number of imminent danger orders issued under section 107(a) of such Act (30 U.S.C. 817(a)).
(vi) The total dollar value of proposed assessments from the Mine Safety and Health Administration under such Act (30 U.S.C. 801
et seq.
).
Instruction to Item 104(a)(1)(vi):
Registrants must provide the total dollar value of assessments proposed by MSHA relating to any type of violation during the period covered by the report, regardless of whether the registrant has challenged or appealed the assessment.
(vii) The total number of mining-related fatalities.
Instruction to Item 104(a)(1)(vii):
Registrants must report all fatalities occurring at a coal or other mine during the period covered by the report unless the fatality has been determined by MSHA to be unrelated to mining activity.
(2) A list of coal or other mines, of which the registrant or a subsidiary of the registrant is an operator, that receive written notice from the Mine Safety and Health Administration of:
(i) A pattern of violations of mandatory health or safety standards that are of such nature as could have significantly and substantially contributed to the cause and effect of coal or other mine health or safety hazards under section 104(e) of such Act (30 U.S.C. 814(e)); or
(ii) The potential to have such a pattern.
(3) Any pending legal action before the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission involving such coal or other mine.
Instruction to Item 104(a)(3):
The registrant must report the total number of legal actions that were pending before the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission as of the last day of the time period covered by the report, as well as the aggregate number of legal actions instituted and the aggregate number of legal actions resolved during the reporting period. With respect to the total number of legal actions that were pending before the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission as of the last day of the time period covered by the report, the registrant must also report the number of such legal actions that are:
1. Contests of citations and orders referenced in Subpart B of 29 CFR part 2700;
2. Contests of proposed penalties referenced in Subpart C of 29 CFR part 2700;
3. Complaints for compensation referenced in Subpart D of 29 CFR part 2700;
4. Complaints of discharge, discrimination or interference referenced in Subpart E of 29 CFR part 2700;
5. Applications for temporary relief referenced in Subpart F of 29 CFR part 2700; and
6. Appeals of judges' decisions or orders to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission referenced in Subpart H of 29 CFR part 2700.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this Item:
(1) The term
coal or other mine
means a coal or other mine, as defined in section 3 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 802), that is subject to the provisions of such Act (30 U.S.C. 801
et seq.
).
(2) The term
operator
has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 802).
(3) The term
subsidiary
has the meaning given the term in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 (17 CFR 240.12b-2).
Instructions to Item 104:
1. The registrant must provide the information required by this Item as specified by § 229.601(b)(95) of this chapter. In addition, the registrant must provide a statement, in an appropriately captioned section of the periodic report, that the information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and this Item is included in exhibit 95 to the periodic report.
2. When the disclosure required by this item is included in an exhibit to an annual report on Form 10-K, the information is to be provided for the registrant's fiscal year.
[76 FR 81782, Dec. 28, 2011]
§ 229.105
(Item 105) Risk factors.
(a) Where appropriate, provide under the caption “Risk Factors” a discussion of the material factors that make an investment in the registrant or offering speculative or risky. This discussion must be organized logically with relevant headings and each risk factor should be set forth under a subcaption that adequately describes the risk. The presentation of risks that could apply generically to any registrant or any offering is discouraged, but to the extent generic risk factors are presented, disclose them at the end of the risk factor section under the caption “General Risk Factors.”
(b) Concisely explain how each risk affects the registrant or the securities being offered. If the discussion is longer than 15 pages, include in the forepart of the prospectus or annual report, as applicable, a series of concise,
bulleted or numbered statements that is no more than two pages summarizing the principal factors that make an investment in the registrant or offering speculative or risky. If the risk factor discussion is included in a registration statement, it must immediately follow the summary section required by § 229.503 (Item 503 of Regulation S-K). If you do not include a summary section, the risk factor section must immediately follow the cover page of the prospectus or the pricing information section that immediately follows the cover page. Pricing information means price and price-related information that you may omit from the prospectus in an effective registration statement based on Rule 430A (§ 230.430A of this chapter). The registrant must furnish this information in plain English. See § 230.421(d) of Regulation C of this chapter.
[85 FR 63761, Oct. 8, 2020]
§ 229.106
(Item 106) Cybersecurity.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Cybersecurity incident
means an unauthorized occurrence, or a series of related unauthorized occurrences, on or conducted through a registrant's information systems that jeopardizes the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a registrant's information systems or any information residing therein.
Cybersecurity threat
means any potential unauthorized occurrence on or conducted through a registrant's information systems that may result in adverse effects on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of a registrant's information systems or any information residing therein.
Information systems
means electronic information resources, owned or used by the registrant, including physical or virtual infrastructure controlled by such information resources, or components thereof, organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of the registrant's information to maintain or support the registrant's operations.
(b)
Risk management and strategy.
(1) Describe the registrant's processes, if any, for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats in sufficient detail for a reasonable investor to understand those processes. In providing such disclosure, a registrant should address, as applicable, the following non-exclusive list of disclosure items:
(i) Whether and how any such processes have been integrated into the registrant's overall risk management system or processes;
(ii) Whether the registrant engages assessors, consultants, auditors, or other third parties in connection with any such processes; and
(iii) Whether the registrant has processes to oversee and identify such risks from cybersecurity threats associated with its use of any third-party service provider.
(2) Describe whether any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the registrant, including its business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition and if so, how.
(c)
Governance.
(1) Describe the board of directors' oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats. If applicable, identify any board committee or subcommittee responsible for the oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats and describe the processes by which the board or such committee is informed about such risks.
(2) Describe management's role in assessing and managing the registrant's material risks from cybersecurity threats. In providing such disclosure, a registrant should address, as applicable, the following non-exclusive list of disclosure items:
(i) Whether and which management positions or committees are responsible for assessing and managing such risks, and the relevant expertise of such persons or members in such detail as necessary to fully describe the nature of the expertise;
(ii) The processes by which such persons or committees are informed about and monitor the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents; and
(iii) Whether such persons or committees report information about such risks to the board of directors or a
committee or subcommittee of the board of directors.
Instruction 1 to Item 106(c):
In the case of a foreign private issuer with a two-tier board of directors, for purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, the term “board of directors” means the supervisory or non-management board. In the case of a foreign private issuer meeting the requirements of § 240.10A-3(c)(3) of this chapter, for purposes of paragraph (c) of this Item, the term “board of directors” means the issuer's board of auditors (or similar body) or statutory auditors, as applicable.
Instruction 2 to Item 106(c):
Relevant expertise of management in Item 106(c)(2)(i) may include, for example: Prior work experience in cybersecurity; any relevant degrees or certifications; any knowledge, skills, or other background in cybersecurity.
(d)
Structured Data Requirement.
Provide the information required by this Item in an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T and the EDGAR Filer Manual.
[88 FR 51942, Aug. 4, 2023]

# Subpart 229.200—Securities of the Registrant
§ 229.201
(Item 201) Market price of and dividends on the registrant's common equity and related stockholder matters.
(a)
Market information.
(1)(i) Identify the principal United States market(s) and the corresponding trading symbol(s) for each class of the registrant's common equity. In the case of foreign registrants, also identify the principal foreign public trading market(s), if any, and the corresponding trading symbol(s) for each class of the registrant's common equity.
(ii) If the principal United States market for such common equity is not an exchange, indicate, as applicable, that any over-the-counter market quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions.
(iii) Where there is no established public trading market for a class of common equity, furnish a statement to that effect and, if applicable, state the range of high and low bid information for each full quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim period for which financial statements are included, or are required to be included by 17 CFR 210.3-01 through 210.3-20 (Article 3 of Regulation S-X), indicating the source of such quotations. Reference to quotations shall be qualified by appropriate explanation. For purposes of this Item the existence of limited or sporadic quotations should not of itself be deemed to constitute an “established public trading market.”
(2) If the information called for by this paragraph (a) is being presented in a registration statement on Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter) under the Securities Act or on Form 10 (§ 249.210 of this chapter) under the Exchange Act relating to a class of common equity for which at the time of filing there is no established United States public trading market, indicate the amount(s) of common equity:
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) That could be sold pursuant to § 230.144 of this chapter or that the registrant has agreed to register under the Securities Act for sale by security holders; or
(iii) That is being, or has been publicly proposed to be, publicly offered by the registrant (unless such common equity is being offered pursuant to an employee benefit plan or dividend reinvestment plan), the offering of which could have a material effect on the market price of the registrant's common equity.
(b)
Holders.
(1) Set forth the approximate number of holders of each class of common equity of the registrant as of the latest practicable date.
(2) If the information called for by this paragraph (b) is being presented in a registration statement filed pursuant to the Securities Act or a proxy statement or information statement filed pursuant to the Exchange Act that relates to an acquisition, business combination or other reorganization, indicate the effect of such transaction on the amount and percentage of present holdings of the registrant's common equity owned beneficially by (i) any person (including any group as that term is used in section 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act) who is known to the registrant to be the beneficial owner of more than five percent of any class of the registrant's common equity and (ii) each director and nominee and (iii) all directors and officers as a group, and the registrant's present commitments to such persons with respect to the issuance of shares of any class of its common equity.
(c)
Dividends.
(1)[Reserved]
(2) Where registrants have a record of paying no cash dividends although earnings indicate an ability to do so, they are encouraged to consider the question of their intention to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, if no such intention exists, to make a statement of that fact in the filing. Registrants which have a history of paying cash dividends also are encouraged to indicate whether they currently expect that comparable cash dividends will continue to be paid in the future and, if not, the nature of the change in the amount or rate of cash dividend payments.
(d)
Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.
(1) In the following tabular format, provide the information specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this Item as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year with respect to compensation plans (including individual compensation arrangements) under which equity securities of the registrant are authorized for issuance, aggregated as follows:
(i) All compensation plans previously approved by security holders; and
(ii) All compensation plans not previously approved by security holders.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Plan category
Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights
Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights
Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a))
(a)
(b)
(c)
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
Total
(2) The table shall include the following information as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year for each category of equity compensation plan described in paragraph (d)(1) of this Item:
(i) The number of securities to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (column (a));
(ii) The weighted-average exercise price of the outstanding options, warrants and rights disclosed pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this Item (column (b)); and
(iii) Other than securities to be issued upon the exercise of the outstanding options, warrants and rights disclosed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this Item, the number of securities remaining available for future issuance under the plan (column (c)).
(3) For each compensation plan under which equity securities of the registrant are authorized for issuance that was adopted without the approval of security holders, describe briefly, in narrative form, the material features of the plan.
Instructions to paragraph (d).
1. Disclosure shall be provided with respect to any compensation plan and individual compensation arrangement of the registrant (or parent, subsidiary or affiliate of the registrant) under which equity securities of the registrant are authorized for issuance to employees or non-employees (such as directors, consultants, advisors, vendors, customers, suppliers or lenders) in exchange for consideration in the form of goods or services as described in FASB ASC Topic 718,
Compensation—Stock Compensation,
and FASB ASC Subtopic 505-50,
Equity—Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees”.
No disclosure is required with respect to
a. Any plan, contract or arrangement for the issuance of warrants or rights to all security holders of the registrant as such on a pro rata basis (such as a stock rights offering) or
b. Any employee benefit plan that is intended to meet the qualification requirements of Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401(a)).
2. For purposes of this paragraph, an “individual compensation arrangement” includes, but is not limited to, the following: a written compensation contract within the meaning of “employee benefit plan” under § 230.405 of this chapter and a plan (whether or not set forth in any formal document) applicable to one person as provided under Item 402(a)(6)(ii) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402(a)(6)(ii)).
3. If more than one class of equity security is issued under its equity compensation plans, a registrant should aggregate plan information for each class of security.
4. A registrant may aggregate information regarding individual compensation arrangements with the plan information required under paragraph (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this Item, as applicable.
5. A registrant may aggregate information regarding a compensation plan assumed in connection with a merger, consolidation or other acquisition transaction pursuant to which the registrant may make subsequent grants or awards of its equity securities with the plan information required under paragraph (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this Item, as applicable. A registrant shall disclose on an aggregated basis in a footnote to the table the information required under paragraph (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this Item with respect to any individual options, warrants or rights assumed in connection with a merger, consolidation or other acquisition transaction.
6. To the extent that the number of securities remaining available for future issuance disclosed in column (c) includes securities available for future issuance under any compensation plan or individual compensation arrangement other than upon the exercise of an option, warrant or right, disclose the number of securities and type of plan separately for each such plan in a footnote to the table.
7. If the description of an equity compensation plan set forth in a registrant's financial statements contains the disclosure required by paragraph (d)(3) of this Item, a cross-reference to such description will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this Item.
8. If an equity compensation plan contains a formula for calculating the number of securities available for issuance under the plan, including, without limitation, a formula that automatically increases the number of securities available for issuance by a percentage of the number of outstanding securities of the registrant, a description of this formula shall be disclosed in a footnote to the table.
9. Except where it is part of a document that is incorporated by reference into a prospectus, the information required by this paragraph need not be provided in any registration statement filed under the Securities Act.
(e)
Performance graph.
(1) Provide a line graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the registrant's cumulative total shareholder return on a class of common stock registered under section 12 of the Exchange Act (as measured by dividing the sum of the cumulative amount of dividends for the measurement period, assuming dividend reinvestment, and the difference between the registrant's share price at the end and the beginning of the measurement period; by the share price at the beginning of the measurement period) with:
(i) The cumulative total return of a broad equity market index assuming reinvestment of dividends, that includes companies whose equity securities are traded on the same exchange or are of comparable market capitalization;
provided, however,
that if the registrant is a company within the Standard
Poor's 500 Stock Index, the registrant must use that index; and
(ii) The cumulative total return, assuming reinvestment of dividends, of:
(A) A published industry or line-of-business index;
(B) Peer issuer(s) selected in good faith. If the registrant does not select its peer issuer(s) on an industry or line-of-business basis, the registrant shall disclose the basis for its selection; or
(C) Issuer(s) with similar market capitalization(s), but only if the registrant does not use a published industry or line-of-business index and does not believe it can reasonably identify a peer group. If the registrant uses this alternative, the graph shall be accompanied by a statement of the reasons for this selection.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this Item, the term “measurement period” shall be the period beginning at the “measurement point” established by the market close on the last trading day before the beginning of the registrant's fifth preceding fiscal year, through and including the end of the registrant's last completed fiscal year.
If the class of securities has been registered under section 12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
) for a shorter period of time, the period covered by the comparison may correspond to that time period.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A) of this Item, the term “published industry or line-of-business index” means any index that is prepared by a party other than the registrant or an affiliate and is accessible to the registrant's security holders;
provided, however,
that registrants may use an index prepared by the registrant or affiliate if such index is widely recognized and used.
(4) If the registrant selects a different index from an index used for the immediately preceding fiscal year, explain the reason(s) for this change and also compare the registrant's total return with that of both the newly selected index and the index used in the immediately preceding fiscal year.
Instructions to Item 201(e):
1. In preparing the required graphic comparisons, the registrant should:
a. Use, to the extent feasible, comparable methods of presentation and assumptions for the total return calculations required by paragraph (e)(1) of this Item;
provided, however,
that if the registrant constructs its own peer group index under paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B), the same methodology must be used in calculating both the registrant's total return and that on the peer group index; and
b. Assume the reinvestment of dividends into additional shares of the same class of equity securities at the frequency with which dividends are paid on such securities during the applicable fiscal year.
2. In constructing the graph:
a. The closing price at the measurement point must be converted into a fixed investment, stated in dollars, in the registrant's stock (or in the stocks represented by a given index) with cumulative returns for each subsequent fiscal year measured as a change from that investment; and
b. Each fiscal year should be plotted with points showing the cumulative total return as of that point. The value of the investment as of each point plotted on a given return line is the number of shares held at that point multiplied by the then-prevailing share price.
3. The registrant is required to present information for the registrant's last five fiscal years, and may choose to graph a longer period; but the measurement point, however, shall remain the same.
4. Registrants may include comparisons using performance measures in addition to total return, such as return on average common shareholders' equity.
5. If the registrant uses a peer issuer(s) comparison or comparison with issuer(s) with similar market capitalizations, the identity of those issuers must be disclosed and the returns of each component issuer of the group must be weighted according to the respective issuer's stock market capitalization at the beginning of each period for which a return is indicated.
6.
Smaller reporting companies.
A registrant that qualifies as a smaller reporting company, as defined by § 229.10(f)(1), is not required to provide the information required by paragraph (e) of this Item.
7. The information required by paragraph (e) of this Item need not be provided in any filings other than an annual report to security holders required by Exchange Act Rule 14a-3 (17 CFR 240.14a-3) or Exchange Act Rule 14c-3 (17 CFR 240.14c-3) that precedes or accompanies a registrant's proxy or information statement relating to an annual meeting of security holders at which directors are to be elected (or special meeting or written consents in lieu of such meeting). Such information will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
8. The information required by paragraph (e) of this Item shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C (17 CFR 240.14a-1-240.14a-104 or 240.14c-1-240.14c-101), other than as provided in this item, or to the liabilities of section 18 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78r), except to the extent that the registrant specifically requests that such information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
Instruction 1 to Item 201.
[Reserved]
Instruction 2 to Item 201.
Bid information reported pursuant to this Item shall be adjusted to give retroactive effect to material changes resulting from stock dividends, stock splits and reverse stock splits.
Instruction 3 to Item 201
The computation of the approximate number of holders of registrant's common equity may be based upon the number of record holders or also may include individual participants in security position listings. See Rule 17Ad-8 under the Exchange Act. The method of computation that is chosen shall be indicated.
Instruction 4 to Item 201
If the registrant is a foreign issuer, describe briefly:
A. Any governmental laws, decrees or regulations in the country in which the registrant is organized that restrict the export
or import of capital, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange controls, or that affect the remittance of dividends or other payments to nonresident holders of the registrant's common equity; and
B. All taxes, including withholding provisions, to which United States common equity holders are subject under existing laws and regulations of the foreign country in which the registrant is organized. Include a brief description of pertinent provisions of any reciprocal tax treaty between such foreign country and the United States regarding withholding. If there is no such treaty, so state.
Instruction 5 to Item 201
If the registrant is a foreign private issuer whose common equity of the class being registered is wholly or partially in bearer form, the response to this Item shall so indicate together with as much information as the registrant is able to provide with respect to security holdings in the United States. If the securities being registered trade in the United States in the form of American Depositary Receipts or similar certificates, the response to this Item shall so indicate together with the name of the depositary issuing such receipts and the number of shares or other units of the underlying security representing the trading units in such receipts.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 25127, June 10, 1982; 47 FR 54768, Dec. 6, 1982; 67 FR 246, Jan. 2, 2002; 71 FR 53240, Sept. 8, 2006; 73 FR 957, Jan. 4, 2008; 76 FR 50120, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50209, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 229.202
(Item 202) Description of registrant's securities.
(a)
Capital stock.
If capital stock is to be registered, state the title of the class and describe such of the matters listed in paragraphs (a) (1) through (5) as are relevant. A complete legal description of the securities need not be given.
(1) Outline briefly: (i) dividend rights; (ii) terms of conversion; (iii) sinking fund provisions; (iv) redemption provisions; (v) voting rights, including any provisions specifying the vote required by security holders to take action; (vi) any classification of the Board of Directors, and the impact of such classification where cumulative voting is permitted or required; (vii) liquidation rights; (viii) preemption rights; and (ix) liability to further calls or to assessment by the registrant and for liabilities of the registrant imposed on its stockholders under state statutes (e.g., to laborers, servants or employees of the registrant), unless such disclosure would be immaterial because the financial resources of the registrant or other factors make it improbable that liability under such state statutes would be imposed; (x) any restriction on alienability of the securities to be registered; and (xi) any provision discriminating against any existing or prospective holder of such securities as a result of such security holder owning a substantial amount of securities.
(2) If the rights of holders of such stock may be modified otherwise than by a vote of a majority or more of the shares outstanding, voting as a class, so state and explain briefly.
(3) If preferred stock is to be registered, describe briefly any restriction on the repurchase or redemption of shares by the registrant while there is any arrearage in the payment of dividends or sinking fund installments. If there is no such restriction, so state.
(4) If the rights evidenced by, or amounts payable with respect to, the shares to be registered are, or may be, materially limited or qualified by the rights of any other authorized class of securities, include the information regarding such other securities as will enable investors to understand such limitations or qualifications. No information need be given, however, as to any class of securities all of which will be retired, provided appropriate steps to ensure such retirement will be completed prior to or upon delivery by the registrant of the shares.
(5) Describe briefly or cross-reference to a description in another part of the document, any provision of the registrant's charter or by-laws that would have an effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the registrant and that would operate only with respect to an extraordinary corporate transaction involving the registrant (or any of its subsidiaries), such as a merger, reorganization, tender offer, sale or transfer of substantially all of its assets, or liquidation. Provisions and arrangements required by law or imposed by governmental or judicial authority need not be described or discussed pursuant to this paragraph (a)(5). Provisions or arrangements adopted by the registrant to effect, or
further, compliance with laws or governmental or judicial mandate are not subject to the immediately preceding sentence where such compliance did not require the specific provisions or arrangements adopted.
(b)
Debt securities.
If debt securities are to be registered, state the title of such securities, the principal amount being offered, and, if a series, the total amount authorized and the total amount outstanding as of the most recent practicable date; and describe such of the matter listed in paragraphs (b) (1) through (10) as are relevant. A complete legal description of the securities need not be given. For purposes solely of this Item, debt securities that differ from one another only as to the interest rate or maturity shall be regarded as securities of the same class. Outline briefly:
(1) Provisions with respect to maturity, interest, conversion, redemption, amortization, sinking fund, or retirement;
(2) Provisions with respect to the kind and priority of any lien securing the securities, together with a brief identification of the principal properties subject to such lien;
(3) Provisions with respect to the subordination of the rights of holders of the securities to other security holders or creditors of the registrant; where debt securities are designated as subordinated in accordance with Instruction 1 to this Item, set forth the aggregate amount of outstanding indebtedness as of the most recent practicable date that by the terms of such debt securities would be senior to such subordinated debt and describe briefly any limitation on the issuance of such additional senior indebtedness or state that there is no such limitation;
(4) Provisions restricting the declaration of dividends or requiring the maintenance of any asset ratio or the creation or maintenance of reserves;
(5) Provisions restricting the incurrence of additional debt or the issuance of additional securities; in the case of secured debt, whether the securities being registered are to be issued on the basis of unbonded bondable property, the deposit of cash or otherwise; as of the most recent practicable date, the approximate amount of unbonded bondable property available as a basis for the issuance of bonds; provisions permitting the withdrawal of cash deposited as a basis for the issuance of bonds; and provisions permitting the release or substitution of assets securing the issue;
Provided, however,
That provisions permitting the release of assets upon the deposit of equivalent funds or the pledge of equivalent property, the release of property no longer required in the business, obsolete property, or property taken by eminent domain or the application of insurance moneys, and other similar provisions need not be described;
(6) The general type of event that constitutes a default and whether or not any periodic evidence is required to be furnished as to the absence of default or as to compliance with the terms of the indenture;
(7) Provisions relating to modification of the terms of the security or the rights of security holders;
(8) If the rights evidenced by the securities to be registered are, or may be, materially limited or qualified by the rights of any other authorized class of securities, the information regarding such other securities as will enable investors to understand the rights evidenced by the securities; to the extent not otherwise disclosed pursuant to this Item; no information need be given, however, as to any class of securities all of which will be retired, provided appropriate steps to ensure such retirement will be completed prior to or upon delivery by the registrant of the securities;
(9) If debt securities are to be offered at a price such that they will be deemed to be offered at an “original issue discount” as defined in paragraph (a) of section 1273 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1273), or if a debt security is sold in a package with another security and the allocation of the offering price between the two securities may have the effect of offering the debt security at such an original issue discount, the tax effects thereof pursuant to sections 1271-1278;
(10) The name of the trustee(s) and the nature of any material relationship with the registrant or with any of its affiliates; the percentage of securities of the class necessary to require the
trustee to take action; and what indemnification the trustee may require before proceeding to enforce the lien.
(c)
Warrants and rights.
If the securities described are to be offered pursuant to warrants or rights state:
(1) The amount of securities called for by such warrants or rights;
(2) The period during which and the price at which the warrants or rights are exercisable;
(3) The amount of warrants or rights outstanding;
(4) Provisions for changes to or adjustments in the exercise price; and
(5) Any other material terms of such rights on warrants.
(d)
Other securities.
If securities other than capital stock, debt, warrants or rights are to be registered, include a brief description (comparable to that required in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Item 202) of the rights evidenced thereby.
(e)
Market information for securities other than common equity.
If securities other than common equity are to be registered and there is an established public trading market for such securities (as that term is used in Item 201 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201 of this chapter)) provide market information with respect to such securities comparable to that required by paragraph (a) of Item 201 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201).
(f)
American Depositary Receipts.
If Depositary Shares represented by American Depositary Receipts are being registered, furnish the following information:
(1) The name of the depositary and the address of its principal executive office.
(2) State the title of the American Depositary Receipts and identify the deposited security. Describe briefly the terms of deposit, including the provisions, if any, with respect to:
(i) The amount of deposited securities represented by one unit of American Depositary Receipts;
(ii) The procedure for voting, if any, the deposited securities;
(iii) The collection and distribution of dividends;
(iv) The transmission of notices, reports and proxy soliciting material;
(v) The sale or exercise of rights;
(vi) The deposit or sale of securities resulting from dividends, splits or plans of reorganization;
(vii) Amendment, extension or termination of the deposit;
(viii) Rights of holders of receipts to inspect the transfer books of the depositary and the list of holders of receipts;
(ix) Restrictions upon the right to deposit or withdraw the underlying securities;
(x) Limitation upon the liability of the depositary.
(3) Describe all fees and charges which may be imposed directly or indirectly against the holder of the American Depositary Receipts, indicating the type of service, the amount of fee or charges and to whom paid.
Instructions to Item 202:
1. Wherever the title of securities is required to be stated, there shall be given such information as will indicate the type and general character of the securities, including the following:
A. In the case of shares, the par or stated value, if any; the rate of dividends, if fixed, and whether cumulative or non-cumulative; a brief indication of the preference, if any; and if convertible or redeemable, a statement to that effect;
B. In the case of debt, the rate of interest; the date of maturity or, if the issue matures serially, a brief indication of the serial maturities, such as “maturing serially from 1955 to 1960”; if the payment of principal or interest is contingent, an appropriate indication of such contingency; a brief indication of the priority of the issue; and, if convertible or callable, a statement to that effect; or
C. In the case of any other kind of security, appropriate information of comparable character.
2. If the registrant is a foreign registrant, include (to the extent not disclosed in the document pursuant to Item 201 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201) or otherwise) in the description of the securities:
A. A brief description of any limitations on the right of nonresident or foreign owners to hold or vote such securities imposed by foreign law or by the charter or other constituent document of the registrant, or if no such limitations are applicable, so state;
B. A brief description of any governmental laws, decrees or regulations in the country in which the registrant is organized affecting the remittance of dividends, interest and other payments to nonresident holders of the securities being registered;
C. A brief outline of all taxes, including withholding provisions, to which United States security holders are subject under existing laws and regulations of the foreign
country in which the registrant is organized; and
D. A brief description of pertinent provisions of any reciprocal tax treaty between such foreign country and the United States regarding withholding or, if there is no such treaty, so state.
3. Section 305(a)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, 15 U.S.C. 77aaa
et seq.,
as amended (“Trust Indenture Act”), shall not be deemed to require the inclusion in a registration statement, prospectus, or annual report on Form 10-K of any information not required by this Item or Item 601(b)(4)(vi) of this chapter.
4. Where convertible securities or stock purchase warrants are being registered that are subject to redemption or call, the description of the conversion terms of the securities or material terms of the warrants shall disclose:
A. Whether the right to convert or purchase the securities will be forfeited unless it is exercised before the date specified in a notice of the redemption or call;
B. The expiration or termination date of the warrants;
C. The kinds, frequency and timing of notice of the redemption or call, including the cities or newspapers in which notice will be published (where the securities provide for a class of newspapers or group of cities in which the publication may be made at the discretion of the registrant, the registrant should describe such provision); and
D. In the case of bearer securities, that investors are responsible for making arrangements to prevent loss of the right to convert or purchase in the event of redemption of call, for example, by reading the newspapers in which the notice of redemption or call may be published.
5. The response to paragraph (f) shall include information with respect to fees and charges in connection with (A) the deposit or substitution of the underlying securities; (B) receipt and distribution of dividends; (C) the sale or exercise of rights; (D) the withdrawal of the underlying security; and (E) the transferring, splitting or grouping of receipts. Information with respect to the right to collect the fees and charges against dividends received and deposited securities shall be included in response to this item.
6. For asset-backed securities, see also Item 1113 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1113).

# Note to § 229.202:
If the securities being described have been accepted for listing on an exchange, the exchange may be identified. The document should not, however, convey the impression that the registrant may apply successfully for listing of the securities on an exchange or that, in the case of an underwritten offering, the underwriters may request the registrant to apply for such listing, unless there is reasonable assurance that the securities to be offered will be acceptable to a securities exchange for listing.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 54768, Dec. 6, 1982; 51 FR 42056, Nov. 20, 1986; 70 FR 1593, Jan. 7, 2005; 84 FR 12717, Apr. 2, 2019; 84 FR 39967, Aug. 13, 2019]

# Subpart 229.300—Financial Information
§ 229.301
[Reserved]
§ 229.302
(Item 302) Supplementary financial information.
(a)
Disclosure of material quarterly changes.
When there are one or more retrospective changes to the statements of comprehensive income for any of the quarters within the two most recent fiscal years or any subsequent interim period for which financial statements are included or are required to be included by §§ 210.3-01 through 210.3-20 of this chapter (Article 3 of Regulation S-X) that individually or in the aggregate are material, provide an explanation of the reasons for such material changes and disclose, for each affected quarterly period and the fourth quarter in the affected year, summarized financial information related to the statements of comprehensive income as specified in § 210.1-02(bb)(1)(ii) of this chapter (Rule 1-02(bb)(1)(ii) of Regulation S-X) and earnings per share reflecting such changes.
(1) If the financial statements to which this information relates have been reported on by an accountant, appropriate professional standards and procedures, as enumerated in Auditing Standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), shall be followed by the reporting accountant with regard to the disclosure required by this paragraph (a).
(2) This paragraph (a) applies to any registrant, except a foreign private issuer, that has securities registered pursuant to sections 12(b) (15 U.S.C. 78l(b)) (other than mutual life insurance companies) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(g)) after the registrant's initial registration of securities under these sections.
(3) A registrant that qualifies as a smaller reporting company, as defined
by § 229.10(f)(1), is not required to provide the information required by this section.
(b)
Information about oil and gas producing activities.
Registrants engaged in oil and gas producing activities shall present the information about oil and gas producing activities (as those activities are defined in Regulation S-X, § 210.4-10(a)) specified in FASB ASC Topic 932,
Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas,
if such oil and gas producing activities are regarded as significant under one or more of the tests set forth in FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235,
Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas—Notes to Financial Statements,
for ‘Significant Activities.’
Instruction 1 to paragraph (b).
(a) FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235 disclosures that relate to annual periods shall be presented for each annual period for which a statement of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X) is required, (b) FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235 disclosures required as of the end of an annual period shall be presented as of the date of each audited balance sheet required, and (c) FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235 disclosures required as of the beginning of an annual period shall be presented as of the beginning of each annual period for which a statement of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X) is required.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (b).
This paragraph, together with § 210.4-10 of Regulation S-X, prescribes financial reporting standards for the preparation of accounts by persons engaged, in whole or in part, in the production of crude oil or natural gas in the United States, pursuant to Section 503 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 8383) (“EPCA”) and Section 11(c) of the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 796) (“ESECA”) as amended by Section 506 of EPCA. The application of the paragraph to those oil and gas producing operations of companies regulated for ratemaking purposes on an individual-company-cost-of-service basis may, however, give appropriate recognition to differences arising because of the effect of the ratemaking process.
Instruction 3 to paragraph (b).
Any person exempted by the Department of Energy from any record-keeping or reporting requirements pursuant to Section 11(c) of ESECA, as amended, is similarly exempted from the related provisions of this paragraph in the preparation of accounts pursuant to EPCA. This exemption does not affect the applicability of this paragraph to filings pursuant to the federal securities laws.
(c)
Smaller reporting companies
. A registrant that qualifies as a smaller reporting company, as defined by § 229.10f(1), is not required to provide the information required by this Item.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 57914, Dec. 29, 1982; 52 FR 30919, Aug. 18, 1987; 56 FR 30053, July 1, 1991; 64 FR 73402, Dec. 30, 1999; 73 FR 958, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 18617, Apr. 23, 2009; 76 FR 50120, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50210, Oct. 4, 2018; 86 FR 2126, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 229.303
(Item 303) Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.
(a)
Objective.
The objective of the discussion and analysis is to provide material information relevant to an assessment of the financial condition and results of operations of the registrant including an evaluation of the amounts and certainty of cash flows from operations and from outside sources. The discussion and analysis must focus specifically on material events and uncertainties known to management that are reasonably likely to cause reported financial information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition. This includes descriptions and amounts of matters that have had a material impact on reported operations, as well as matters that are reasonably likely based on management's assessment to have a material impact on future operations. The discussion and analysis must be of the financial statements and other statistical data that the registrant believes will enhance a reader's understanding of the registrant's financial condition, cash flows and other changes in financial condition and results of operations. A discussion and analysis that meets the requirements of this paragraph (a) is expected to better allow investors to view the registrant from management's perspective.
(b)
Full fiscal years.
The discussion of financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations must provide information as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and such other information that the registrant believes to be necessary to an understanding of its financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations.
Where the financial statements reflect material changes from period-to-period in one or more line items, including where material changes within a line item offset one another, describe the underlying reasons for these material changes in quantitative and qualitative terms. Where in the registrant's judgment a discussion of segment information and/or of other subdivisions (
e.g.,
geographic areas, product lines) of the registrant's business would be necessary to an understanding of such business, the discussion must focus on each relevant reportable segment and/or other subdivision of the business and on the registrant as a whole.
(1)
Liquidity and capital resources.
Analyze the registrant's ability to generate and obtain adequate amounts of cash to meet its requirements and its plans for cash in the short-term (
i.e.,
the next 12 months from the most recent fiscal period end required to be presented) and separately in the long-term (
i.e.,
beyond the next 12 months). The discussion should analyze material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations. Such disclosures must specify the type of obligation and the relevant time period for the related cash requirements. As part of this analysis, provide the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Liquidity.
Identify any known trends or any known demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that will result in or that are reasonably likely to result in the registrant's liquidity increasing or decreasing in any material way. If a material deficiency is identified, indicate the course of action that the registrant has taken or proposes to take to remedy the deficiency. Also identify and separately describe internal and external sources of liquidity, and briefly discuss any material unused sources of liquid assets.
(ii)
Capital resources.
(A) Describe the registrant's material cash requirements, including commitments for capital expenditures, as of the end of the latest fiscal period, the anticipated source of funds needed to satisfy such cash requirements and the general purpose of such requirements.
(B) Describe any known material trends, favorable or unfavorable, in the registrant's capital resources. Indicate any reasonably likely material changes in the mix and relative cost of such resources. The discussion must consider changes among equity, debt, and any off-balance sheet financing arrangements.
(2)
Results of operations.
(i) Describe any unusual or infrequent events or transactions or any significant economic changes that materially affected the amount of reported income from continuing operations and, in each case, indicate the extent to which income was so affected. In addition, describe any other significant components of revenues or expenses that, in the registrant's judgment, would be material to an understanding of the registrant's results of operations.
(ii) Describe any known trends or uncertainties that have had or that are reasonably likely to have a material favorable or unfavorable impact on net sales or revenues or income from continuing operations. If the registrant knows of events that are reasonably likely to cause a material change in the relationship between costs and revenues (such as known or reasonably likely future increases in costs of labor or materials or price increases or inventory adjustments), the change in the relationship must be disclosed.
(iii) If the statement of comprehensive income presents material changes from period to period in net sales or revenue, if applicable, describe the extent to which such changes are attributable to changes in prices or to changes in the volume or amount of goods or services being sold or to the introduction of new products or services.
(3)
Critical accounting estimates.
Critical accounting estimates are those estimates made in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial condition or results of operations of the registrant. Provide qualitative and quantitative information necessary to understand the estimation uncertainty and the impact the critical accounting
estimate has had or is reasonably likely to have on financial condition or results of operations to the extent the information is material and reasonably available. This information should include why each critical accounting estimate is subject to uncertainty and, to the extent the information is material and reasonably available, how much each estimate and/or assumption has changed over a relevant period, and the sensitivity of the reported amount to the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying its calculation.
Instructions to paragraph (b):
1. Generally, the discussion must cover the periods covered by the financial statements included in the filing and the registrant may use any presentation that in the registrant's judgment enhances a reader's understanding. A smaller reporting company's discussion must cover the two-year period required in §§ 210.8-01 through 210.8-08 of this chapter (Article 8 of Regulation S-X) and may use any presentation that in the registrant's judgment enhances a reader's understanding. For registrants providing financial statements covering three years in a filing, discussion about the earliest of the three years may be omitted if such discussion was already included in the registrant's prior filings on EDGAR that required disclosure in compliance with § 229.303 (Item 303 of Regulation S-K), provided that registrants electing not to include a discussion of the earliest year must include a statement that identifies the location in the prior filing where the omitted discussion may be found. An emerging growth company, as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter (Rule 405 of the Securities Act) or § 240.12b-2 of this chapter (Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act), may provide the discussion required in paragraph (b) of this section for its two most recent fiscal years if, pursuant to Section 7(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77g(a)), it provides audited financial statements for two years in a Securities Act registration statement for the initial public offering of the emerging growth company's common equity securities.
2. If the reasons underlying a material change in one line item in the financial statements also relate to other line items, no repetition of such reasons in the discussion is required and a line-by-line analysis of the financial statements as a whole is neither required nor generally appropriate. Registrants need not recite the amounts of changes from period to period if they are readily computable from the financial statements. The discussion must not merely repeat numerical data contained in the financial statements.
3. Provide the analysis in a format that facilitates easy understanding and that supplements, and does not duplicate, disclosure already provided in the filing. For critical accounting estimates, this disclosure must supplement, but not duplicate, the description of accounting policies or other disclosures in the notes to the financial statements.
4. For the liquidity and capital resources disclosure, discussion of material cash requirements from known contractual obligations may include, for example, lease obligations, purchase obligations, or other liabilities reflected on the registrant's balance sheet. Except where it is otherwise clear from the discussion, the registrant must discuss those balance sheet conditions or income or cash flow items which the registrant believes may be indicators of its liquidity condition.
5. Where financial statements presented or incorporated by reference in the registration statement are required by § 210.4-08(e)(3) of this chapter (Rule 4-08(e)(3) of Regulation S-X) to include disclosure of restrictions on the ability of both consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries to transfer funds to the registrant in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances, the discussion of liquidity must include a discussion of the nature and extent of such restrictions and the impact such restrictions have had or are reasonably likely to have on the ability of the parent company to meet its cash obligations.
6. Any forward-looking information supplied is expressly covered by the safe harbor rule for projections. See 17 CFR 230.175 [Rule 175 under the Securities Act], 17 CFR 240.3b-6 [Rule 3b-6 under the Exchange Act], and Securities Act Release No. 6084 (June 25, 1979).
7. All references to the registrant in the discussion and in this section mean the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated.
8. Discussion of commitments or obligations, including contingent obligations, arising from arrangements with unconsolidated entities or persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on a registrant's financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, cash requirements or capital resources must be provided even when the arrangement results in no obligations being reported in the registrant's consolidated balance sheets. Such off-balance sheet arrangements may include: Guarantees; retained or contingent interests in assets transferred; contractual arrangements that support the credit, liquidity or market risk for transferred assets; obligations that arise or could arise from variable interests held in an unconsolidated entity; or obligations related to derivative instruments that are both indexed to and classified in a registrant's own equity under U.S. GAAP.
9. If the registrant is a foreign private issuer, briefly discuss any pertinent governmental economic, fiscal, monetary, or political policies or factors that have materially affected or could materially affect, directly or indirectly, its operations or investments by United States nationals. The discussion must also consider the impact of hyperinflation if hyperinflation has occurred in any of the periods for which audited financial statements or unaudited interim financial statements are filed. See § 210.3-20(c) of this chapter (Rule 3-20(c) of Regulation S-X) for a discussion of cumulative inflation rates that may trigger the requirement in this instruction 9 to this paragraph (b).
10. If the registrant is a foreign private issuer, the discussion must focus on the primary financial statements presented in the registration statement or report. The foreign private issuer must refer to the reconciliation to United States generally accepted accounting principles and discuss any aspects of the difference between foreign and United States generally accepted accounting principles, not discussed in the reconciliation, that the registrant believes are necessary for an understanding of the financial statements as a whole, if applicable.
11. The term
statement of comprehensive income
is as defined in § 210.1-02 of this chapter (Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X).
(c)
Interim periods.
If interim period financial statements are included or are required to be included by 17 CFR 210.3 [Article 3 of Regulation S-X], a management's discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations must be provided so as to enable the reader to assess material changes in financial condition and results of operations between the periods specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. The discussion and analysis must include a discussion of material changes in those items specifically listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1)
Material changes in financial condition.
Discuss any material changes in financial condition from the end of the preceding fiscal year to the date of the most recent interim balance sheet provided. If the interim financial statements include an interim balance sheet as of the corresponding interim date of the preceding fiscal year, any material changes in financial condition from that date to the date of the most recent interim balance sheet provided also must be discussed. If discussions of changes from both the end and the corresponding interim date of the preceding fiscal year are required, the discussions may be combined at the discretion of the registrant.
(2)
Material changes in results of operations.
(i) Discuss any material changes in the registrant's results of operations with respect to the most recent fiscal year-to-date period for which a statement of comprehensive income is provided and the corresponding year-to-date period of the preceding fiscal year.
(ii) Discuss any material changes in the registrant's results of operations with respect to either the most recent quarter for which a statement of comprehensive income is provided and the corresponding quarter for the preceding fiscal year or, in the alternative, the most recent quarter for which a statement of comprehensive
income is provided and the immediately preceding sequential quarter. If the latter immediately preceding sequential quarter is discussed, then provide in summary form the financial information for that immediately preceding sequential quarter that is subject of the discussion or identify the registrant's prior filings on EDGAR that present such information. If there is a change in the form of presentation from period to period that forms the basis of comparison from previous periods provided pursuant to this paragraph, the registrant must discuss the reasons for changing the basis of comparison and provide both comparisons in the first filing in which the change is made.
Instructions to paragraph (c):
1. If interim financial statements are presented together with financial statements for full fiscal years, the discussion of the interim financial information must be prepared pursuant to this paragraph (c) and the discussion of the full fiscal year's information must be prepared pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. Such discussions may be combined. Instructions 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 11 to paragraph (b) of this section apply to this paragraph (c).
2. The registrant's discussion of material changes in results of operations must identify any significant elements of the registrant's income or loss from continuing operations which do not arise from or are not necessarily representative of the registrant's ongoing business.
[86 FR 2126, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 229.304
(Item 304) Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure.
(a)(1) If during the registrant's two most recent fiscal years or any subsequent interim period, an independent accountant who was previously engaged as the principal accountant to audit the registrant's financial statements, or an independent accountant who was previously engaged to audit a significant subsidiary and on whom the principal accountant expressed reliance in its report, has resigned (or indicated it has declined to stand for re-election after the completion of the current audit) or was dismissed, then the registrant shall:
(i) State whether the former accountant resigned, declined to stand for re-election or was dismissed and the date thereof.
(ii) State whether the principal accountant's report on the financial statements for either of the past two years contained an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, or was qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles; and also describe the nature of each such adverse opinion, disclaimer of opinion, modification, or qualification.
(iii) State whether the decision to change accountants was recommended or approved by:
(A) Any audit or similar committee of the board of directors, if the issuer has such a committee; or
(B) The board of directors, if the issuer has no such committee.
(iv) State whether during the registrant's two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim period preceding such resignation, declination or dismissal there were any disagreements with the former accountant on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreement(s), if not resolved to the satisfaction of the former accountant, would have caused it to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement(s) in connection with its report. Also, (A) describe each such disagreement; (B) state whether any audit or similar committee of the board of directors, or the board of directors, discussed the subject matter of each of such disagreements with the former accountant; and (C) state whether the registrant has authorized the former accountant to respond fully to the inquiries of the successor accountant concerning the subject matter of each of such disagreements and, if not, describe the nature of any limitation thereon and the reason therefore. The disagreements required to be reported in response to this Item include both those resolved to the former accountant's satisfaction and those not resolved to the former accountant's satisfaction. Disagreements contemplated by this Item are those that
occur at the decision-making level,
i.e.
, between personnel of the registrant responsible for presentation of its financial statements and personnel of the accounting firm responsible for rendering its report.
(v) Provide the information required by paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this Item for each of the kinds of events (even though the registrant and the former accountant did not express a difference of opinion regarding the event) listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(v) (A) through (D) of this section, that occurred within the registrant's two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim period preceding the former accountant's resignation, declination to stand for re-election, or dismissal (“reportable events”). If the event led to a disagreement or difference of opinion, then the event should be reported as a disagreement under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) and need not be repeated under this paragraph.
(A) The accountant's having advised the registrant that the internal controls necessary for the registrant to develop reliable financial statements do not exist;
(B) The accountant's having advised the registrant that information has come to the accountant's attention that has led it to no longer be able to rely on management's representations, or that has made it unwilling to be associated with the financial statements prepared by management;
(C)(
1
) The accountant's having advised the registrant of the need to expand significantly the scope of its audit, or that information has come to the accountant's attention during the time period covered by Item 304(a)(1)(iv), that if further investigated may:
(
i
) Materially impact the fairness or reliability of either: a previously issued audit report or the underlying financial statements; or the financial statements issued or to be issued covering the fiscal period(s) subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements covered by an audit report (including information that may prevent it from rendering an unqualified audit report on those financial statements), or
(
ii
) Cause it to be unwilling to rely on management's representations or be associated with the registrant's financial statements, and
(
2
) Due to the accountant's resignation (due to audit scope limitations or otherwise) or dismissal, or for any other reason, the accountant did not so expand the scope of its audit or conduct such further investigation; or
(D)(
1
) The accountant's having advised the registrant that information has come to the accountant's attention that it has concluded materially impacts the fairness or reliability of either (
i
) a previously issued audit report or the underlying financial statements, or (
ii
) the financial statements issued or to be issued covering the fiscal period(s) subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements covered by an audit report (including information that, unless resolved to the accountant's satisfaction, would prevent it from rendering an unqualified audit report on those financial statements), and
(
2
) Due to the accountant's resignation, dismissal or declination to stand for re-election, or for any other reason, the issue has not been resolved to the accountant's satisfaction prior to its resignation, dismissal or declination to stand for re-election.
(2) If during the registrant's two most recent fiscal years or any subsequent interim period, a new independent accountant has been engaged as either the principal accountant to audit the registrant's financial statements, or as an independent accountant to audit a significant subsidiary and on whom the principal accountant is expected to express reliance in its report, then the registrant shall identify the newly engaged accountant and indicate the date of such accountant's engagement. In addition, if during the registrant's two most recent fiscal years, and any subsequent interim period prior to engaging that accountant, the registrant (or someone on its behalf) consulted the newly engaged accountant regarding:
(i) Either: The application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed; or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the registrant's
financial statements, and either a written report was provided to the registrant or oral advice was provided that the new accountant concluded was an important factor considered by the registrant in reaching a decision as to the accounting, auditing or financial reporting issue; or
(ii) Any matter that was either the subject of a disagreement (as defined in paragraph 304(a)(1)(iv) and the related instructions to this item) or a reportable event (as described in paragraph 304(a)(1)(v)), then the registrant shall:
(A) So state and identify the issues that were the subjects of those consultations;
(B) Briefly describe the views of the newly engaged accountant as expressed orally or in writing to the registrant on each such issue and, if written views were received by the registrant, file them as an exhibit to the report or registration statement requiring compliance with this Item 304(a);
(C) State whether the former accountant was consulted by the registrant regarding any such issues, and if so, provide a summary of the former accountant's views; and
(D) Request the newly engaged accountant to review the disclosure required by this Item 304(a) before it is filed with the Commission and provide the new accountant the opportunity to furnish the registrant with a letter addressed to the Commission containing any new information, clarification of the registrant's expression of its views, or the respects in which it does not agree with the statements made by the registrant in response to Item 304(a). The registrant shall file any such letter as an exhibit to the report or registration statement containing the disclosure required by this Item.
(3) The registrant shall provide the former accountant with a copy of the disclosures it is making in response to this Item 304(a) that the former accountant shall receive no later than the day that the disclosures are filed with the Commission. The registrant shall request the former accountant to furnish the registrant with a letter addressed to the Commission stating whether it agrees with the statements made by the registrant in response to this Item 304(a) and, if not, stating the respects in which it does not agree. The registrant shall file the former accountant's letter as an exhibit to the report on registration statement containing this disclosure. If the former accountant's letter is unavailable at the time of filing such report or registration statement, then the registrant shall request the former accountant to provide the letter as promptly as possible so that the registrant can file the letter with the Commission within ten business days after the filing of the report or registration statement. Notwithstanding the ten business day period, the registrant shall file the letter by amendment within two business days of receipt; if the letter is received on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday on which the Commission is not open for business, then the two business day period shall begin to run on and shall include the first business day thereafter. The former accountant may provide the registrant with an interim letter highlighting specific areas of concern and indicating that a more detailed letter will be forthcoming within the ten business day period noted above. If not filed with the report or registration statement containing the registrant's disclosure under this Item 304(a), then the interim letter, if any, shall be filed by the registrant by amendment within two business days of receipt.
(b) If: (1) In connection with a change in accountants subject to paragraph (a) of this Item 304, there was any disagreement of the type described in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) or any reportable event as described in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this Item;
(2) During the fiscal year in which the change in accountants took place or during the subsequent fiscal year, there have been any transactions or events similar to those which involved such disagreement or reportable event; and
(3) Such transactions or events were material and were accounted for or disclosed in a manner different from that which the former accountants apparently would have concluded was required, the registrant shall state the existence and nature of the disagreement or reportable event and also state the effect on the financial statements
if the method had been followed which the former accountants apparently would have concluded was required.
These disclosures need not be made if the method asserted by the former accountants ceases to be generally accepted because of authoritative standards or interpretations subsequently issued.
Instructions to Item 304:
1. The disclosure called for by paragraph (a) of this Item need not be provided if it has been previously reported as that term is defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter); the disclosure called for by paragraph (a) must be provided, however, notwithstanding prior disclosure, if required pursuant to Item 9 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter). The disclosure called for by paragraph (b) of this section must be furnished, where required, notwithstanding any prior disclosure about accountant changes or disagreements.
2. When disclosure is required by paragraph (a) of this section in an annual report to security holders pursuant to Rule 14a-3 (§ 240.14a-3 of this chapter) or Rule 14c-3 (§ 240.14c-3 of this chapter), or in a proxy or information statement filed pursuant to the requirements of Schedule 14A or 14C (§ 240.14a-101 or § 240.14c-101 of this chapter), in lieu of a letter pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(D) or (a)(3), prior to filing such materials with or furnishing such materials to the Commission, the registrant shall furnish the disclosure required by paragraph (a) of this section to any former accountant engaged by the registrant during the period set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and to the newly engaged accountant. If any such accountant believes that the statements made in response to paragraph (a) of this section are incorrect or incomplete, it may present its views in a brief statement, ordinarily expected not to exceed 200 words, to be included in the annual report or proxy or information statement. This statement shall be submitted to the registrant within ten business days of the date the accountant receives the registrant's disclosure. Further, unless the written views of the newly engaged accountant required to be filed as an exhibit by paragraph (a)(2)(B) of this Item 304 have been previously filed with the Commission the registrant shall file a Form 8-K concurrently with the annual report or proxy or information statement for the purpose of filing the written views as exhibits thereto.
3. The information required by Item 304(a) need not be provided for a company being acquired by the registrant that is not subject to the filing requirements of either section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, or, because of section 12(i) of the Exchange Act, has not furnished an annual report to security holders pursuant to Rule 14a-3 or Rule 14c-3 for its latest fiscal year.
4. The term “disagreements” as used in this Item shall be interpreted broadly, to include any difference of opinion concerning any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure which (if not resolved to the satisfaction of the former accountant) would have caused it to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection with its report. It is not necessary for there to have been an argument to have had a disagreement, merely a difference of opinion. For purposes of this Item, however, the term disagreements does not include initial differences of opinion based on incomplete facts or preliminary information that were later resolved to the former accountant's satisfaction by, and providing the registrant and the accountant do not continue to have a difference of opinion upon, obtaining additional relevant facts or information.
5. In determining whether any disagreement or reportable event has occurred, an oral communication from the engagement partner or another person responsible for rendering the accounting firm's opinion (or their designee) will generally suffice as the accountant advising the registrant of a reportable event or as a statement of a disagreement at the “decision-making level” within the accounting firm and require disclosure under this Item.
[53 FR 12929, Apr. 20, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 9774, Mar. 8, 1989]
§ 229.305
(Item 305) Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.
(a)
Quantitative information about market risk.
(1) Registrants shall provide, in their reporting currency, quantitative information about market risk as of the end of the latest fiscal year, in accordance with one of the following three disclosure alternatives. In preparing this quantitative information, registrants shall categorize market risk sensitive instruments into instruments entered into for trading purposes and instruments entered into for purposes other than trading purposes. Within both the trading and other than trading portfolios, separate quantitative information shall be presented, to the extent material, for each market risk exposure category (
i.e.
, interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, commodity price risk, and other relevant market risks, such as
equity price risk). A registrant may use one of the three alternatives set forth in this section for all of the required quantitative disclosures about market risk. A registrant also may choose, from among the three alternatives, one disclosure alternative for market risk sensitive instruments entered into for trading purposes and another disclosure alternative for market risk sensitive instruments entered into for other than trading purposes. Alternatively, a registrant may choose any disclosure alternative, from among the three alternatives, for each risk exposure category within the trading and other than trading portfolios. The three disclosure alternatives are:
(i)(A)(
1
) Tabular presentation of information related to market risk sensitive instruments; such information shall include fair values of the market risk sensitive instruments and contract terms sufficient to determine future cash flows from those instruments, categorized by expected maturity dates.
(
2
) Tabular information relating to contract terms shall allow readers of the table to determine expected cash flows from the market risk sensitive instruments for each of the next five years. Comparable tabular information for any remaining years shall be displayed as an aggregate amount.
(
3
) Within each risk exposure category, the market risk sensitive instruments shall be grouped based on common characteristics. Within the foreign currency exchange rate risk category, the market risk sensitive instruments shall be grouped by functional currency and within the commodity price risk category, the market risk sensitive instruments shall be grouped by type of commodity.
(
4
) See the Appendix to this Item for a suggested format for presentation of this information; and
(B) Registrants shall provide a description of the contents of the table and any related assumptions necessary to understand the disclosures required under paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this Item 305; or
(ii)(A) Sensitivity analysis disclosures that express the potential loss in future earnings, fair values, or cash flows of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices over a selected period of time. The magnitude of selected hypothetical changes in rates or prices may differ among and within market risk exposure categories; and
(B) Registrants shall provide a description of the model, assumptions, and parameters, which are necessary to understand the disclosures required under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this Item 305; or
(iii)(A) Value at risk disclosures that express the potential loss in future earnings, fair values, or cash flows of market risk sensitive instruments over a selected period of time, with a selected likelihood of occurrence, from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices;
(B)(
1
) For each category for which value at risk disclosures are required under paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(A) of this Item 305, provide either:
(
i
) The average, high and low amounts, or the distribution of the value at risk amounts for the reporting period; or
(
ii
) The average, high and low amounts, or the distribution of actual changes in fair values, earnings, or cash flows from the market risk sensitive instruments occurring during the reporting period; or
(
iii
) The percentage or number of times the actual changes in fair values, earnings, or cash flows from the market risk sensitive instruments exceeded the value at risk amounts during the reporting period;
(
2
) Information required under paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this Item 305 is not required for the first fiscal year end in which a registrant must present Item 305 information; and
(C) Registrants shall provide a description of the model, assumptions, and parameters, which are necessary to understand the disclosures required under paragraphs (a)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this Item 305.
(2) Registrants shall discuss material limitations that cause the information required under paragraph (a)(1) of this
Item 305 not to reflect fully the net market risk exposures of the entity. This discussion shall include summarized descriptions of instruments, positions, and transactions omitted from the quantitative market risk disclosure information or the features of instruments, positions, and transactions that are included, but not reflected fully in the quantitative market risk disclosure information.
(3) Registrants shall present summarized market risk information for the preceding fiscal year. In addition, registrants shall discuss the reasons for material quantitative changes in market risk exposures between the current and preceding fiscal years. Information required by this paragraph (a)(3), however, is not required if disclosure is not required under paragraph (a)(1) of this Item 305 for the current fiscal year. Information required by this paragraph (a)(3) is not required for the first fiscal year end in which a registrant must present Item 305 information.
(4) If registrants change disclosure alternatives or key model characteristics, assumptions, and parameters used in providing quantitative information about market risk (e.g., changing from tabular presentation to value at risk, changing the scope of instruments included in the model, or changing the definition of loss from fair values to earnings), and if the effects of any such change is material, the registrant shall:
(i) Explain the reasons for the change; and
(ii) Either provide summarized comparable information, under the new disclosure method, for the year preceding the current year or, in addition to providing disclosure for the current year under the new method, provide disclosures for the current year and preceding fiscal year under the method used in the preceding year.
Instructions to paragraph 305(a):
1. Under paragraph 305(a)(1):
A. For each market risk exposure category within the trading and other than trading portfolios, registrants may report the average, high, and low sensitivity analysis or value at risk amounts for the reporting period, as an alternative to reporting year-end amounts.
B. In determining the average, high, and low amounts for the fiscal year under instruction 1.A. of the Instructions to Paragraph 305(a), registrants should use sensitivity analysis or value at risk amounts relating to at least four equal time periods throughout the reporting period (e.g., four quarter-end amounts, 12 month-end amounts, or 52 week-end amounts).
C. Functional currency means functional currency as defined by generally accepted accounting principles (see, e.g., FASB ASC Master Glossary).
D. Registrants using the sensitivity analysis and value at risk disclosure alternatives are encouraged, but not required, to provide quantitative amounts that reflect the aggregate market risk inherent in the trading and other than trading portfolios.
2. Under paragraph 305(a)(1)(i):
A. Examples of contract terms sufficient to determine future cash flows from market risk sensitive instruments include, but are not limited to:
i. Debt instruments—principal amounts and weighted average effective interest rates;
ii. Forwards and futures—contract amounts and weighted average settlement prices;
iii. Options—contract amounts and weighted average strike prices;
iv. Swaps—notional amounts, weighted average pay rates or prices, and weighted average receive rates or prices; and
v. Complex instruments—likely to be a combination of the contract terms presented in 2.A.i. through iv. of this Instruction;
B. When grouping based on common characteristics, instruments should be categorized, at a minimum, by the following characteristics, when material:
i. Fixed rate or variable rate assets or liabilities;
ii. Long or short forwards and futures;
iii. Written or purchased put or call options with similar strike prices;
iv. Receive fixed and pay variable swaps, receive variable and pay fixed swaps, and receive variable and pay variable swaps;
v. The currency in which the instruments' cash flows are denominated;
vi. Financial instruments for which foreign currency transaction gains and losses are reported in the same manner as translation adjustments under generally accepted accounting principles (see, e.g., FASB ASC paragraph 830-20-35-3 (Foreign Currency Matters Topic) ); and
vii. Derivatives used to manage risks inherent in anticipated transactions;
C. Registrants may aggregate information regarding functional currencies that are economically related, managed together for internal risk management purposes, and have statistical correlations of greater than 75% over each of the past three years;
D. Market risk sensitive instruments that are exposed to rate or price changes in more
than one market risk exposure category should be presented within the tabular information for each of the risk exposure categories to which those instruments are exposed;
E. If a currency swap eliminates all foreign currency exposures in the cash flows of a foreign currency denominated debt instrument, neither the currency swap nor the foreign currency denominated debt instrument are required to be disclosed in the foreign currency risk exposure category. However, both the currency swap and the foreign currency denominated debt instrument should be disclosed in the interest rate risk exposure category; and
F. The contents of the table and related assumptions that should be described include, but are not limited to:
i. The different amounts reported in the table for various categories of the market risk sensitive instruments (e.g., principal amounts for debt, notional amounts for swaps, and contract amounts for options and futures);
ii. The different types of reported market rates or prices (e.g., contractual rates or prices, spot rates or prices, forward rates or prices); and
iii. Key prepayment or reinvestment assumptions relating to the timing of reported amounts.
3. Under paragraph 305(a)(1)(ii):
A. Registrants should select hypothetical changes in market rates or prices that are expected to reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in those rates and prices. In this regard, absent economic justification for the selection of a different amount, registrants should use changes that are not less than 10 percent of end of period market rates or prices;
B. For purposes of instruction 3.A. of the Instructions to Paragraph 305(a), the term
reasonably possible
has the same meaning as defined by generally accepted accounting principles (see, e.g., FASB ASC Master Glossary);
C. For purposes of instruction 3.A. of the Instructions to Paragraph 305(a), the term
near term
means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the financial statements (see FASB ASC Master Glossary);
D. Market risk sensitive instruments that are exposed to rate or price changes in more than one market risk exposure category should be included in the sensitivity analysis disclosures for each market risk category to which those instruments are exposed;
E. Registrants with multiple foreign currency exchange rate exposures should prepare foreign currency sensitivity analysis disclosures that measure the aggregate sensitivity to changes in all foreign currency exchange rate exposures, including the effects of changes in both transactional currency/functional currency exchange rate exposures and functional currency/reporting currency exchange rate exposures. For example, assume a French division of a registrant presenting its financial statements in U.S. dollars ($US) invests in a deutschmark(DM)-denominated debt security. In these circumstances, the $US is the reporting currency and the DM is the transactional currency. In addition, assume this division determines that the French franc (FF) is its functional currency according to FASB ASC Topic 830,
Foreign Currency Matters.
In preparing the foreign currency sensitivity analysis disclosures, this registrant should report the aggregate potential loss from hypothetical changes in both the DM/FF exchange rate exposure and the FF/$US exchange rate exposure; and
F. Model, assumptions, and parameters that should be described include, but are not limited to, how
loss
is defined by the model (e.g., loss in earnings, fair values, or cash flows), a general description of the modeling technique (e.g., duration modeling, modeling that measures the change in net present values arising from selected hypothetical changes in market rates or prices, and a description as to how optionality is addressed by the model), the types of instruments covered by the model (e.g., derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, derivative commodity instruments, and whether other instruments are included voluntarily, such as certain commodity instruments and positions, cash flows from anticipated transactions, and certain financial instruments excluded under instruction 3.C.ii. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b)), and other relevant information about the model's assumptions and parameters, (e.g., the magnitude and timing of selected hypothetical changes in market rates or prices used, the method by which discount rates are determined, and key prepayment or reinvestment assumptions).
4. Under paragraph 305(a)(1)(iii):
A. The confidence intervals selected should reflect reasonably possible near-term changes in market rates and prices. In this regard, absent economic justification for the selection of different confidence intervals, registrants should use intervals that are 95 percent or higher;
B. For purposes of instruction 4.A. of the Instructions to Paragraph 305(a), the term
reasonably possible
has the same meaning as defined by generally accepted accounting principles (see, e.g., FASB ASC Master Glossary);
C. For purposes of instruction 4.A. of the Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a), the term
near term
means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the financial statements (see FASB ASC Master Glossary);
D. Registrants with multiple foreign currency exchange rate exposures should prepare foreign currency value at risk analysis disclosures that measure the aggregate sensitivity to changes in all foreign currency exchange rate exposures, including the aggregate effects of changes in both transactional currency/functional currency exchange rate exposures and functional currency/reporting currency exchange rate exposures. For example, assume a French division of a registrant presenting its financial statements in U.S. dollars ($US) invests in a deutschmark(DM)-denominated debt security. In these circumstances, the $US is the reporting currency and the DM is the transactional currency. In addition, assume this division determines that the French franc (FF) is its functional currency according to FASB ASC Topic 830,
Foreign Currency Matters.
In preparing the foreign currency value at risk disclosures, this registrant should report the aggregate potential loss from hypothetical changes in both the DM/FF exchange rate exposure and the FF/$US exchange rate exposure; and
E. Model, assumptions, and parameters that should be described include, but are not limited to, how
loss
is defined by the model (e.g., loss in earnings, fair values, or cash flows), the type of model used (e.g., variance/covariance, historical simulation, or Monte Carlo simulation and a description as to how optionality is addressed by the model), the types of instruments covered by the model (e.g., derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, derivative commodity instruments, and whether other instruments are included voluntarily, such as certain commodity instruments and positions, cash flows from anticipated transactions, and certain financial instruments excluded under instruction 3.C.ii. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b)), and other relevant information about the model's assumptions and parameters, (e.g., holding periods, confidence intervals, and, when appropriate, the methods used for aggregating value at risk amounts across market risk exposure categories, such as by assuming perfect positive correlation, independence, or actual observed correlation).
5. Under paragraph 305(a)(2), limitations that should be considered include, but are not limited to:
A. The exclusion of certain market risk sensitive instruments, positions, and transactions from the disclosures required under paragraph 305(a)(1) (e.g., derivative commodity instruments not permitted by contract or business custom to be settled in cash or with another financial instrument, commodity positions, cash flows from anticipated transactions, and certain financial instruments excluded under instruction 3.C.ii. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b)). Failure to include such instruments, positions, and transactions in preparing the disclosures under paragraph 305(a)(1) may be a limitation because the resulting disclosures may not fully reflect the net market risk of a registrant; and
B. The ability of disclosures required under paragraph 305(a)(1) to reflect fully the market risk that may be inherent in instruments with leverage, option, or prepayment features (e.g., options, including written options, structured notes, collateralized mortgage obligations, leveraged swaps, and options embedded in swaps).
(b)
Qualitative information about market risk.
(1) To the extent material, describe:
(i) The registrant's primary market risk exposures;
(ii) How those exposures are managed. Such descriptions shall include, but not be limited to, a discussion of the objectives, general strategies, and instruments, if any, used to manage those exposures; and
(iii) Changes in either the registrant's primary market risk exposures or how those exposures are managed, when compared to what was in effect during the most recently completed fiscal year and what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods.
(2) Qualitative information about market risk shall be presented separately for market risk sensitive instruments entered into for trading purposes and those entered into for purposes other than trading.
Instructions to paragraph 305(b):
1. For purposes of disclosure under paragraph 305(b),
primary market risk exposures
means:
A. The following categories of market risk: interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, commodity price risk, and other relevant market rate or price risks (e.g., equity price risk); and
B. Within each of these categories, the particular markets that present the primary risk of loss to the registrant. For example, if a registrant has a material exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and, within this category of market risk, is most vulnerable to changes in dollar/yen, dollar/pound, and dollar/peso exchange rates, the registrant should disclose those exposures. Similarly, if a registrant has a material exposure to interest rate risk and, within this category of market risk, is most vulnerable to changes in short-term U.S. prime interest rates, it should disclose the existence of that exposure.
2. For purposes of disclosure under paragraph 305(b), registrants should describe primary market risk exposures that exist as of the end of the latest fiscal year, and how those exposures are managed.
General Instructions to paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b):
1. The disclosures called for by paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b) are intended to clarify the registrant's exposures to market risk associated with activities in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments.
2. In preparing the disclosures under paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), registrants are required to include derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments.
3. For purposes of paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments (collectively referred to as “market risk sensitive instruments”) are defined as follows:
A.
Derivative financial instruments
has the same meaning as defined by generally accepted accounting principles (see, e.g., FASB ASC Master Glossary), and includes futures, forwards, swaps, options, and other financial instruments with similar characteristics;
B.
Other financial instruments
means all financial instruments as defined by generally accepted accounting principles for which fair value disclosures are required (see, e.g., FASB ASC paragraph 825-10-50-8 (Financial Instruments Topic), except for derivative financial instruments, as defined above;
C.i. Other financial instruments include, but are not limited to, trade accounts receivable, investments, loans, structured notes, mortgage-backed securities, trade accounts payable, indexed debt instruments, interest-only and principal-only obligations, deposits, and other debt obligations;
ii. Other financial instruments exclude employers' and plans' obligations for pension and other post-retirement benefits, substantively extinguished debt, insurance contracts, lease contracts, warranty obligations and rights, unconditional purchase obligations, investments accounted for under the equity method, noncontrolling interests in consolidated enterprises, and equity instruments issued by the registrant and classified in stockholders' equity in the statement of financial position (see, e.g., FASB ASC paragraph 825-10-50-8). For purposes of this item, trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable need not be considered other financial instruments when their carrying amounts approximate fair value; and
D.
Derivative commodity instruments
include, to the extent such instruments are not derivative financial instruments, commodity futures, commodity forwards, commodity swaps, commodity options, and other commodity instruments with similar characteristics that are permitted by contract or business custom to be settled in cash or with another financial instrument. For purposes of this paragraph, settlement in cash includes settlement in cash of the net change in value of the derivative commodity instrument (e.g., net cash settlement based on changes in the price of the underlying commodity).
4.A. In addition to providing required disclosures for the market risk sensitive instruments defined in instruction 2. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), registrants are encouraged to include other market risk sensitive instruments, positions, and transactions within the disclosures required under paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b). Such instruments, positions, and transactions might include commodity positions, derivative commodity instruments that are not permitted by contract or business custom to be settled in cash or with another financial instrument, cash flows from anticipated transactions, and certain financial instruments excluded under instruction 3.C.ii. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b).
B. Registrants that voluntarily include other market risk sensitive instruments, positions and transactions within their quantitative disclosures about market risk under the sensitivity analysis or value at risk disclosure alternatives are not required to provide separate market risk disclosures for any voluntarily selected instruments, positions, or transactions. Instead, registrants selecting the sensitivity analysis and value at risk disclosure alternatives are permitted to present comprehensive market risk disclosures, which reflect the combined market risk exposures inherent in both the required and any voluntarily selected instruments, position, or transactions. Registrants that choose the tabular presentation disclosure alternative should present voluntarily selected instruments, positions, or transactions in a manner consistent with the requirements in Item 305(a) for market risk sensitive instruments.
C. If a registrant elects to include voluntarily a particular type of instrument, position, or transaction in their quantitative disclosures about market risk, that registrant should include all, rather than some, of those instruments, positions, or transactions within those disclosures. For example, if a registrant holds in inventory a particular type of commodity position and elects to include that commodity position within their market risk disclosures, the registrant should include the entire commodity position, rather than only a portion thereof, in their quantitative disclosures about market risk.
5.A. Under paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), a materiality assessment should be made for each market risk exposure category within
the trading and other than trading portfolios.
B. For purposes of making the materiality assessment under instruction 5.A. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), registrants should evaluate both:
i. The materiality of the fair values of derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments outstanding as of the end of the latest fiscal year; and
ii. The materiality of potential, near-term losses in future earnings, fair values, and/or cash flows from reasonably possible near-term changes in market rates or prices.
iii. If either paragraphs B.i. or B.ii. in this instruction of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b) are material, the registrant should disclose quantitative and qualitative information about market risk, if such market risk for the particular market risk exposure category is material.
C. For purposes of instruction 5.B.i. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), registrants generally should not net fair values, except to the extent allowed under generally accepted accounting principles (see, e.g., FASB ASC Subtopic 210-20,
Balance Sheet—Offsetting).
For example, under this instruction, the fair value of assets generally should not be netted with the fair value of liabilities.
D. For purposes of instruction 5.B.ii. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), registrants should consider, among other things, the magnitude of:
i. Past market movements;
ii. Reasonably possible, near-term market movements; and
iii. Potential losses that may arise from leverage, option, and multiplier features.
E. For purposes of instructions 5.B.ii and 5.D.ii of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), the term
near term
means a period of time going forward up to one year from the date of the financial statements (see FASB ASC Master Glossary).
F. For the purpose of instructions 5.B.ii. and 5.D.ii. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), the term
reasonably possible
has the same meaning as defined by generally accepted accounting principles (see, e.g., FASB ASC Master Glossary).
6. For purposes of paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b), registrants should present the information outside of, and not incorporate the information into, the financial statements (including the footnotes to the financial statements). In addition, registrants are encouraged to provide the required information in one location. However, alternative presentation, such as inclusion of all or part of the information in Management's Discussion and Analysis, may be used at the discretion of the registrant. If information is disclosed in more than one location, registrants should provide cross-references to the locations of the related disclosures.
7. For purposes of the instructions to paragraphs 305(a) and 305(b),
trading purposes
means dealing and other trading activities measured at fair value with gains and losses recognized in earnings. In addition,
anticipated transactions
means transactions (other than transactions involving existing assets or liabilities or transactions necessitated by existing firm commitments) an enterprise expects, but is not obligated, to carry out in the normal course of business.
(c)
Interim periods.
If interim period financial statements are included or are required to be included by Article 3 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210), discussion and analysis shall be provided so as to enable the reader to assess the sources and effects of material changes in information that would be provided under Item 305 of Regulation S-K from the end of the preceding fiscal year to the date of the most recent interim balance sheet.
Instructions to paragraph 305(c):
1. Information required under paragraph (c) of this Item 305 is not required until after the first fiscal year end in which this Item 305 is applicable.
(d)
Safe harbor.
(1) The safe harbor provided in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77z-2) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u-5) (“statutory safe harbors”) shall apply, with respect to all types of issuers and transactions, to information provided pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this Item 305, provided that the disclosure is made by: an issuer; a person acting on behalf of the issuer; an outside reviewer retained by the issuer making a statement on behalf of the issuer; or an underwriter, with respect to information provided by the issuer or information derived from information provided by the issuer.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (d) of this Item 305 only:
(i) All information required by paragraphs (a), (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(iii), and (c) of this Item 305 is considered
forward looking statements
for purposes of the statutory safe harbors, except for historical facts such as the terms of particular contracts and the number of market risk sensitive instruments held during or at the end of the reporting period; and
(ii) With respect to paragraph (a) of this Item 305, the
meaningful cautionary statements
prong of the statutory safe harbors will be satisfied if a registrant satisfies all requirements of that same paragraph (a) of this Item 305.
(e)
Smaller reporting companies.
A smaller reporting company, as defined by § 229.10(f)(1), is not required to provide the information required by this Item.
General instructions to paragraphs 305(a), 305(b), 305(c), 305(d), and 305(e):
1. Bank registrants, thrift registrants, and non-bank and non-thrift registrants with market capitalizations on January 28, 1997 in excess of $2.5 billion should provide Item 305 disclosures in filings with the Commission that include annual financial statements for fiscal years ending after June 15, 1997. Non-bank and non-thrift registrants with market capitalizations on January 28, 1997 of $2.5 billion or less should provide Item 305 disclosures in filings with the Commission that include financial statements for fiscal years ending after June 15, 1998.
2.A. For purposes of instruction 1. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a), 305(b), 305(c), 305(d), and 305(e),
bank registrants and thrift registrants
include any registrant which has control over a depository institution.
B. For purposes of instruction 2.A. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a), 305(b), 305(c), 305(d), and 305(e), a registrant has control over a depository institution if:
i. The registrant directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the depository institution;
ii. The registrant controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the depository institution; or
iii. The Federal Reserve Board or Office of Thrift Supervision determines, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the registrant directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the depository institution.
C. For purposes of instruction 2.B. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a), 305(b), 305(c), 305(d), and 305(e), a depository institution means any of the following:
i. An insured depository institution as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1813 (c));
ii. An institution organized under the laws of the United States, any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Somoa, or the Virgin Islands, which both accepts demand deposits or deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties or others and is engaged in the business of making commercial loans.
D. For purposes of instruction 1. of the General Instructions to Paragraphs 305(a), 305(b), 305(c), 305(d) and 305(e),
market capitalization
is the aggregate market value of common equity as set forth in General Instruction I.B.1. of Form S-3; provided however, that common equity held by affiliates is included in the calculation of market capitalization; and provided further that instead of using the 60 day period prior to filing referenced in General Instruction I.B.1. of Form S-3, the measurement date is January 28, 1997.

# Appendix to Item 305—Tabular Disclosures
The tables set forth below are illustrative of the format that might be used when a registrant elects to present the information required by paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of Item 305 regarding terms and information about derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments. These examples are for illustrative purposes only. Registrants are not required to display the information in the specific format illustrated below. Alternative methods of display are permissible as long as the disclosure requirements of the section are satisfied. Furthermore, these examples were designed primarily to illustrate possible formats for presentation of the information required by the disclosure item and do not purport to illustrate the broad range of derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, and derivative commodity instruments utilized by registrants.

# Interest Rate Sensitivity
The table below provides information about the Company's derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including interest rate swaps and debt obligations. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. Weighted average variable rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the Company's reporting currency. The instrument's actual cash flows are denominated in both U.S. dollars ($US) and German deutschmarks (DM), as indicated in parentheses.
December 31, 19X1
Expected maturity date
19X2
19X3
19X4
19X5
19X6
Thereafter
Total
Fair
value
Liabilities
(US$ Equivalent in millions)
Long-term Debt:
Fixed Rate ($US)
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
Average interest rate
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
Fixed Rate (DM)
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
Average interest rate
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
Variable Rate ($US)
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
Average interest rate
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
Interest Rate Derivatives
(In millions)
Interest Rate Swaps:
Variable to Fixed ($US)
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
Average pay rate
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
Average receive rate
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
Fixed to Variable ($US)
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
Average pay rate
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
Average receive rate
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%
X.X%

# Exchange Rate Sensitivity
The table below provides information about the Company's derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments, and firmly committed sales transactions by functional currency and presents such information in U.S. dollar equivalents.
1
The table summarizes information on instruments and transactions that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates, including foreign currency forward exchange agreements, deutschmark (DM)-denominated debt obligations, and firmly committed DM sales transactions. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For firmly committed DM-sales transactions, sales amounts are presented by the expected transaction date, which are not expected to exceed two years. For foreign currency forward exchange agreements, the table presents the notional amounts and weighted average exchange rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. These notional amounts generally are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract.
1
The information is presented in U.S. dollars because that is the registrant's reporting currency.
December 31, 19X1
Expected maturity date
19X2
19X3
19X4
19X5
19X6
Thereafter
Total
Fair
value
On-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments
(US$ Equivalent in millions)
$US Functional Currency
2
:
Liabilities
Long-Term Debt:
Fixed Rate (DM)
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
Average interest rate
X.X
X.X
X.X
X.X
X.X
X.X
X.X
Expected maturity or transaction date
Anticipated Transactions and Related Derivatives
3
(US$ Equivalent in millions)
$US Functional Currency:
Firmly committed Sales Contracts (DM)
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
$XXX
Forward Exchange Agreements
(Receive $US/Pay DM):
Contract Amount
XXX
XXX
XXX
XXX
Average Contractual Exchange Rate
X.X
X.X
X.X
2
Similar tabular information would be provided for other functional currencies.
3
Pursuant to General Instruction 4. to Items 305(a) and 305(b) of Regulation S-K, registrants may include cash flows from anticipated transactions and operating cash flows resulting from non-financial and non-commodity instruments.

# Commodity Price Sensitivity
The table below provides information about the Company's corn inventory and futures contracts that are sensitive to changes in commodity prices, specifically corn prices. For inventory, the table presents the carrying amount and fair value at December 31, 19x1. For the futures contracts the table presents the notional amounts in bushels, the weighted average contract prices, and the total dollar contract amount by expected maturity dates, the latest of which occurs one year from the reporting date. Contract amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments and quantity of corn to be exchanged under the futures contracts.
December 31, 19X1
Carrying amount
Fair
value
(In millions)
On Balance Sheet Commodity Position and Related Derivatives
Corn Inventory
4
$XXX
$XXX
Expected
maturity
Fair
1992
value
Related Derivatives
Futures Contracts (Short):
Contract Volumes (100,000 bushels)
XXX
Weighted Average Price (Per 100,000 bushels)
$X.XX
Contract Amount ($US in millions)
$XXX
$XXX
4
Pursuant to General Instruction 4. to Items 305(a) and 305(b) of Regulation S-K, registrants may include information on commodity positions, such as corn inventory.
[62 FR 6064, Feb. 10, 1997, as amended at 73 FR 958, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 18617, Apr. 23, 2009; 76 FR 50121, Aug. 12, 2011]
§ 229.306
[Reserved]
§ 229.307
(Item 307) Disclosure controls and procedures.
Disclose the conclusions of the registrant's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, regarding the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in § 240.13a-15(e) or § 240.15d-15(e) of this chapter) as of the end of the period covered by the report, based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by paragraph (b) of § 240.13a-15 or § 240.15d-15 of this chapter.
[68 FR 36663, June 18, 2003]
§ 229.308
(Item 308) Internal control over financial reporting.
(a)
Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.
Provide a report of management on the registrant's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in § 240.13a-15(f) or § 240.15d-15(f) of this chapter) that contains:
(1) A statement of management's responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the registrant;
(2) A statement identifying the framework used by management to evaluate the effectiveness of the registrant's internal control over financial reporting as required by paragraph (c) of § 240.13a-15 or § 240.15d-15 of this chapter;
(3) Management's assessment of the effectiveness of the registrant's internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the registrant's most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. This discussion must include disclosure of any material weakness in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management is not permitted to conclude that the registrant's internal control over financial reporting is effective if there are one or more material weaknesses in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
(4) If the registrant is an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter), or otherwise includes in its annual report a registered public accounting firm's attestation report on internal control over financial reporting, a statement that the registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included in the annual report containing the disclosure required by this Item has issued an attestation report on the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.
(b)
Attestation report of the registered public accounting firm.
If the registrant, other than a registrant that is an emerging growth company, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter), is an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter), provide the registered public accounting firm's attestation report on the registrant's internal control over financial reporting in the registrant's annual report containing the disclosure required by this Item.
(c)
Changes in internal control over financial reporting.
Disclose any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of § 240.13a-15 or 240.15d-15 of this chapter that occurred during the registrant's last fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.
Instructions to Item 308:
1. A registrant need not comply with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Item until it either had been required to file an annual report pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) for the prior fiscal year or had filed an annual report with the Commission for the prior fiscal year. A registrant that does not comply shall include a statement in the first annual report that it files in substantially the following form: “This annual report does not include a report of management's assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the company's registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for newly public companies.”
2. The registrant must maintain evidential matter, including documentation, to provide reasonable support for management's assessment of the effectiveness of the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.
[68 FR 36663, June 18, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 1594, Jan. 7, 2005; 71 FR 76595, Dec. 21, 2006; 72 FR 35321, June 27, 2007; 75 FR 57387, Sept. 21, 2010; 82 FR 17552, Apr. 12, 2017]

# Subpart 229.400—Management and Certain Security Holders
§ 229.401
(Item 401) Directors, executive officers, promoters and control persons.
(a)
Identification of directors.
List the names and ages of all directors of the registrant and all persons nominated
or chosen to become directors; indicate all positions and offices with the registrant held by each such person; state his term of office as director and any period(s) during which he has served as such; describe briefly any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person(s) (naming such person(s)) pursuant to which he was or is to be selected as a director or nominee.
Instructions to paragraph (a) of Item 401:
1. Do not include arrangements or understandings with directors or officers of the registrant acting solely in their capacities as such.
2. No nominee or person chosen to become a director who has not consented to act as such shall be named in response to this Item. In this regard, with respect to proxy statements, see Rule 14a-4(d) under the Exchange Act (§ 240.14a-4(d) of this chapter).
3. If the information called for by this paragraph (a) is being presented in a proxy or information statement, no information need be given respecting any director whose term of office as a director will not continue after the meeting to which the statement relates.
4. With regard to proxy statements in connection with action to be taken concerning the election of directors, if fewer nominees are named than the number fixed by or pursuant to the governing instruments, state the reasons for this procedure and that the proxies cannot be voted for a greater number of persons than the number of nominees named.
5. With regard to proxy statements in connection with action to be taken concerning the election of directors, if the solicitation is made by persons other than management, information shall be given as to nominees of the persons making the solicitation. In all other instances, information shall be given as to directors and persons nominated for election or chosen by management to become directors.
(b)
Identification of executive officers.
List the names and ages of all executive officers of the registrant and all persons chosen to become executive officers; indicate all positions and offices with the registrant held by each such person; state his term of office as officer and the period during which he has served as such and describe briefly any arrangement or understanding between him and any other person(s) (naming such person) pursuant to which he was or is to be selected as an officer.
Instructions to paragraph (b) of Item 401:
1. Do not include arrangements or understandings with directors or officers of the registrant acting solely in their capacities as such.
2. No person chosen to become an executive officer who has not consented to act as such shall be named in response to this Item.
(c)
Identification of certain significant employees.
Where the registrant employs persons such as production managers, sales managers, or research scientists who are not executive officers but who make or are expected to make significant contributions to the business of the registrant, such persons shall be identified and their background disclosed to the same extent as in the case of executive officers. Such disclosure need not be made if the registrant was subject to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or was exempt from section 13(a) by section 12(g)(2)(G) of such Act immediately prior to the filing of the registration statement, report, or statement to which this Item is applicable.
(d)
Family relationships.
State the nature of any family relationship between any director, executive officer, or person nominated or chosen by the registrant to become a director or executive officer.
Instruction to paragraph 401(d):
The term “family relationship” means any relationship by blood, marriage, or adoption, not more remote than first cousin.
(e)
Business experience
—(1)
Background.
Briefly describe the business experience during the past five years of each director, executive officer, person nominated or chosen to become a director or executive officer, and each person named in answer to paragraph (c) of Item 401, including: each person's principal occupations and employment during the past five years; the name and principal business of any corporation or other organization in which such occupations and employment were carried on; and whether such corporation or organization is a parent, subsidiary or other affiliate of the registrant. In addition, for each director or person nominated or chosen to become a director, briefly discuss the specific experience, qualifications, attributes or skills that led to the conclusion that the person should serve as a director for the registrant at the time that the disclosure is made, in light of the registrant's business and
structure. If material, this disclosure should cover more than the past five years, including information about the person's particular areas of expertise or other relevant qualifications. When an executive officer or person named in response to paragraph (c) of Item 401 has been employed by the registrant or a subsidiary of the registrant for less than five years, a brief explanation shall be included as to the nature of the responsibility undertaken by the individual in prior positions to provide adequate disclosure of his or her prior business experience. What is required is information relating to the level of his or her professional competence, which may include, depending upon the circumstances, such specific information as the size of the operation supervised.
(2)
Directorships.
Indicate any other directorships held, including any other directorships held during the past five years, held by each director or person nominated or chosen to become a director in any company with a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act or subject to the requirements of section 15(d) of such Act or any company registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1,
et seq.,
as amended, naming such company.
Instruction to Paragraph (e) of Item 401:
For the purposes of paragraph (e)(2), where the other directorships of each director or person nominated or chosen to become a director include directorships of two or more registered investment companies that are part of a “fund complex” as that term is defined in Item 22(a) of Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter), the registrant may, rather than listing each such investment company, identify the fund complex and provide the number of investment company directorships held by the director or nominee in such fund complex.
(f)
Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
Describe any of the following events that occurred during the past ten years and that are material to an evaluation of the ability or integrity of any director, person nominated to become a director or executive officer of the registrant:
(1) A petition under the Federal bankruptcy laws or any state insolvency law was filed by or against, or a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer was appointed by a court for the business or property of such person, or any partnership in which he was a general partner at or within two years before the time of such filing, or any corporation or business association of which he was an executive officer at or within two years before the time of such filing;
(2) Such person was convicted in a criminal proceeding or is a named subject of a pending criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations and other minor offenses);
(3) Such person was the subject of any order, judgment, or decree, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any court of competent jurisdiction, permanently or temporarily enjoining him from, or otherwise limiting, the following activities:
(i) Acting as a futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, floor broker, leverage transaction merchant, any other person regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or an associated person of any of the foregoing, or as an investment adviser, underwriter, broker or dealer in securities, or as an affiliated person, director or employee of any investment company, bank, savings and loan association or insurance company, or engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with such activity;
(ii) Engaging in any type of business practice; or
(iii) Engaging in any activity in connection with the purchase or sale of any security or commodity or in connection with any violation of Federal or State securities laws or Federal commodities laws;
(4) Such person was the subject of any order, judgment or decree, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any Federal or State authority barring, suspending or otherwise limiting for more than 60 days the right of such person to engage in any activity described in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, or to be associated with persons engaged in any such activity;
(5) Such person was found by a court of competent jurisdiction in a civil action or by the Commission to have violated any Federal or State securities
law, and the judgment in such civil action or finding by the Commission has not been subsequently reversed, suspended, or vacated;
(6) Such person was found by a court of competent jurisdiction in a civil action or by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to have violated any Federal commodities law, and the judgment in such civil action or finding by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has not been subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated;
(7) Such person was the subject of, or a party to, any Federal or State judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, or finding, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, relating to an alleged violation of:
(i) Any Federal or State securities or commodities law or regulation; or
(ii) Any law or regulation respecting financial institutions or insurance companies including, but not limited to, a temporary or permanent injunction, order of disgorgement or restitution, civil money penalty or temporary or permanent cease-and-desist order, or removal or prohibition order; or
(iii) Any law or regulation prohibiting mail or wire fraud or fraud in connection with any business entity; or
(8) Such person was the subject of, or a party to, any sanction or order, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any self-regulatory organization (as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26))), any registered entity (as defined in Section 1(a)(29) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1(a)(29))), or any equivalent exchange, association, entity or organization that has disciplinary authority over its members or persons associated with a member.
Instructions to paragraph (f) of Item 401:
1. For purposes of computing the ten-year period referred to in this paragraph, the date of a reportable event shall be deemed the date on which the final order, judgment or decree was entered, or the date on which any rights of appeal from preliminary orders, judgments, or decrees have lapsed. With respect to bankruptcy petitions, the computation date shall be the date of filing for uncontested petitions or the date upon which approval of a contested petition became final.
2. If any event specified in this paragraph (f) has occurred and information in regard thereto is omitted on the grounds that it is not material, the registrant may furnish to the Commission, at time of filing (or at the time preliminary materials are filed, or ten days before definitive materials are filed in preliminary filing is not required, pursuant to Rule 14a-6 or 14c-5 under the Exchange Act (§§ 240.14a-6 and 240-14c-5 of this chapter)), as supplemental information and not as part of the registration statement, report, or proxy or information statement, materials to which the omission relates, a description of the event and a statement of the reasons for the omission of information in regard thereto.
3. The registrant is permitted to explain any mitigating circumstances associated with events reported pursuant to this paragraph.
4. If the information called for by this paragraph (f) is being presented in a proxy or information statement, no information need be given respecting any director whose term of office as a director will not continue after the meeting to which the statement relates.
5. This paragraph (f)(7) shall not apply to any settlement of a civil proceeding among private litigants.
(g)
Promoters and control persons.
(1) Registrants, which have not been subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78
o
(d)) for the twelve months immediately prior to the filing of the registration statement, report, or statement to which this Item is applicable, and which had a promoter at any time during the past five fiscal years, shall describe with respect to any promoter, any of the events enumerated in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(6) of this Item that occurred during the past five years and that are material to a voting or investment decision.
(2) Registrants, which have not been subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act for the twelve months immediately prior to the filing of the registration statement, report, or statement to which this Item is applicable, shall describe with respect to any control person, any of the events enumerated in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(6) of this section that occurred during the past five years and that are material to a voting or investment decision.
Instructions to paragraph (g) of Item 401:
1. Instructions 1. through 3. to paragraph (f) shall apply to this paragraph (g).
2. Paragraph (g) shall not apply to any subsidiary of a registrant which has been reporting pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act for the twelve months immediately prior to the filing of the registration statement, report or statement.
Instruction to Item 401.
The information regarding executive officers called for by this Item need not be furnished in proxy or information statements prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A or Schedule 14C under the Exchange Act (§ 240.14a-101 and § 240.14c-101 of this chapter) if you are relying on General Instruction G of Form 10-K under the Exchange Act (§ 249.310 of this chapter), such information is furnished in a separate section captioned “Information about our Executive Officers,” and is included in Part I of your annual report on Form 10-K.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 55665, Dec. 13, 1982; 48 FR 19874, May 3, 1983; 49 FR 32763, Aug. 16, 1984; 52 FR 48982, Dec. 29, 1987; 59 FR 52695, Oct. 19, 1994; 70 FR 1594, Jan. 7, 2005; 71 FR 53241, Sept. 8, 2006; 73 FR 958, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 68362, Dec. 23, 2009; 84 FR 12717, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 229.402
(Item 402) Executive compensation.
(a)
General.
(1)
Treatment of foreign private issuers.
A foreign private issuer will be deemed to comply with this Item if it provides the information required by Items 6.B, 6.E.2, and 6.F of Form 20-F (17 CFR 249.220f), with more detailed information provided if otherwise made publicly available or required to be disclosed by the issuer's home jurisdiction or a market in which its securities are listed or traded, or paragraph (19) of General Instruction B of Form 40-F (17 CFR 249.240f), as applicable. A foreign private issuer that elects to provide domestic Item 402 disclosure must provide the disclosure required by Item 402(w) in its annual report or registration statement, as applicable.
(2)
All compensation covered.
This Item requires clear, concise and understandable disclosure of all plan and non-plan compensation awarded to, earned by, or paid to the named executive officers designated under paragraph (a)(3) of this Item, and directors covered by paragraph (k) of this Item, by any person for all services rendered in all capacities to the registrant and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise specifically excluded from disclosure in this Item. All such compensation shall be reported pursuant to this Item, even if also called for by another requirement, including transactions between the registrant and a third party where a purpose of the transaction is to furnish compensation to any such named executive officer or director. No amount reported as compensation for one fiscal year need be reported in the same manner as compensation for a subsequent fiscal year; amounts reported as compensation for one fiscal year may be required to be reported in a different manner pursuant to this Item.
(3)
Persons covered.
Disclosure shall be provided pursuant to this Item for each of the following (the “named executive officers”):
(i) All individuals serving as the registrant's principal executive officer or acting in a similar capacity during the last completed fiscal year (“PEO”), regardless of compensation level;
(ii) All individuals serving as the registrant's principal financial officer or acting in a similar capacity during the last completed fiscal year (“PFO”), regardless of compensation level;
(iii) The registrant's three most highly compensated executive officers other than the PEO and PFO who were serving as executive officers at the end of the last completed fiscal year; and
(iv) Up to two additional individuals for whom disclosure would have been provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this Item but for the fact that the individual was not serving as an executive officer of the registrant at the end of the last completed fiscal year.
Instructions to Item 402(a)(3).
1.
Determination of most highly compensated executive officers.
The determination as to which executive officers are most highly compensated shall be made by reference to total compensation for the last completed fiscal year (as required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(x) of this Item) reduced by the amount required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(viii) of this Item,
provided, however,
that no disclosure need be provided for any executive officer, other than the PEO and PFO, whose total compensation, as so reduced, does not exceed $100,000.
2.
Inclusion of executive officer of subsidiary.
It may be appropriate for a registrant to include as named executive officers one or more executive officers or other employees of subsidiaries in the disclosure required by this Item. See Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.3b-7).
3.
Exclusion of executive officer due to overseas compensation.
It may be appropriate in limited circumstances for a registrant not to include in the disclosure required by this Item an individual, other than its PEO or PFO, who is one of the registrant's most highly compensated executive officers due to the payment of amounts of cash compensation relating to overseas assignments attributed predominantly to such assignments.
(4)
Information for full fiscal year.
If the PEO or PFO served in that capacity during any part of a fiscal year with respect to which information is required, information should be provided as to all of his or her compensation for the full fiscal year. If a named executive officer (other than the PEO or PFO) served as an executive officer of the registrant (whether or not in the same position) during any part of the fiscal year with respect to which information is required, information shall be provided as to all compensation of that individual for the full fiscal year.
(5)
Omission of table or column.
A table or column may be omitted if there has been no compensation awarded to, earned by, or paid to any of the named executive officers or directors required to be reported in that table or column in any fiscal year covered by that table.
(6)
Definitions.
For purposes of this Item:
(i) The term
stock
means instruments such as common stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units, phantom stock, phantom stock units, common stock equivalent units or any similar instruments that do not have option-like features, and the term
option
means instruments such as stock options, stock appreciation rights and similar instruments with option-like features. The term
stock appreciation rights
(“
SARs
”) refers to SARs payable in cash or stock, including SARs payable in cash or stock at the election of the registrant or a named executive officer. The term
equity
is used to refer generally to stock and/or options.
(ii) The term
plan
includes, but is not limited to, the following: Any plan, contract, authorization or arrangement, whether or not set forth in any formal document, pursuant to which cash, securities, similar instruments, or any other property may be received. A plan may be applicable to one person. Except with respect to the disclosure required by paragraph (t) of this Item, registrants may omit information regarding group life, health, hospitalization, or medical reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in scope, terms or operation, in favor of executive officers or directors of the registrant and that are available generally to all salaried employees.
(iii) The term
incentive plan
means any plan providing compensation intended to serve as incentive for performance to occur over a specified period, whether such performance is measured by reference to financial performance of the registrant or an affiliate, the registrant's stock price, or any other performance measure. An
equity incentive plan
is an incentive plan or portion of an incentive plan under which awards are granted that fall within the scope of FASB ASC Topic 718,
Compensation—Stock Compensation.
A
non-equity incentive plan
is an incentive plan or portion of an incentive plan that is not an equity incentive plan. The term
incentive plan award
means an award provided under an incentive plan.
(iv) The terms
date of grant
or
grant date
refer to the grant date determined for financial statement reporting purposes pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 718.
(v)
Closing market price
is defined as the price at which the registrant's security was last sold in the principal United States market for such security as of the date for which the closing market price is determined.
(b)
Compensation discussion and analysis.
(1) Discuss the compensation awarded to, earned by, or paid to the named executive officers. The discussion shall explain all material elements of the registrant's compensation of the named executive officers. The discussion shall describe the following:
(i) The objectives of the registrant's compensation programs;
(ii) What the compensation program is designed to reward;
(iii) Each element of compensation;
(iv) Why the registrant chooses to pay each element;
(v) How the registrant determines the amount (and, where applicable, the formula) for each element to pay;
(vi) How each compensation element and the registrant's decisions regarding that element fit into the registrant's overall compensation objectives and affect decisions regarding other elements; and
(vii) Whether and, if so, how the registrant has considered the results of the most recent shareholder advisory vote on executive compensation required by section 14A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78n-1) or § 240.14a-20 of this chapter in determining compensation policies and decisions and, if so, how that consideration has affected the registrant's executive compensation decisions and policies.
(2) While the material information to be disclosed under Compensation Discussion and Analysis will vary depending upon the facts and circumstances, examples of such information may include, in a given case, among other things, the following:
(i) The policies for allocating between long-term and currently paid out compensation;
(ii) The policies for allocating between cash and non-cash compensation, and among different forms of non-cash compensation;
(iii) For long-term compensation, the basis for allocating compensation to each different form of award (such as relationship of the award to the achievement of the registrant's long-term goals, management's exposure to downside equity performance risk, correlation between cost to registrant and expected benefits to the registrant);
(iv) How the determination is made as to when awards are granted, including awards of equity-based compensation such as options;
(v) What specific items of corporate performance are taken into account in setting compensation policies and making compensation decisions;
(vi) How specific forms of compensation are structured and implemented to reflect these items of the registrant's performance, including whether discretion can be or has been exercised (either to award compensation absent attainment of the relevant performance goal(s) or to reduce or increase the size of any award or payout), identifying any particular exercise of discretion, and stating whether it applied to one or more specified named executive officers or to all compensation subject to the relevant performance goal(s);
(vii) How specific forms of compensation are structured and implemented to reflect the named executive officer's individual performance and/or individual contribution to these items of the registrant's performance, describing the elements of individual performance and/or contribution that are taken into account;
(viii) Registrant policies and decisions regarding the adjustment or recovery of awards or payments if the relevant registrant performance measures upon which they are based are restated or otherwise adjusted in a manner that would reduce the size of an award or payment;
(ix) The factors considered in decisions to increase or decrease compensation materially;
(x) How compensation or amounts realizable from prior compensation are considered in setting other elements of compensation (e.g., how gains from prior option or stock awards are considered in setting retirement benefits);
(xi) With respect to any contract, agreement, plan or arrangement, whether written or unwritten, that provides for payment(s) at, following, or in connection with any termination or change-in-control, the basis for selecting particular events as triggering payment (e.g., the rationale for providing a single trigger for payment in the event of a change-in-control);
(xii) The impact of the accounting and tax treatments of the particular form of compensation;
(xiii) The registrant's equity or other security ownership requirements or guidelines (specifying applicable amounts and forms of ownership), and any registrant policies regarding hedging the economic risk of such ownership;
(xiv) Whether the registrant engaged in any benchmarking of total compensation, or any material element of compensation, identifying the benchmark and, if applicable, its components (including component companies); and
(xv) The role of executive officers in determining executive compensation.
Instructions to Item 402(b).
1. The purpose of the Compensation Discussion and Analysis is
to provide to investors material information that is necessary to an understanding of the registrant's compensation policies and decisions regarding the named executive officers.
2. The Compensation Discussion and Analysis should be of the information contained in the tables and otherwise disclosed pursuant to this Item. The Compensation Discussion and Analysis should also cover actions regarding executive compensation that were taken after the registrant's last fiscal year's end. Actions that should be addressed might include, as examples only, the adoption or implementation of new or modified programs and policies or specific decisions that were made or steps that were taken that could affect a fair understanding of the named executive officer's compensation for the last fiscal year. Moreover, in some situations it may be necessary to discuss prior years in order to give context to the disclosure provided.
3. The Compensation Discussion and Analysis should focus on the material principles underlying the registrant's executive compensation policies and decisions and the most important factors relevant to analysis of those policies and decisions. The Compensation Discussion and Analysis shall reflect the individual circumstances of the registrant and shall avoid boilerplate language and repetition of the more detailed information set forth in the tables and narrative disclosures that follow.
4. Registrants are not required to disclose target levels with respect to specific quantitative or qualitative performance-related factors considered by the compensation committee or the board of directors, or any other factors or criteria involving confidential trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information, the disclosure of which would result in competitive harm for the registrant. The standard to use when determining whether disclosure would cause competitive harm for the registrant is the same standard that would apply when a registrant requests confidential treatment of confidential trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information pursuant to Securities Act Rule 406 (17 CFR 230.406) and Exchange Act Rule 24b-2 (17 CFR 240.24b-2), each of which incorporates the criteria for non-disclosure when relying upon Exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4)). A registrant is not required to seek confidential treatment under the procedures in Securities Act Rule 406 and Exchange Act Rule 24b-2 if it determines that the disclosure would cause competitive harm in reliance on this instruction; however, in that case, the registrant must discuss how difficult it will be for the executive or how likely it will be for the registrant to achieve the undisclosed target levels or other factors.
5. Disclosure of target levels that are non-GAAP financial measures will not be subject to Regulation G (17 CFR 244.100—102) and Item 10(e) (§ 229.10(e)); however, disclosure must be provided as to how the number is calculated from the registrant's audited financial statements.
6. In proxy or information statements with respect to the election of directors, if the information disclosed pursuant to Item 407(i) would satisfy paragraph (b)(2)(xiii) of this Item, a registrant may refer to the information disclosed pursuant to Item 407(i).
(c)
Summary compensation table
—(1)
General.
Provide the information specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this Item, concerning the compensation of the named executive officers for each of the registrant's last three completed fiscal years, in a Summary Compensation Table in the tabular format specified below.
Summary Compensation Table
Name and principal position
Year
Salary
($)
Bonus
($)
Stock awards
($)
Option awards
($)
Non-equity
incentive plan compensation
($)
Change in pension value and nonqualified deferred compensation earnings
($)
All other compensation
($)
Total
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
PEO
PFO
A
B
C
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name and principal position of the named executive officer (column (a));
(ii) The fiscal year covered (column (b));
(iii) The dollar value of base salary (cash and non-cash) earned by the named executive officer during the fiscal year covered (column (c));
(iv) The dollar value of bonus (cash and non-cash) earned by the named executive officer during the fiscal year covered (column (d));
Instructions to Item 402(c)(2)(iii) and (iv).
1. If the amount of salary or bonus earned in a given fiscal year is not calculable through the latest practicable date, a footnote shall be included disclosing that the amount of salary or bonus is not calculable through the latest practicable date and providing the date that the amount of salary or bonus is expected to be determined, and such amount must then be disclosed in a filing under Item 5.02(f) of Form 8-K (17 CFR 249.308).
2. Registrants shall include in the salary column (column (c)) or bonus column (column (d)) any amount of salary or bonus forgone at the election of a named executive officer under which stock, equity-based or other forms of non-cash compensation instead have been received by the named executive officer. However, the receipt of any such form of non-cash compensation instead of salary or bonus must be disclosed in a footnote added to the salary or bonus column and, where applicable, referring to the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table (required by paragraph (d) of this Item) where the stock, option or non-equity incentive plan award elected by the named executive officer is reported.
(v) For awards of stock, the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (e));
(vi) For awards of options, with or without tandem SARs (including awards that subsequently have been transferred), the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (f));
Instruction 1 to Item 402(c)(2)(v) and (vi).
For awards reported in columns (e) and (f), include a footnote disclosing all assumptions made in the valuation by reference to a discussion of those assumptions in the registrant's financial statements, footnotes to the financial statements, or discussion in the Management's Discussion and Analysis. The sections so referenced are deemed part of the disclosure provided pursuant to this Item.
Instruction 2 to Item 402(c)(2)(v) and (vi).
If at any time during the last completed fiscal year, the registrant has adjusted or amended the exercise price of options or SARs previously awarded to a named executive officer, whether through amendment, cancellation or replacement grants, or any other means (“repriced”), or otherwise has materially modified such awards, the registrant shall include, as awards required to be reported in column (f), the incremental fair value, computed as of the repricing or modification date in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718, with respect to that repriced or modified award.
Instruction 3 to Item 402(c)(2)(v) and (vi).
For any awards that are subject to performance conditions, report the value at the grant date based upon the probable outcome of such conditions. This amount should be consistent with the estimate of aggregate compensation cost to be recognized over the service period determined as of the grant date under FASB ASC Topic 718, excluding the effect of estimated forfeitures. In a footnote to the table, disclose the value of the award at the grant date assuming that the highest level of performance conditions will be achieved if an amount less than the maximum was included in the table.
(vii) The dollar value of all earnings for services performed during the fiscal year pursuant to awards under non-equity incentive plans as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this Item, and all earnings on any outstanding awards (column (g));
Instructions to Item 402(c)(2)(vii).
1. If the relevant performance measure is satisfied during the fiscal year (including for a single year in a plan with a multi-year performance measure), the earnings are reportable for that fiscal year, even if not payable until a later date, and are not reportable again in the fiscal year when amounts are paid to the named executive officer.
2. All earnings on non-equity incentive plan compensation must be identified and quantified in a footnote to column (g), whether the earnings were paid during the fiscal year, payable during the period but deferred at the election of the named executive officer, or payable by their terms at a later date.
(viii) The sum of the amounts specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(viii)(A) and (B) of this Item (column (h)) as follows:
(A) The aggregate change in the actuarial present value of the named executive officer's accumulated benefit under all defined benefit and actuarial pension plans (including supplemental plans) from the pension plan measurement date used for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the registrant's audited financial statements for the prior completed fiscal year to the pension plan measurement date used for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the registrant's audited financial statements for the covered fiscal year; and
(B) Above-market or preferential earnings on compensation that is deferred on a basis that is not tax-qualified, including such earnings on nonqualified defined contribution plans;
Instructions to Item 402(c)(2)(viii).
1. The disclosure required pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(A) of this Item applies to each plan that provides for the payment of retirement benefits, or benefits that will be paid primarily following retirement, including but not limited to tax-qualified defined benefit plans and supplemental executive retirement plans, but excluding tax-qualified defined contribution plans and nonqualified defined contribution plans. For purposes of this disclosure, the registrant should use the same amounts required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this Item for the covered fiscal year and the amounts that were or would have been required to be reported for the executive officer pursuant to paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this Item for the prior completed fiscal year.
2. Regarding paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(B) of this Item, interest on deferred compensation is above-market only if the rate of interest exceeds 120% of the applicable federal long-term rate, with compounding (as prescribed under section 1274(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, (26 U.S.C. 1274(d))) at the rate that corresponds most closely to the rate under the registrant's plan at the time the interest rate or formula is set. In the event of a discretionary reset of the interest rate, the requisite calculation must be made on the basis of the interest rate at the time of such reset, rather than when originally established. Only the above-market portion of the interest must be included. If the applicable interest rates vary depending upon conditions such as a minimum period of continued service, the reported amount should be calculated assuming satisfaction of all conditions to receiving interest at the highest rate. Dividends (and dividend equivalents) on deferred compensation denominated in the registrant's stock (“deferred stock”) are preferential only if earned at a rate higher than dividends on the registrant's common stock. Only the preferential portion of the dividends or equivalents must be included. Footnote or narrative disclosure may be provided explaining the registrant's criteria for determining any portion considered to be above-market.
3. The registrant shall identify and quantify by footnote the separate amounts attributable to each of paragraphs (c)(2)(viii)(A) and (B) of this Item. Where such amount pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(A) is negative, it should be disclosed by footnote but should not be reflected in the sum reported in column (h).
(ix) All other compensation for the covered fiscal year that the registrant could not properly report in any other column of the Summary Compensation
Table (column (i)). Each compensation item that is not properly reportable in columns (c)-(h), regardless of the amount of the compensation item, must be included in column (i). Such compensation must include, but is not limited to:
(A) Perquisites and other personal benefits, or property, unless the aggregate amount of such compensation is less than $10,000;
(B) All “gross-ups” or other amounts reimbursed during the fiscal year for the payment of taxes;
(C) For any security of the registrant or its subsidiaries purchased from the registrant or its subsidiaries (through deferral of salary or bonus, or otherwise) at a discount from the market price of such security at the date of purchase, unless that discount is available generally, either to all security holders or to all salaried employees of the registrant, the compensation cost, if any, computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718;
(D) The amount paid or accrued to any named executive officer pursuant to a plan or arrangement in connection with:
(
1
) Any termination, including without limitation through retirement, resignation, severance or constructive termination (including a change in responsibilities) of such executive officer's employment with the registrant and its subsidiaries; or
(
2
) A change in control of the registrant;
(E) Registrant contributions or other allocations to vested and unvested defined contribution plans;
(F) The dollar value of any insurance premiums paid by, or on behalf of, the registrant during the covered fiscal year with respect to life insurance for the benefit of a named executive officer; and
(G) The dollar value of any dividends or other earnings paid on stock or option awards, when those amounts were not factored into the grant date fair value required to be reported for the stock or option award in column (e) or (f); and
Instructions to Item 402(c)(2)(ix).
1. Non-equity incentive plan awards and earnings and earnings on stock and options, except as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ix)(G) of this Item, are required to be reported elsewhere as provided in this Item and are not reportable as All Other Compensation in column (i).
2. Benefits paid pursuant to defined benefit and actuarial plans are not reportable as All Other Compensation in column (i) unless accelerated pursuant to a change in control; information concerning these plans is reportable pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2)(viii)(A) and (h) of this Item.
3. Any item reported for a named executive officer pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this Item that is not a perquisite or personal benefit and whose value exceeds $10,000 must be identified and quantified in a footnote to column (i). This requirement applies only to compensation for the last fiscal year. All items of compensation are required to be included in the Summary Compensation Table without regard to whether such items are required to be identified other than as specifically noted in this Item.
4. Perquisites and personal benefits may be excluded as long as the total value of all perquisites and personal benefits for a named executive officer is less than $10,000. If the total value of all perquisites and personal benefits is $10,000 or more for any named executive officer, then each perquisite or personal benefit, regardless of its amount, must be identified by type. If perquisites and personal benefits are required to be reported for a named executive officer pursuant to this rule, then each perquisite or personal benefit that exceeds the greater of $25,000 or 10% of the total amount of perquisites and personal benefits for that officer must be quantified and disclosed in a footnote. The requirements for identification and quantification apply only to compensation for the last fiscal year. Perquisites and other personal benefits shall be valued on the basis of the aggregate incremental cost to the registrant. With respect to the perquisite or other personal benefit for which footnote quantification is required, the registrant shall describe in the footnote its methodology for computing the aggregate incremental cost. Reimbursements of taxes owed with respect to perquisites or other personal benefits must be included in column (i) and are subject to separate quantification and identification as tax reimbursements (paragraph (c)(2)(ix)(B) of this Item) even if the associated perquisites or other personal benefits are not required to be included because the total amount of all perquisites or personal benefits for an individual named executive officer is less than $10,000 or are required to be identified but are not required to be separately quantified.
5. For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(ix)(D) of this Item, an accrued amount is an amount for which payment has become due.
(x) The dollar value of total compensation for the covered fiscal year
(column (j)). With respect to each named executive officer, disclose the sum of all amounts reported in columns (c) through (i).
Instructions to Item 402(c).
1. Information with respect to fiscal years prior to the last completed fiscal year will not be required if the registrant was not a reporting company pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) at any time during that year, except that the registrant will be required to provide information for any such year if that information previously was required to be provided in response to a Commission filing requirement.
2. All compensation values reported in the Summary Compensation Table must be reported in dollars and rounded to the nearest dollar. Reported compensation values must be reported numerically, providing a single numerical value for each grid in the table. Where compensation was paid to or received by a named executive officer in a different currency, a footnote must be provided to identify that currency and describe the rate and methodology used to convert the payment amounts to dollars.
3. If a named executive officer is also a director who receives compensation for his or her services as a director, reflect that compensation in the Summary Compensation Table and provide a footnote identifying and itemizing such compensation and amounts. Use the categories in the Director Compensation Table required pursuant to paragraph (k) of this Item.
4. Any amounts deferred, whether pursuant to a plan established under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401(k)), or otherwise, shall be included in the appropriate column for the fiscal year in which earned.
5. Reduce the amount reported in the applicable Summary Compensation Table column for the fiscal year in which the amount recovered initially was reported as compensation by any amounts recovered pursuant to the compensation recovery policy required by the listing standards adopted pursuant to 17 CFR 240.10D-1, and identify such amounts by footnote.
(d)
Grants of plan-based awards table.
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this Item, concerning each grant of an award made to a named executive officer in the last completed fiscal year under any plan, including awards that subsequently have been transferred, in the following tabular format:
Grants of Plan-Based Awards
Name
Grant date
Estimated future payouts under non-equity incentive plan awards
Threshold
($)
Target
($)
Maximum
($)
Estimated future payouts under equity incentive plan awards
Threshold
(#)
Target
(#)
Maximum
(#)
All other stock awards: Number of shares of stock or units
(#)
All other option awards: Number of securities underlying options
(#)
Exercise or base price of option awards
($/Sh)
Grant date fair value of stock and option awards
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
PEO
PFO
A
B
C
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name of the named executive officer (column (a));
(ii) The grant date for equity-based awards reported in the table (column (b)). If such grant date is different than the date on which the compensation committee (or a committee of the board of directors performing a similar function or the full board of directors) takes action or is deemed to take action to grant such awards, a separate, adjoining column shall be added between columns (b) and (c) showing such date;
(iii) The dollar value of the estimated future payout upon satisfaction of the
conditions in question under non-equity incentive plan awards granted in the fiscal year, or the applicable range of estimated payouts denominated in dollars (threshold, target and maximum amount) (columns (c) through (e));
(iv) The number of shares of stock, or the number of shares underlying options to be paid out or vested upon satisfaction of the conditions in question under equity incentive plan awards granted in the fiscal year, or the applicable range of estimated payouts denominated in the number of shares of stock, or the number of shares underlying options under the award (threshold, target and maximum amount) (columns (f) through (h));
(v) The number of shares of stock granted in the fiscal year that are not required to be disclosed in columns (f) through (h) (column (i));
(vi) The number of securities underlying options granted in the fiscal year that are not required to be disclosed in columns (f) through (h) (column (j));
(vii) The per-share exercise or base price of the options granted in the fiscal year (column (k)). If such exercise or base price is less than the closing market price of the underlying security on the date of the grant, a separate, adjoining column showing the closing market price on the date of the grant shall be added after column (k) and
(viii) The grant date fair value of each equity award computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (
l
)). If at any time during the last completed fiscal year, the registrant has adjusted or amended the exercise or base price of options, SARs or similar option-like instruments previously awarded to a named executive officer, whether through amendment, cancellation or replacement grants, or any other means (“repriced”), or otherwise has materially modified such awards, the incremental fair value, computed as of the repricing or modification date in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718, with respect to that repriced or modified award, shall be reported.
Instructions to Item 402(d).
1. Disclosure on a separate line shall be provided in the Table for each grant of an award made to a named executive officer during the fiscal year. If grants of awards were made to a named executive officer during the fiscal year under more than one plan, identify the particular plan under which each such grant was made.
2. For grants of incentive plan awards, provide the information called for by columns (c), (d) and (e), or (f), (g) and (h), as applicable. For columns (c) and (f),
threshold
refers to the minimum amount payable for a certain level of performance under the plan. For columns (d) and (g),
target
refers to the amount payable if the specified performance target(s) are reached. For columns (e) and (h),
maximum
refers to the maximum payout possible under the plan. If the award provides only for a single estimated payout, that amount must be reported as the
target
in columns (d) and (g). In columns (d) and (g), registrants must provide a representative amount based on the previous fiscal year's performance if the target amount is not determinable.
3. In determining if the exercise or base price of an option is less than the closing market price of the underlying security on the date of the grant, the registrant may use either the closing market price as specified in paragraph (a)(6)(v) of this Item, or if no market exists, any other formula prescribed for the security. Whenever the exercise or base price reported in column (k) is not the closing market price, describe the methodology for determining the exercise or base price either by a footnote or accompanying textual narrative.
4. A tandem grant of two instruments, only one of which is granted under an incentive plan, such as an option granted in tandem with a performance share, need be reported only in column (i) or (j), as applicable. For example, an option granted in tandem with a performance share would be reported only as an option grant in column (j), with the tandem feature noted either by a footnote or accompanying textual narrative.
5. Disclose the dollar amount of consideration, if any, paid by the executive officer for the award in a footnote to the appropriate column.
6. If non-equity incentive plan awards are denominated in units or other rights, a separate, adjoining column between columns (b) and (c) shall be added quantifying the units or other rights awarded.
7. Options, SARs and similar option-like instruments granted in connection with a repricing transaction or other material modification shall be reported in this Table. However, the disclosure required by this Table does not apply to any repricing that occurs through a pre-existing formula or mechanism in the plan or award that results in the periodic adjustment of the option or SAR exercise or base price, an antidilution provision in a plan or award, or a recapitalization or similar transaction equally affecting all
holders of the class of securities underlying the options or SARs.
8. For any equity awards that are subject to performance conditions, report in column (l) the value at the grant date based upon the probable outcome of such conditions. This amount should be consistent with the estimate of aggregate compensation cost to be recognized over the service period determined as of the grant date under FASB ASC Topic 718, excluding the effect of estimated forfeitures.
(e)
Narrative disclosure to summary compensation table and grants of plan-based awards table.
(1) Provide a narrative description of any material factors necessary to an understanding of the information disclosed in the tables required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Item. Examples of such factors may include, in given cases, among other things:
(i) The material terms of each named executive officer's employment agreement or arrangement, whether written or unwritten;
(ii) If at any time during the last fiscal year, any outstanding option or other equity-based award was repriced or otherwise materially modified (such as by extension of exercise periods, the change of vesting or forfeiture conditions, the change or elimination of applicable performance criteria, or the change of the bases upon which returns are determined), a description of each such repricing or other material modification;
(iii) The material terms of any award reported in response to paragraph (d) of this Item, including a general description of the formula or criteria to be applied in determining the amounts payable, and the vesting schedule. For example, state where applicable that dividends will be paid on stock, and if so, the applicable dividend rate and whether that rate is preferential. Describe any performance-based conditions, and any other material conditions, that are applicable to the award. For purposes of the Table required by paragraph (d) of this Item and the narrative disclosure required by paragraph (e) of this Item, performance-based conditions include both performance conditions and market conditions, as those terms are defined in FASB ASC Topic 718; and
(iv) An explanation of the amount of salary and bonus in proportion to total compensation.
Instructions to Item 402(e)(1).
1. The disclosure required by paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this Item would not apply to any repricing that occurs through a pre-existing formula or mechanism in the plan or award that results in the periodic adjustment of the option or SAR exercise or base price, an antidilution provision in a plan or award, or a recapitalization or similar transaction equally affecting all holders of the class of securities underlying the options or SARs.
2. Instructions 4 and 5 to Item 402(b) apply regarding disclosure pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this Item of target levels with respect to specific quantitative or qualitative performance-related factors considered by the compensation committee or the board of directors, or any other factors or criteria involving confidential trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information, the disclosure of which would result in competitive harm for the registrant.
(2) [Reserved]
(f)
Outstanding equity awards at fiscal year-end table.
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this Item, concerning unexercised options; stock that has not vested; and equity incentive plan awards for each named executive officer outstanding as of the end of the registrant's last completed fiscal year in the following tabular format:
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End
Name
Option awards
Number of securities underlying unexercised options
(#) exercisable
Number of securities underlying unexercised options
(#) unexercisable
Equity incentive plan awards: number of securities underlying unexercised unearned options
(#)
Option exercise price
($)
Option expiration date
Stock awards
Number of shares or units of stock that have not vested
(#)
Market value of shares or units of stock that have not vested
(#)
Equity incentive plan awards: number of unearned shares, units or other rights that have not vested
(#)
Equity incentive plan awards: market or payout value of unearned shares, units or other rights that have not vested
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
PEO
PFO
A
B
C
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name of the named executive officer (column (a));
(ii) On an award-by-award basis, the number of securities underlying unexercised options, including awards that have been transferred other than for value, that are exercisable and that are not reported in column (d) (column (b));
(iii) On an award-by-award basis, the number of securities underlying unexercised options, including awards that have been transferred other than for value, that are unexercisable and that are not reported in column (d) (column (c));
(iv) On an award-by-award basis, the total number of shares underlying unexercised options awarded under any equity incentive plan that have not been earned (column (d));
(v) For each instrument reported in columns (b), (c) and (d), as applicable, the exercise or base price (column (e));
(vi) For each instrument reported in columns (b), (c) and (d), as applicable, the expiration date (column (f));
(vii) The total number of shares of stock that have not vested and that are not reported in column (i) (column (g));
(viii) The aggregate market value of shares of stock that have not vested and that are not reported in column (j) (column (h));
(ix) The total number of shares of stock, units or other rights awarded under any equity incentive plan that have not vested and that have not been earned, and, if applicable the number of shares underlying any such unit or right (column (i)); and
(x) The aggregate market or payout value of shares of stock, units or other rights awarded under any equity incentive plan that have not vested and that have not been earned (column (j)).
Instructions to Item 402(f)(2).
1. Identify by footnote any award that has been transferred other than for value, disclosing the nature of the transfer.
2. The vesting dates of options, shares of stock and equity incentive plan awards held at fiscal-year end must be disclosed by footnote to the applicable column where the outstanding award is reported.
3. Compute the market value of stock reported in column (h) and equity incentive plan awards of stock reported in column (j) by multiplying the closing market price of the registrant's stock at the end of the last completed fiscal year by the number of shares or units of stock or the amount of equity incentive plan awards, respectively. The number of shares or units reported in columns (d) or (i), and the payout value reported in column (j), shall be based on achieving threshold performance goals, except that if the previous fiscal year's performance has exceeded the threshold, the disclosure shall be based on the next higher performance measure (target or maximum) that exceeds the previous fiscal year's performance. If the award provides only for a single estimated payout, that amount should be reported. If the target amount is not determinable, registrants must provide a representative amount based on the previous fiscal year's performance.
4. Multiple awards may be aggregated where the expiration date and the exercise and/or base price of the instruments is identical. A single award consisting of a combination of options, SARs and/or similar option-like instruments shall be reported as separate awards with respect to each tranche with a different exercise and/or base price or expiration date.
5. Options or stock awarded under an equity incentive plan are reported in columns (d) or (i) and (j), respectively, until the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. Once the relevant performance condition has been satisfied, even if the option or stock award is subject to forfeiture conditions, options are reported in column (b) or (c), as appropriate, until they are exercised or expire, or stock is reported in columns (g) and (h) until it vests.
(g)
Option exercises and stock vested table.
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this Item, concerning each exercise of stock options, SARs and similar instruments, and each vesting of stock, including restricted stock, restricted stock units and similar instruments, during the last completed fiscal year for each of the named executive officers on an aggregated basis in the following tabular format:
Option Exercises and Stock Vested
Name
Option awards
Number of shares
acquired on
exercise
(#)
Value
realized on
exercise
($)
Stock awards
Number of shares
acquired on vesting
(#)
Value
realized on
vesting
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
PEO
PFO
A
B
C
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name of the executive officer (column (a));
(ii) The number of securities for which the options were exercised (column (b));
(iii) The aggregate dollar value realized upon exercise of options, or upon the transfer of an award for value (column (c));
(iv) The number of shares of stock that have vested (column (d)); and
(v) The aggregate dollar value realized upon vesting of stock, or upon the transfer of an award for value (column (e)).
Instruction to Item 402(g)(2).
Report in column (c) the aggregate dollar amount realized by the named executive officer upon exercise of the options or upon the transfer of such instruments for value. Compute the dollar amount realized upon exercise by determining the difference between the market price of the underlying securities at exercise and the exercise or base price of the options. Do not include the value of any related payment or other consideration provided (or to be provided) by the registrant to or on behalf of a named executive officer, whether in payment of the exercise price or related taxes. (Any such payment or other consideration provided by the registrant is required to be disclosed in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this Item.) Report in column (e) the aggregate dollar amount realized by the named executive officer upon the vesting of stock or the transfer of such instruments for value. Compute the aggregate dollar amount realized upon vesting by multiplying the number of shares of stock or units by the market value of the underlying shares on the vesting date. For any amount realized upon exercise or vesting for which receipt has been deferred, provide a footnote quantifying the amount and disclosing the terms of the deferral.
(h)
Pension benefits.
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this Item with respect to each plan that provides for payments or other benefits at, following, or in connection with retirement, in the following tabular format:
Pension Benefits
Name
Plan name
Number of years credited service
(#)
Present value of
accumulated benefit
($)
Payments during last fiscal year
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
PEO
PFO
A
B
C
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name of the executive officer (column (a));
(ii) The name of the plan (column (b));
(iii) The number of years of service credited to the named executive officer under the plan, computed as of the same pension plan measurement date used for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the registrant's audited financial statements for the last completed fiscal year (column (c));
(iv) The actuarial present value of the named executive officer's accumulated benefit under the plan, computed as of the same pension plan measurement date used for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the registrant's audited financial statements for the last completed fiscal year (column (d)); and
(v) The dollar amount of any payments and benefits paid to the named executive officer during the registrant's last completed fiscal year (column (e)).
Instructions to Item 402(h)(2).
1. The disclosure required pursuant to this Table applies to each plan that provides for specified retirement payments and benefits, or payments and benefits that will be provided primarily following retirement, including but not limited to tax-qualified defined benefit plans and supplemental executive retirement plans, but excluding tax-qualified defined contribution plans and nonqualified defined contribution plans. Provide a separate row for each such plan in which the named executive officer participates.
2. For purposes of the amount(s) reported in column (d), the registrant must use the
same assumptions used for financial reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles, except that retirement age shall be assumed to be the normal retirement age as defined in the plan, or if not so defined, the earliest time at which a participant may retire under the plan without any benefit reduction due to age. The registrant must disclose in the accompanying textual narrative the valuation method and all material assumptions applied in quantifying the present value of the current accrued benefit. A benefit specified in the plan document or the executive's contract itself is not an assumption. Registrants may satisfy all or part of this disclosure by reference to a discussion of those assumptions in the registrant's financial statements, footnotes to the financial statements, or discussion in the Management's Discussion and Analysis. The sections so referenced are deemed part of the disclosure provided pursuant to this Item.
3. For purposes of allocating the current accrued benefit between tax qualified defined benefit plans and related supplemental plans, apply the limitations applicable to tax qualified defined benefit plans established by the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder that applied as of the pension plan measurement date.
4. If a named executive officer's number of years of credited service with respect to any plan is different from the named executive officer's number of actual years of service with the registrant, provide footnote disclosure quantifying the difference and any resulting benefit augmentation.
(3) Provide a succinct narrative description of any material factors necessary to an understanding of each plan covered by the tabular disclosure required by this paragraph. While material factors will vary depending upon the facts, examples of such factors may include, in given cases, among other things:
(i) The material terms and conditions of payments and benefits available under the plan, including the plan's normal retirement payment and benefit formula and eligibility standards, and the effect of the form of benefit elected on the amount of annual benefits. For this purpose, normal retirement means retirement at the normal retirement age as defined in the plan, or if not so defined, the earliest time at which a participant may retire under the plan without any benefit reduction due to age;
(ii) If any named executive officer is currently eligible for early retirement under any plan, identify that named executive officer and the plan, and describe the plan's early retirement payment and benefit formula and eligibility standards. For this purpose, early retirement means retirement at the early retirement age as defined in the plan, or otherwise available to the executive under the plan;
(iii) The specific elements of compensation (e.g., salary, bonus, etc.) included in applying the payment and benefit formula, identifying each such element;
(iv) With respect to named executive officers' participation in multiple plans, the different purposes for each plan; and
(v) Registrant policies with regard to such matters as granting extra years of credited service.
(i)
Nonqualified defined contribution and other nonqualified deferred compensation plans.
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this Item with respect to each defined contribution or other plan that provides for the deferral of compensation on a basis that is not tax-qualified in the following tabular format:
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
Name
Executive contributions in last FY
($)
Registrant contributions in last FY
($)
Aggregate earnings in last FY
($)
Aggregate withdrawals/distributions
($)
Aggregate balance at last FYE
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
PEO
PFO
A
B
C
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name of the executive officer (column (a));
(ii) The dollar amount of aggregate executive contributions during the registrant's last fiscal year (column (b));
(iii) The dollar amount of aggregate registrant contributions during the registrant's last fiscal year (column (c));
(iv) The dollar amount of aggregate interest or other earnings accrued during the registrant's last fiscal year (column (d));
(v) The aggregate dollar amount of all withdrawals by and distributions to the executive during the registrant's last fiscal year (column (e)); and
(vi) The dollar amount of total balance of the executive's account as of the end of the registrant's last fiscal year (column (f)).
Instruction to Item 402(i)(2).
Provide a footnote quantifying the extent to which amounts reported in the contributions and earnings columns are reported as compensation in the last completed fiscal year in the registrant's Summary Compensation Table and amounts reported in the aggregate balance at last fiscal year end (column (f)) previously were reported as compensation to the named executive officer in the registrant's Summary Compensation Table for previous years.
(3) Provide a succinct narrative description of any material factors necessary to an understanding of each plan covered by tabular disclosure required by this paragraph. While material factors will vary depending upon the facts, examples of such factors may include, in given cases, among other things:
(i) The type(s) of compensation permitted to be deferred, and any limitations (by percentage of compensation or otherwise) on the extent to which deferral is permitted;
(ii) The measures for calculating interest or other plan earnings (including whether such measure(s) are selected by the executive or the registrant and the frequency and manner in which selections may be changed), quantifying interest rates and other earnings measures applicable during the registrant's last fiscal year; and
(iii) Material terms with respect to payouts, withdrawals and other distributions.
(j)
Potential payments upon termination or change-in-control.
Regarding each contract, agreement, plan or arrangement, whether written or unwritten, that provides for payment(s) to a named executive officer at, following, or in connection with any termination, including without limitation resignation, severance, retirement or a constructive termination of a named executive officer, or a change in control of the registrant or a change in the named executive officer's responsibilities, with respect to each named executive officer:
(1) Describe and explain the specific circumstances that would trigger payment(s) or the provision of other benefits, including perquisites and health care benefits;
(2) Describe and quantify the estimated payments and benefits that would be provided in each covered circumstance, whether they would or could be lump sum, or annual, disclosing the duration, and by whom they would be provided;
(3) Describe and explain how the appropriate payment and benefit levels are determined under the various circumstances that trigger payments or provision of benefits;
(4) Describe and explain any material conditions or obligations applicable to
the receipt of payments or benefits, including but not limited to non-compete, non-solicitation, non-disparagement or confidentiality agreements, including the duration of such agreements and provisions regarding waiver of breach of such agreements; and
(5) Describe any other material factors regarding each such contract, agreement, plan or arrangement.
Instructions to Item 402(j).
1. The registrant must provide quantitative disclosure under these requirements, applying the assumptions that the triggering event took place on the last business day of the registrant's last completed fiscal year, and the price per share of the registrant's securities is the closing market price as of that date. In the event that uncertainties exist as to the provision of payments and benefits or the amounts involved, the registrant is required to make a reasonable estimate (or a reasonable estimated range of amounts) applicable to the payment or benefit and disclose material assumptions underlying such estimates or estimated ranges in its disclosure. In such event, the disclosure would require forward-looking information as appropriate.
2. Perquisites and other personal benefits or property may be excluded only if the aggregate amount of such compensation will be less than $10,000. Individual perquisites and personal benefits shall be identified and quantified as required by Instruction 4 to paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this Item. For purposes of quantifying health care benefits, the registrant must use the assumptions used for financial reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles.
3. To the extent that the form and amount of any payment or benefit that would be provided in connection with any triggering event is fully disclosed pursuant to paragraph (h) or (i) of this Item, reference may be made to that disclosure. However, to the extent that the form or amount of any such payment or benefit would be enhanced or its vesting or other provisions accelerated in connection with any triggering event, such enhancement or acceleration must be disclosed pursuant to this paragraph.
4. Where a triggering event has actually occurred for a named executive officer and that individual was not serving as a named executive officer of the registrant at the end of the last completed fiscal year, the disclosure required by this paragraph for that named executive officer shall apply only to that triggering event.
5. The registrant need not provide information with respect to contracts, agreements, plans or arrangements to the extent they do not discriminate in scope, terms or operation, in favor of executive officers of the registrant and that are available generally to all salaried employees.
(k)
Compensation of directors.
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (k)(2) of this Item, concerning the compensation of the directors for the registrant's last completed fiscal year, in the following tabular format:
Director Compensation
Name
Fees earned or paid in cash
($)
Stock awards
($)
Option awards
($)
Non-equity incentive plan compensation
($)
Change in pension value and nonqualified deferred compensation earnings
All other compensation
($)
Total
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
A
B
C
D
E
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name of each director unless such director is also a named executive officer under paragraph (a) of this Item and his or her compensation for service as a director is fully reflected in the Summary Compensation Table pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Item and otherwise as required pursuant to paragraphs (d) through (j) of this Item (column (a));
(ii) The aggregate dollar amount of all fees earned or paid in cash for services as a director, including annual retainer fees, committee and/or chairmanship fees, and meeting fees (column (b));
(iii) For awards of stock, the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (c));
(iv) For awards of options, with or without tandem SARs (including awards that subsequently have been transferred), the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (d));
Instruction to Item 402(k)(2)(iii) and (iv).
For each director, disclose by footnote to the appropriate column: the grant date fair value of each equity award computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718; for each option, SAR or similar option like instrument for which the registrant has adjusted or amended the exercise or base price during the last completed fiscal year, whether through amendment, cancellation or replacement grants, or any other means (“repriced”), or otherwise has materially modified such awards, the incremental fair value, computed as of the repricing or modification date in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718; and the aggregate number of stock awards and the aggregate number of option awards outstanding at fiscal year end. However, the disclosure required by this Instruction does not apply to any repricing that occurs through a pre-existing formula or mechanism in the plan or award that results in the periodic adjustment of the option or SAR exercise or base price, an antidilution provision in a plan or award, or a recapitalization or similar transaction equally affecting all holders of the class of securities underlying the options or SARs.
(v) The dollar value of all earnings for services performed during the fiscal year pursuant to non-equity incentive plans as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this Item, and all earnings on any outstanding awards (column (e));
(vi) The sum of the amounts specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(vi)(A) and (B) of this Item (column (f)) as follows:
(A) The aggregate change in the actuarial present value of the director's accumulated benefit under all defined benefit and actuarial pension plans (including supplemental plans) from the pension plan measurement date used for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the registrant's audited financial statements for the prior completed fiscal year to the pension plan measurement date used for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the registrant's audited financial statements for the covered fiscal year; and
(B) Above-market or preferential earnings on compensation that is deferred on a basis that is not tax-qualified, including such earnings on nonqualified defined contribution plans;
(vii) All other compensation for the covered fiscal year that the registrant could not properly report in any other column of the Director Compensation Table (column (g)). Each compensation item that is not properly reportable in columns (b)-(f), regardless of the amount of the compensation item, must be included in column (g). Such compensation must include, but is not limited to:
(A) Perquisites and other personal benefits, or property, unless the aggregate amount of such compensation is less than $10,000;
(B) All “gross-ups” or other amounts reimbursed during the fiscal year for the payment of taxes;
(C) For any security of the registrant or its subsidiaries purchased from the registrant or its subsidiaries (through deferral of salary or bonus, or otherwise) at a discount from the market price of such security at the date of purchase, unless that discount is available generally, either to all security holders or to all salaried employees of the registrant, the compensation cost, if any, computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718;
(D) The amount paid or accrued to any director pursuant to a plan or arrangement in connection with:
(
1
) The resignation, retirement or any other termination of such director; or
(
2
) A change in control of the registrant;
(E) Registrant contributions or other allocations to vested and unvested defined contribution plans;
(F) Consulting fees earned from, or paid or payable by the registrant and/or its subsidiaries (including joint ventures);
(G) The annual costs of payments and promises of payments pursuant to director legacy programs and similar charitable award programs;
(H) The dollar value of any insurance premiums paid by, or on behalf of, the registrant during the covered fiscal year with respect to life insurance for the benefit of a director; and
(I) The dollar value of any dividends or other earnings paid on stock or option awards, when those amounts were not factored into the grant date fair value required to be reported for the stock or option award in column (c) or (d); and
Instructions to Item 402(k)(2)(vii).
1. Programs in which registrants agree to make donations to one or more charitable institutions in a director's name, payable by the registrant currently or upon a designated event, such as the retirement or death of the director, are charitable awards programs or director legacy programs for purposes of the disclosure required by paragraph (k)(2)(vii)(G) of this Item. Provide footnote disclosure of the total dollar amount payable under the program and other material terms of each such program for which tabular disclosure is provided.
2. Any item reported for a director pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(vii) of this Item that is not a perquisite or personal benefit and whose value exceeds $10,000 must be identified and quantified in a footnote to column (g). All items of compensation are required to be included in the Director Compensation Table without regard to whether such items are required to be identified other than as specifically noted in this Item.
3. Perquisites and personal benefits may be excluded as long as the total value of all perquisites and personal benefits for a director is less than $10,000. If the total value of all perquisites and personal benefits is $10,000 or more for any director, then each perquisite or personal benefit, regardless of its amount, must be identified by type. If perquisites and personal benefits are required to be reported for a director pursuant to this rule, then each perquisite or personal benefit that exceeds the greater of $25,000 or 10% of the total amount of perquisites and personal benefits for that director must be quantified and disclosed in a footnote. Perquisites and other personal benefits shall be valued on the basis of the aggregate incremental cost to the registrant. With respect to the perquisite or other personal benefit for which footnote quantification is required, the registrant shall describe in the footnote its methodology for computing the aggregate incremental cost. Reimbursements of taxes owed with respect to perquisites or other personal benefits must be included in column (g) and are subject to separate quantification and identification as tax reimbursements (paragraph (k)(2)(vii)(B) of this Item) even if the associated perquisites or other personal benefits are not required to be included because the total amount of all perquisites or personal benefits for an individual director is less than $10,000 or are required to be identified but are not required to be separately quantified.
(viii) The dollar value of total compensation for the covered fiscal year (column (h)). With respect to each director, disclose the sum of all amounts reported in columns (b) through (g).
Instruction to Item 402(k)(2).
Two or more directors may be grouped in a single row in the Table if all elements of their compensation are identical. The names of the directors for whom disclosure is presented on a group basis should be clear from the Table.
(3)
Narrative to director compensation table.
Provide a narrative description of any material factors necessary to an understanding of the director compensation disclosed in this Table. While material factors will vary depending upon the facts, examples of such factors may include, in given cases, among other things:
(i) A description of standard compensation arrangements (such as fees for retainer, committee service, service as chairman of the board or a committee, and meeting attendance); and
(ii) Whether any director has a different compensation arrangement, identifying that director and describing the terms of that arrangement.
Instruction to Item 402(k).
In addition to the Instruction to paragraphs (k)(2)(iii) and (iv) and the Instructions to paragraph (k)(2)(vii) of this Item, the following apply equally to paragraph (k) of this Item: Instructions 2 and 4 to paragraph (c) of this Item; Instructions to paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this Item; Instructions to paragraphs (c)(2)(v) and (vi) of this Item; Instructions to paragraph (c)(2)(vii) of this Item; Instructions to paragraph (c)(2)(viii) of this Item; and Instructions 1 and 5 to paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this
Item. These Instructions apply to the columns in the Director Compensation Table that are analogous to the columns in the Summary Compensation Table to which they refer and to disclosures under paragraph (k) of this Item that correspond to analogous disclosures provided for in paragraph (c) of this Item to which they refer.
(l)
Smaller reporting companies and emerging growth companies.
A registrant that qualifies as a “smaller reporting company,” as defined by Item 10(f) (§ 229.10(f)(1)), or is an “emerging growth company,” as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter), may provide the scaled disclosure in paragraphs (m) through (r) instead of paragraphs (a) through (k), (s), and (u) of this Item.
(m)
Smaller reporting companies
—
General
—(1)
All compensation covered.
This Item requires clear, concise and understandable disclosure of all plan and non-plan compensation awarded to, earned by, or paid to the named executive officers designated under paragraph (m)(2) of this Item, and directors covered by paragraph (r) of this Item, by any person for all services rendered in all capacities to the smaller reporting company and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise specifically excluded from disclosure in this Item. All such compensation shall be reported pursuant to this Item, even if also called for by another requirement, including transactions between the smaller reporting company and a third party where a purpose of the transaction is to furnish compensation to any such named executive officer or director. No amount reported as compensation for one fiscal year need be reported in the same manner as compensation for a subsequent fiscal year; amounts reported as compensation for one fiscal year may be required to be reported in a different manner pursuant to this Item.
(2)
Persons covered.
Disclosure shall be provided pursuant to this Item for each of the following (the “named executive officers”):
(i) All individuals serving as the smaller reporting company's principal executive officer or acting in a similar capacity during the last completed fiscal year (“PEO”), regardless of compensation level;
(ii) The smaller reporting company's two most highly compensated executive officers other than the PEO who were serving as executive officers at the end of the last completed fiscal year; and
(iii) Up to two additional individuals for whom disclosure would have been provided pursuant to paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this Item but for the fact that the individual was not serving as an executive officer of the smaller reporting company at the end of the last completed fiscal year.
Instructions to Item 402(m)(2).
1.
Determination of most highly compensated executive officers.
The determination as to which executive officers are most highly compensated shall be made by reference to total compensation for the last completed fiscal year (as required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (n)(2)(x) of this Item) reduced by the amount required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (n)(2)(viii) of this Item,
provided, however
, that no disclosure need be provided for any executive officer, other than the PEO, whose total compensation, as so reduced, does not exceed $100,000.
2.
Inclusion of executive officer of a subsidiary.
It may be appropriate for a smaller reporting company to include as named executive officers one or more executive officers or other employees of subsidiaries in the disclosure required by this Item. See Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.3b-7).
3.
Exclusion of executive officer due to overseas compensation.
It may be appropriate in limited circumstances for a smaller reporting company not to include in the disclosure required by this Item an individual, other than its PEO, who is one of the smaller reporting company's most highly compensated executive officers due to the payment of amounts of cash compensation relating to overseas assignments attributed predominantly to such assignments.
(3)
Information for full fiscal year.
If the PEO served in that capacity during any part of a fiscal year with respect to which information is required, information should be provided as to all of his or her compensation for the full fiscal year. If a named executive officer (other than the PEO) served as an executive officer of the smaller reporting company (whether or not in the same position) during any part of the fiscal year with respect to which information
is required, information shall be provided as to all compensation of that individual for the full fiscal year.
(4)
Omission of table or column.
A table or column may be omitted if there has been no compensation awarded to, earned by, or paid to any of the named executive officers or directors required to be reported in that table or column in any fiscal year covered by that table.
(5)
Definitions.
For purposes of this Item:
(i) The term
stock
means instruments such as common stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units, phantom stock, phantom stock units, common stock equivalent units or any similar instruments that do not have option-like features, and the term
option
means instruments such as stock options, stock appreciation rights and similar instruments with option-like features. The term
stock appreciation rights
(“
SARs
”) refers to SARs payable in cash or stock, including SARs payable in cash or stock at the election of the smaller reporting company or a named executive officer. The term
equity
is used to refer generally to stock and/or options.
(ii) The term
plan
includes, but is not limited to, the following: Any plan, contract, authorization or arrangement, whether or not set forth in any formal document, pursuant to which cash, securities, similar instruments, or any other property may be received. A plan may be applicable to one person. Except with respect to disclosure required by paragraph (t) of this Item, smaller reporting companies may omit information regarding group life, health, hospitalization, or medical reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in scope, terms or operation, in favor of executive officers or directors of the smaller reporting company and that are available generally to all salaried employees.
(iii) The term
incentive plan
means any plan providing compensation intended to serve as incentive for performance to occur over a specified period, whether such performance is measured by reference to financial performance of the smaller reporting company or an affiliate, the smaller reporting company's stock price, or any other performance measure. An equity incentive plan is an incentive plan or portion of an incentive plan under which awards are granted that fall within the scope of FASB ASC Topic 718. A
non-equity incentive plan
is an incentive plan or portion of an incentive plan that is not an equity incentive plan. The term
incentive plan award
means an award provided under an incentive plan.
(iv) The terms
date of grant
or
grant date
refer to the grant date determined for financial statement reporting purposes pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 718.
(v)
Closing market price
is defined as the price at which the smaller reporting company's security was last sold in the principal United States market for such security as of the date for which the closing market price is determined.
(n)
Smaller reporting companies—Summary compensation table
—(1)
General.
Provide the information specified in paragraph (n)(2) of this Item, concerning the compensation of the named executive officers for each of the smaller reporting company's last two completed fiscal years, in a Summary Compensation Table in the tabular format specified below.
Summary Compensation Table
Name and principal position
Year
Salary
($)
Bonus
($)
Stock awards
($)
Option awards
($)
Nonequity incentive plan
compensation
($)
Nonqualified
deferred
compensation
earnings
($)
All other
compensation
($)
Total
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
PEO
A
B
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name and principal position of the named executive officer (column (a));
(ii) The fiscal year covered (column (b));
(iii) The dollar value of base salary (cash and non-cash) earned by the named executive officer during the fiscal year covered (column (c));
(iv) The dollar value of bonus (cash and non-cash) earned by the named executive officer during the fiscal year covered (column (d));
Instructions to Item 402(n)(2)(iii) and (iv).
1. If the amount of salary or bonus earned in a given fiscal year is not calculable through the latest practicable date, a footnote shall be included disclosing that the amount of salary or bonus is not calculable through the latest practicable date and providing the date that the amount of salary or bonus is expected to be determined, and such amount must then be disclosed in a filing under Item 5.02(f) of Form 8-K (17 CFR 249.308).
2. Smaller reporting companies shall include in the salary column (column (c)) or bonus column (column (d)) any amount of salary or bonus forgone at the election of a named executive officer under which stock, equity-based or other forms of non-cash compensation instead have been received by the named executive officer. However, the receipt of any such form of non-cash compensation instead of salary or bonus must be disclosed in a footnote added to the salary or bonus column and, where applicable, referring to the narrative disclosure to the Summary Compensation Table (required by paragraph (o) of this Item) where the material terms of the stock, option or non-equity incentive plan award elected by the named executive officer are reported.
(v) For awards of stock, the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (e));
(vi) For awards of options, with or without tandem SARs (including awards that subsequently have been transferred), the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (f));
Instruction 1 to Item 402(n)(2)(v) and (n)(2)(vi).
For awards reported in columns (e) and (f), include a footnote disclosing all assumptions made in the valuation by reference to a discussion of those assumptions in the smaller reporting company's financial statements, footnotes to the financial statements, or discussion in the Management's Discussion and Analysis. The sections so referenced are deemed part of the disclosure provided pursuant to this Item.
Instruction 2 to Item 402(n)(2)(v) and (n)(2)(vi).
If at any time during the last completed fiscal year, the smaller reporting company has adjusted or amended the exercise price of options or SARs previously awarded to a named executive officer, whether through amendment, cancellation or replacement grants, or any other means (“repriced”), or otherwise has materially modified such awards, the smaller reporting company shall include, as awards required to be reported in column (f), the incremental fair value, computed as of the repricing or modification date in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718, with respect to that repriced or modified award.
Instruction 3 to Item 402(n)(2)(v) and (vi).
For any awards that are subject to performance conditions, report the value at the grant date based upon the probable outcome of such conditions. This amount should be consistent with the estimate of aggregate compensation cost to be recognized over the service period determined as of the grant date under FASB ASC Topic 718, excluding the effect of estimated forfeitures. In a footnote to the table, disclose the value of the award at the grant date assuming that the highest level of performance conditions will be achieved if an amount less than the maximum was included in the table.
(vii) The dollar value of all earnings for services performed during the fiscal year pursuant to awards under non-equity incentive plans as defined in paragraph (m)(5)(iii) of this Item, and all earnings on any outstanding awards (column (g));
Instructions to Item 402(n)(2)(vii).
1. If the relevant performance measure is satisfied during the fiscal year (including for a single year in a plan with a multi-year performance measure), the earnings are reportable for that fiscal year, even if not payable until a later date, and are not reportable again in the fiscal year when amounts are paid to the named executive officer.
2. All earnings on non-equity incentive plan compensation must be identified and quantified in a footnote to column (g), whether the earnings were paid during the fiscal year, payable during the period but deferred at the election of the named executive officer, or payable by their terms at a later date.
(viii) Above-market or preferential earnings on compensation that is deferred on a basis that is not tax-qualified, including such earnings on nonqualified defined contribution plans (column (h));
Instruction to Item 402(n)(2)(viii).
Interest on deferred compensation is above-market only if the rate of interest exceeds 120% of the applicable federal long-term rate, with compounding (as prescribed under section 1274(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, (26 U.S.C. 1274(d))) at the rate that corresponds most closely to the rate under the smaller reporting company's plan at the time the interest rate or formula is set. In the event of a discretionary reset of the interest rate, the requisite calculation must be made on the basis of the interest rate at the time of such reset, rather than when originally established. Only the above-market portion of the interest must be included. If the applicable interest rates vary depending upon conditions such as a minimum period of continued service, the reported amount should be calculated assuming satisfaction of all conditions to receiving interest at the highest rate. Dividends (and dividend equivalents) on deferred compensation denominated in the smaller reporting company's stock (“deferred stock”) are preferential only if earned at a rate higher than dividends on the smaller reporting company's common stock. Only the preferential portion of the dividends or equivalents must be included. Footnote or narrative disclosure may be provided explaining the smaller reporting company's criteria for determining any portion considered to be above-market.
(ix) All other compensation for the covered fiscal year that the smaller reporting company could not properly report in any other column of the Summary Compensation Table (column (i)). Each compensation item that is not properly reportable in columns (c) through (h), regardless of the amount of the compensation item, must be included in column (i). Such compensation must include, but is not limited to:
(A) Perquisites and other personal benefits, or property, unless the aggregate amount of such compensation is less than $10,000;
(B) All “gross-ups” or other amounts reimbursed during the fiscal year for the payment of taxes;
(C) For any security of the smaller reporting company or its subsidiaries purchased from the smaller reporting company or its subsidiaries (through deferral of salary or bonus, or otherwise) at a discount from the market price of such security at the date of purchase, unless that discount is available generally, either to all security holders or to all salaried employees of the smaller reporting company, the compensation cost, if any, computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718;
(D) The amount paid or accrued to any named executive officer pursuant to a plan or arrangement in connection with:
(
1
) Any termination, including without limitation through retirement, resignation, severance or constructive termination (including a change in responsibilities) of such executive officer's employment with the smaller reporting company and its subsidiaries; or
(
2
) A change in control of the smaller reporting company;
(E) Smaller reporting company contributions or other allocations to vested and unvested defined contribution plans;
(F) The dollar value of any insurance premiums paid by, or on behalf of, the smaller reporting company during the covered fiscal year with respect to life insurance for the benefit of a named executive officer; and
(G) The dollar value of any dividends or other earnings paid on stock or option awards, when those amounts were not factored into the grant date fair value required to be reported for the stock or option award in column (e) or (f); and
Instructions to Item 402(n)(2)(ix).
1. Non-equity incentive plan awards and earnings and earnings on stock or options, except as specified in paragraph (n)(2)(ix)(G) of this Item, are required to be reported elsewhere as provided in this Item and are not reportable as All Other Compensation in column (i).
2. Benefits paid pursuant to defined benefit and actuarial plans are not reportable as All Other Compensation in column (i) unless accelerated pursuant to a change in control; information concerning these plans is reportable pursuant to paragraph (q)(1) of this Item.
3. Reimbursements of taxes owed with respect to perquisites or other personal benefits must be included in the columns as tax reimbursements (paragraph (n)(2)(ix)(B) of this Item) even if the associated perquisites or other personal benefits are not required to be included because the aggregate amount of such compensation is less than $10,000.
4. Perquisites and other personal benefits shall be valued on the basis of the aggregate incremental cost to the smaller reporting company.
5. For purposes of paragraph (n)(2)(ix)(D) of this Item, an accrued amount is an amount for which payment has become due.
(x) The dollar value of total compensation for the covered fiscal year (column (j)). With respect to each named executive officer, disclose the sum of all amounts reported in columns (c) through (i).
Instructions to Item 402(n).
1. Information with respect to the fiscal year prior to the last completed fiscal year will not be required if the smaller reporting company was not a reporting company pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) at any time during that year, except that the smaller reporting company will be required to provide information for any such year if that information previously was required to be provided in response to a Commission filing requirement.
2. All compensation values reported in the Summary Compensation Table must be reported in dollars and rounded to the nearest dollar. Reported compensation values must be reported numerically, providing a single numerical value for each grid in the table. Where compensation was paid to or received by a named executive officer in a different currency, a footnote must be provided to identify that currency and describe the rate and methodology used to convert the payment amounts to dollars.
3. If a named executive officer is also a director who receives compensation for his or her services as a director, reflect that compensation in the Summary Compensation Table and provide a footnote identifying and itemizing such compensation and amounts. Use the categories in the Director Compensation Table required pursuant to paragraph (r) of this Item.
4. Any amounts deferred, whether pursuant to a plan established under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401(k)), or otherwise, shall be included in the appropriate column for the fiscal year in which earned.
5. Reduce the amount reported in the applicable Summary Compensation Table column for the fiscal year in which the amount recovered initially was reported as compensation by any amounts recovered pursuant to the compensation recovery policy required by the listing standards adopted pursuant to 17 CFR 240.10D-1, and identify such amounts by footnote.
(o)
Smaller reporting companies—Narrative disclosure to summary compensation table.
Provide a narrative description of any material factors necessary to an understanding of the information disclosed in the Table required by paragraph (n) of this Item. Examples of such factors may include, in given cases, among other things:
(1) The material terms of each named executive officer's employment agreement or arrangement, whether written or unwritten;
(2) If at any time during the last fiscal year, any outstanding option or other equity-based award was repriced or otherwise materially modified (such as by extension of exercise periods, the change of vesting or forfeiture conditions, the change or elimination of applicable performance criteria, or the change of the bases upon which returns are determined), a description of each such repricing or other material modification;
(3) The waiver or modification of any specified performance tarfget, goal or condition to payout with respect to any amount included in non-stock incentive plan compensation or payouts reported in column (g) to the Summary Compensation Table required by paragraph (n) of this Item, stating whether the waiver or modification applied to one or more specified named executive officers or to all compensation subject to the target, goal or condition;
(4) The material terms of each grant, including but not limited to the date of exercisability, any conditions to exercisability, any tandem feature, any reload feature, any tax-reimbursement feature, and any provision that could cause the exercise price to be lowered;
(5) The material terms of any non-equity incentive plan award made to a named executive officer during the last completed fiscal year, including a general description of the formula or criteria to be applied in determining the amounts payable and vesting schedule;
(6) The method of calculating earnings on nonqualified deferred compensation plans including nonqualified defined contribution plans; and
(7) An identification to the extent material of any item included under All Other Compensation (column (i)) in the Summary Compensation Table. Identification of an item shall not be considered material if it does not exceed the greater of $25,000 or 10% of all items included in the specified category in question set forth in paragraph (n)(2)(ix) of this Item. All items
of compensation are required to be included in the Summary Compensation Table without regard to whether such items are required to be identified.
Instruction to Item 402(o).
The disclosure required by paragraph (o)(2) of this Item would not apply to any repricing that occurs through a pre-existing formula or mechanism in the plan or award that results in the periodic adjustment of the option or SAR exercise or base price, an antidilution provision in a plan or award, or a recapitalization or similar transaction equally affecting all holders of the class of securities underlying the options or SARs.
(p)
Smaller reporting companies—Outstanding equity awards at fiscal year-end table.
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (p)(2) of this Item, concerning unexercised options; stock that has not vested; and equity incentive plan awards for each named executive officer outstanding as of the end of the smaller reporting company's last completed fiscal year in the following tabular format:
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End
Name
Option awards
Number of securities underlying unexercised options
(#) exercisable
Number of securities
underlying
unexercised
options
(#) unexercisable
Equity
incentive
plan awards: Number of
securities
underlying
unexercised
unearned
options
(#)
Option
exercise price
($)
Option expiration date
Stock awards
Number of shares or units of stock that have not vested
(#)
Market value of shares of units of stock that have not vested
($)
Equity
incentive
plan awards: Number of
unearned
shares, units or other rights that have not vested
(#)
Equity
incentive
plan awards: Market or payout value of
unearned
shares, units or other rights that have not vested
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
PEO
A
B
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name of the named executive officer (column (a));
(ii) On an award-by-award basis, the number of securities underlying unexercised options, including awards that have been transferred other than for value, that are exercisable and that are not reported in column (d) (column (b));
(iii) On an award-by-award basis, the number of securities underlying unexercised options, including awards that have been transferred other than for value, that are unexercisable and that are not reported in column (d) (column (c));
(iv) On an award-by-award basis, the total number of shares underlying unexercised options awarded under any equity incentive plan that have not been earned (column (d));
(v) For each instrument reported in columns (b), (c) and (d), as applicable, the exercise or base price (column (e));
(vi) For each instrument reported in columns (b), (c) and (d), as applicable, the expiration date (column (f));
(vii) The total number of shares of stock that have not vested and that are not reported in column (i) (column (g));
(viii) The aggregate market value of shares of stock that have not vested and that are not reported in column (j) (column (h));
(ix) The total number of shares of stock, units or other rights awarded under any equity incentive plan that have not vested and that have not been earned, and, if applicable the number of shares underlying any such unit or right (column (i)); and
(x) The aggregate market or payout value of shares of stock, units or other rights awarded under any equity incentive plan that have not vested and that have not been earned (column (j)).
Instructions to Item 402(p)(2).
1. Identify by footnote any award that has been transferred other than for value, disclosing the nature of the transfer.
2. The vesting dates of options, shares of stock and equity incentive plan awards held at fiscal-year end must be disclosed by footnote to the applicable column where the outstanding award is reported.
3. Compute the market value of stock reported in column (h) and equity incentive plan awards of stock reported in column (j) by multiplying the closing market price of the smaller reporting company's stock at the end of the last completed fiscal year by the number of shares or units of stock or the amount of equity incentive plan awards, respectively. The number of shares or units reported in column (d) or (i), and the payout value reported in column (j), shall be based on achieving threshold performance goals, except that if the previous fiscal year's performance has exceeded the threshold, the disclosure shall be based on the next higher performance measure (target or maximum) that exceeds the previous fiscal year's performance. If the award provides only for a single estimated payout, that amount should be reported. If the target amount is not determinable, smaller reporting companies must provide a representative amount based on the previous fiscal year's performance.
4. Multiple awards may be aggregated where the expiration date and the exercise and/or base price of the instruments is identical. A single award consisting of a combination of options, SARs and/or similar option-like instruments shall be reported as separate awards with respect to each tranche with a different exercise and/or base price or expiration date.
5. Options or stock awarded under an equity incentive plan are reported in columns (d) or (i) and (j), respectively, until the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. Once the relevant performance condition has been satisfied, even if the option or stock award is subject to forfeiture conditions, options are reported in column (b) or (c), as appropriate, until they are exercised or expire, or stock is reported in columns (g) and (h) until it vests.
(q)
Smaller reporting companies—Additional narrative disclosure.
Provide a narrative description of the following to the extent material:
(1) The material terms of each plan that provides for the payment of retirement benefits, or benefits that will be paid primarily following retirement, including but not limited to tax-qualified defined benefit plans, supplemental executive retirement plans, tax-qualified defined contribution plans and nonqualified defined contribution plans.
(2) The material terms of each contract, agreement, plan or arrangement, whether written or unwritten, that provides for payment(s) to a named executive officer at, following, or in connection with the resignation, retirement or other termination of a named executive officer, or a change in control of the smaller reporting company or a change in the named executive officer's responsibilities following a change in control, with respect to each named executive officer.
(r)
Smaller reporting companies—Compensation of directors.
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (r)(2) of this Item, concerning the compensation of the directors for the smaller reporting company's last completed fiscal year, in the following tabular format:
Director Compensation
Name
Fees earned or paid in cash
($)
Stock awards
($)
Option awards
($)
Non-equity incentive plan
compensation
($)
Nonqualified deferred
compensation earnings
($)
All other compensation
($)
Total
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
A
B
C
D
E
(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The name of each director unless such director is also a named executive officer under paragraph (m) of this Item and his or her compensation for service as a director is fully reflected in the Summary Compensation Table pursuant to paragraph (n) of this Item and otherwise as required pursuant to paragraphs (o) through (q) of this Item (column (a));
(ii) The aggregate dollar amount of all fees earned or paid in cash for services as a director, including annual retainer fees, committee and/or chairmanship fees, and meeting fees (column (b));
(iii) For awards of stock, the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (c));
(iv) For awards of options, with or without tandem SARs (including awards that subsequently have been transferred), the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (column (d));
Instruction to Item 402(r)(2)(iii) and (iv).
For each director, disclose by footnote to the appropriate column, the aggregate number of stock awards and the aggregate number of option awards outstanding at fiscal year end.
(v) The dollar value of all earnings for services performed during the fiscal year pursuant to non-equity incentive plans as defined in paragraph (m)(5)(iii) of this Item, and all earnings on any outstanding awards (column (e));
(vi) Above-market or preferential earnings on compensation that is deferred on a basis that is not tax-qualified, including such earnings on nonqualified defined contribution plans (column (f));
(vii) All other compensation for the covered fiscal year that the smaller reporting company could not properly report in any other column of the Director Compensation Table (column (g)). Each compensation item that is not properly reportable in columns (b) through (f), regardless of the amount of the compensation item, must be included in column (g) and must be identified and quantified in a footnote if it is deemed material in accordance with paragraph (o)(7) of this Item. Such compensation must include, but is not limited to:
(A) Perquisites and other personal benefits, or property, unless the aggregate amount of such compensation is less than $10,000;
(B) All “gross-ups” or other amounts reimbursed during the fiscal year for the payment of taxes;
(C) For any security of the smaller reporting company or its subsidiaries purchased from the smaller reporting company or its subsidiaries (through deferral of salary or bonus, or otherwise) at a discount from the market price of such security at the date of purchase, unless that discount is available generally, either to all security holders or to all salaried employees of the smaller reporting company, the compensation cost, if any, computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718;
(D) The amount paid or accrued to any director pursuant to a plan or arrangement in connection with:
(
1
) The resignation, retirement or any other termination of such director; or
(
2
) A change in control of the smaller reporting company;
(E) Smaller reporting company contributions or other allocations to vested and unvested defined contribution plans;
(F) Consulting fees earned from, or paid or payable by the smaller reporting company and/or its subsidiaries (including joint ventures);
(G) The annual costs of payments and promises of payments pursuant to director legacy programs and similar charitable award programs;
(H) The dollar value of any insurance premiums paid by, or on behalf of, the smaller reporting company during the covered fiscal year with respect to life insurance for the benefit of a director; and
(I) The dollar value of any dividends or other earnings paid on stock or option awards, when those amounts were not factored into the grant date fair value required to be reported for the stock or option award in column (c) or (d); and
Instruction to Item 402(r)(2)(vii).
Programs in which smaller reporting companies agree to make donations to one or more charitable institutions in a director's name, payable by the smaller reporting company currently or upon a designated event, such as the retirement or death of the director, are charitable awards programs or director legacy programs for purposes of the disclosure required by paragraph (r)(2)(vii)(G) of this Item. Provide footnote disclosure of the total dollar amount payable under the program and other material terms of each such program for which tabular disclosure is provided.
(viii) The dollar value of total compensation for the covered fiscal year (column (h)). With respect to each director, disclose the sum of all amounts reported in columns (b) through (g).
Instruction to Item 402(r)(2).
Two or more directors may be grouped in a single row in the Table if all elements of their compensation are identical. The names of the directors for whom disclosure is presented on a group basis should be clear from the Table.
(3)
Narrative to director compensation table.
Provide a narrative description of any material factors necessary to an understanding of the director compensation disclosed in this Table. While material factors will vary depending upon the facts, examples of such factors may include, in given cases, among other things:
(i) A description of standard compensation arrangements (such as fees for retainer, committee service, service as chairman of the board or a committee, and meeting attendance); and
(ii) Whether any director has a different compensation arrangement, identifying that director and describing the terms of that arrangement.
Instruction to Item 402(r).
In addition to the Instruction to paragraph (r)(2)(vii) of this Item, the following apply equally to paragraph (r) of this Item: Instructions 2 and 4 to paragraph (n) of this Item; the Instructions to paragraphs (n)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this Item; the Instructions to paragraphs (n)(2)(v) and (vi) of this Item; the Instructions to paragraph (n)(2)(vii) of this Item; the Instruction to paragraph (n)(2)(viii) of this Item; the Instructions to paragraph (n)(2)(ix) of this Item; and paragraph (o)(7) of this Item. These Instructions apply to the columns in the Director Compensation Table that are analogous to the columns in the Summary Compensation Table to which they refer and to disclosures under paragraph (r) of this Item that correspond to analogous disclosures provided for in paragraph (n) of this Item to which they refer.
(s)
Narrative disclosure of the registrant's compensation policies and practices as they relate to the registrant's risk management.
To the extent that risks arising from the registrant's compensation policies and practices for its employees are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the registrant, discuss the registrant's policies and practices of compensating its employees, including non-executive officers, as they relate to risk management practices and risk-taking incentives. While the situations requiring disclosure will vary depending on the particular registrant and compensation policies and practices, situations that may trigger disclosure include, among others, compensation policies and practices: at a business unit of the company that carries a significant portion of the registrant's risk profile; at a business unit with compensation structured significantly differently than other units within the registrant; at a business unit that is significantly more profitable than others within the registrant; at a business unit where compensation expense is a significant percentage of the unit's revenues; and that vary significantly from the overall risk and reward structure of the registrant, such as when bonuses are awarded upon accomplishment of a task, while the income and risk to the registrant from the task extend over a significantly longer period of time. The
purpose of this paragraph(s) is to provide investors material information concerning how the registrant compensates and incentivizes its employees that may create risks that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the registrant. While the information to be disclosed pursuant to this paragraph(s) will vary depending upon the nature of the registrant's business and the compensation approach, the following are examples of the issues that the registrant may need to address for the business units or employees discussed:
(1) The general design philosophy of the registrant's compensation policies and practices for employees whose behavior would be most affected by the incentives established by the policies and practices, as such policies and practices relate to or affect risk taking by employees on behalf of the registrant, and the manner of their implementation;
(2) The registrant's risk assessment or incentive considerations, if any, in structuring its compensation policies and practices or in awarding and paying compensation;
(3) How the registrant's compensation policies and practices relate to the realization of risks resulting from the actions of employees in both the short term and the long term, such as through policies requiring claw backs or imposing holding periods;
(4) The registrant's policies regarding adjustments to its compensation policies and practices to address changes in its risk profile;
(5) Material adjustments the registrant has made to its compensation policies and practices as a result of changes in its risk profile; and
(6) The extent to which the registrant monitors its compensation policies and practices to determine whether its risk management objectives are being met with respect to incentivizing its employees.
(t)
Golden parachute compensation.
(1) In connection with any proxy or consent solicitation material providing the disclosure required by section 14A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(b)(1)) or any proxy or consent solicitation that includes disclosure under Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) pursuant to Note A of Schedule 14A (excluding any proxy or consent solicitation of an “emerging growth company,” as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter)), with respect to each named executive officer of the acquiring company and the target company, provide the information specified in paragraphs (t)(2) and (3) of this section regarding any agreement or understanding, whether written or unwritten, between such named executive officer and the acquiring company or target company, concerning any type of compensation, whether present, deferred or contingent, that is based on or otherwise relates to an acquisition, merger, consolidation, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all assets of the issuer, as follows:
Golden Parachute Compensation
Name
Cash
($)
Equity
($)
Pension/
NQDC
($)
Perquisites/
benefits
($)
Tax
reimbursement
($)
Other
($)
Total
($)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
PEO
PFO
A
B
C
(2) The table shall include, for each named executive officer:
(i) The name of the named executive officer (column (a));
(ii) The aggregate dollar value of any cash severance payments, including but not limited to payments of base salary, bonus, and pro-rated non-equity
incentive compensation plan payments (column (b));
(iii) The aggregate dollar value of:
(A) Stock awards for which vesting would be accelerated;
(B) In-the-money option awards for which vesting would be accelerated; and
(C) Payments in cancellation of stock and option awards (column (c));
(iv) The aggregate dollar value of pension and nonqualified deferred compensation benefit enhancements (column (d));
(v) The aggregate dollar value of perquisites and other personal benefits or property, and health care and welfare benefits (column (e));
(vi) The aggregate dollar value of any tax reimbursements (column (f));
(vii) The aggregate dollar value of any other compensation that is based on or otherwise relates to the transaction not properly reported in columns (b) through (f) (column (g)); and
(viii) The aggregate dollar value of the sum of all amounts reported in columns (b) through (g) (column (h)).

# Instructions to item 402(
t

# )(2).
1. If this disclosure is included in a proxy or consent solicitation seeking approval of an acquisition, merger, consolidation, or proposed sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the registrant, or in a proxy or consent solicitation that includes disclosure under Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101) pursuant to Note A of Schedule 14A, the disclosure provided by this table shall be quantified assuming that the triggering event took place on the latest practicable date, and that the price per share of the registrant's securities shall be determined as follows: If the shareholders are to receive a fixed dollar amount, the price per share shall be that fixed dollar amount, and if such value is not a fixed dollar amount, the price per share shall be the average closing market price of the registrant's securities over the first five business days following the first public announcement of the transaction. Compute the dollar value of in-the-money option awards for which vesting would be accelerated by determining the difference between this price and the exercise or base price of the options. Include only compensation that is based on or otherwise relates to the subject transaction. Apply Instruction 1 to Item 402(t) with respect to those executive officers for whom disclosure was required in the issuer's most recent filing with the Commission under the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) or Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
) that required disclosure pursuant to Item 402(c).
2. If this disclosure is included in a proxy solicitation for the annual meeting at which directors are elected for purposes of subjecting the disclosed agreements or understandings to a shareholder vote under section 14A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(a)(1)), the disclosure provided by this table shall be quantified assuming that the triggering event took place on the last business day of the registrant's last completed fiscal year, and the price per share of the registrant's securities is the closing market price as of that date. Compute the dollar value of in-the-money option awards for which vesting would be accelerated by determining the difference between this price and the exercise or base price of the options.
3. In the event that uncertainties exist as to the provision of payments and benefits or the amounts involved, the registrant is required to make a reasonable estimate applicable to the payment or benefit and disclose material assumptions underlying such estimates in its disclosure. In such event, the disclosure would require forward-looking information as appropriate.
4. For each of columns (b) through (g), include a footnote quantifying each separate form of compensation included in the aggregate total reported. Include the value of all perquisites and other personal benefits or property. Individual perquisites and personal benefits shall be identified and quantified as required by Instruction 4 to Item 402(c)(2)(ix) of this section. For purposes of quantifying health care benefits, the registrant must use the assumptions used for financial reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles.
5. For each of columns (b) through (h), include a footnote quantifying the amount payable attributable to a double-trigger arrangement (
i.e.,
amounts triggered by a change-in-control for which payment is conditioned upon the executive officer's termination without cause or resignation for good reason within a limited time period following the change-in-control), specifying the time-frame in which such termination or resignation must occur in order for the amount to become payable, and the amount payable attributable to a single-trigger arrangement (
i.e.,
amounts triggered by a change-in-control for which payment is not conditioned upon such a termination or resignation of the executive officer).
6. A registrant conducting a shareholder advisory vote pursuant to § 240.14a-21(c) of this chapter to cover new arrangements and understandings, and/or revised terms of agreements and understandings that were previously subject to a shareholder advisory vote pursuant to § 240.14a-21(a) of this chapter, shall provide two separate tables. One table shall disclose all golden parachute
compensation, including both the arrangements and amounts previously disclosed and subject to a shareholder advisory vote under section 14A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(a)(1)) and § 240.14a-21(a) of this chapter and the new arrangements and understandings and/or revised terms of agreements and understandings that were previously subject to a shareholder advisory vote. The second table shall disclose only the new arrangements and/or revised terms subject to the separate shareholder vote under section 14A(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and § 240.14a-21(c) of this chapter.
7. In cases where this Item 402(t)(2) requires disclosure of arrangements between an acquiring company and the named executive officers of the soliciting target company, the registrant shall clarify whether these agreements are included in the separate shareholder advisory vote pursuant to § 240.14a-21(c) of this chapter by providing a separate table of all agreements and understandings subject to the shareholder advisory vote required by section 14A(b)(2) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78n-1(b)(2)) and § 240.14a-21(c) of this chapter, if different from the full scope of golden parachute compensation subject to Item 402(t) disclosure.
(3) Provide a succinct narrative description of any material factors necessary to an understanding of each such contract, agreement, plan or arrangement and the payments quantified in the tabular disclosure required by this paragraph. Such factors shall include, but not be limited to a description of:
(i) The specific circumstances that would trigger payment(s);
(ii) Whether the payments would or could be lump sum, or annual, disclosing the duration, and by whom they would be provided; and
(iii) Any material conditions or obligations applicable to the receipt of payment or benefits, including but not limited to non-compete, non-solicitation, non-disparagement or confidentiality agreements, including the duration of such agreements and provisions regarding waiver or breach of such agreements.

# Instructions to Item 402(
t

# ).
1. A registrant that does not qualify as a “smaller reporting company,” as defined by § 229.10(f)(1) of this chapter, must provide the information required by this Item 402(t) with respect to the individuals covered by Items 402(a)(3)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this section. A registrant that qualifies as a “smaller reporting company,” as defined by § 229.10(f)(1) of this chapter, must provide the information required by this Item 402(t) with respect to the individuals covered by Items 402(m)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
2. The obligation to provide the information in this Item 402(t) shall not apply to agreements and understandings described in paragraph (t)(1) of this section with senior management of foreign private issuers, as defined in § 240.3b-4 of this chapter.
(u)
Pay ratio disclosure
—(1)
Disclose.
(i) The median of the annual total compensation of all employees of the registrant, except the PEO of the registrant;
(ii) The annual total compensation of the PEO of the registrant; and
(iii) The ratio of the amount in paragraph (u)(1)(i) of this Item to the amount in paragraph (u)(1)(ii) of this Item. For purposes of the ratio required by this paragraph (u)(1)(iii), the amount in paragraph (u)(1)(i) of this Item shall equal one, or, alternatively, the ratio may be expressed narratively as the multiple that the amount in paragraph (u)(1)(ii) of this Item bears to the amount in paragraph (u)(1)(i) of this Item.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (u):
(i)
Total compensation
for the median of annual total compensation of all employees of the registrant and the PEO of the registrant shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(x) of this Item. In determining the total compensation, all references to “named executive officer” in this Item and the instructions thereto may be deemed to refer instead, as applicable, to “employee” and, for non-salaried employees, references to “base salary” and “salary” in this Item and the instructions thereto may be deemed to refer instead, as applicable, to “wages plus overtime”;
(ii)
Annual total
compensation
means total compensation for the registrant's last completed fiscal year; and
(iii)
Registrant
means the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries.
(3) For purposes of this paragraph (u),
employee
or
employee of the registrant
means an individual employed by the registrant or any of its consolidated subsidiaries, whether as a full-time, part-time, seasonal, or temporary worker, as of a date chosen by the registrant within the last three months of the registrant's last completed fiscal
year. The definition of employee or employee of the registrant does not include those workers who are employed, and whose compensation is determined, by an unaffiliated third party but who provide services to the registrant or its consolidated subsidiaries as independent contractors or “leased” workers.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (u), an employee located in a jurisdiction outside the United States (a “non-U.S. employee”) may be exempt from the definition of employee or employee of the registrant under either of the following conditions:
(i) The employee is employed in a foreign jurisdiction in which the laws or regulations governing data privacy are such that, despite its reasonable efforts to obtain or process the information necessary for compliance with this paragraph (u), the registrant is unable to do so without violating such data privacy laws or regulations. The registrant's reasonable efforts shall include, at a minimum, using or seeking an exemption or other relief under any governing data privacy laws or regulations. If the registrant chooses to exclude any employees using this exemption, it shall list the excluded jurisdictions, identify the specific data privacy law or regulation, explain how complying with this paragraph (u) violates such data privacy law or regulation (including the efforts made by the registrant to use or seek an exemption or other relief under such law or regulation), and provide the approximate number of employees exempted from each jurisdiction based on this exemption. In addition, if a registrant excludes any non-U.S. employees in a particular jurisdiction under this exemption, it must exclude all non-U.S. employees in that jurisdiction. Further, the registrant shall obtain a legal opinion from counsel that opines on the inability of the registrant to obtain or process the information necessary for compliance with this paragraph (u) without violating the jurisdiction's laws or regulations governing data privacy, including the registrant's inability to obtain an exemption or other relief under any governing laws or regulations. The registrant shall file the legal opinion as an exhibit to the filing in which the pay ratio disclosure is included.
(ii) The registrant's non-U.S. employees account for 5% or less of the registrant's total employees. In that circumstance, if the registrant chooses to exclude any non-U.S. employees under this exemption, it must exclude all non-U.S. employees. Additionally, if a registrant's non-U.S. employees exceed 5% of the registrant's total U.S. and non-U.S. employees, it may exclude up to 5% of its total employees who are non-U.S. employees;
provided, however,
if a registrant excludes any non-U.S. employees in a particular jurisdiction, it must exclude all non-U.S. employees in that jurisdiction. If more than 5% of a registrant's employees are located in any one non-U.S. jurisdiction, the registrant may not exclude any employees in that jurisdiction under this exemption.
(A) In calculating the number of non-U.S. employees that may be excluded under this Item 402(u)(4)(ii) (“
de minimis”
exemption), a registrant shall count against the total any non-U.S. employee exempted under the data privacy law exemption under Item 402(u)(4)(i) (“data privacy” exemption). A registrant may exclude any non-U.S. employee from a jurisdiction that meets the data privacy exemption, even if the number of excluded employees exceeds 5% of the registrant's total employees. If, however, the number of employees excluded under the data privacy exemption equals or exceeds 5% of the registrant's total employees, the registrant may not use the
de minimis
exemption. Additionally, if the number of employees excluded under the data privacy exemption is less than 5% of the registrant's total employees, the registrant may use the
de minimis
exemption to exclude no more than the number of non-U.S. employees that, combined with the data privacy exemption, does not exceed 5% of the registrant's total employees.
(B) If a registrant excludes non-U.S. employees under the
de minimis
exemption, it must disclose the jurisdiction or jurisdictions from which those employees are being excluded, the approximate number of employees excluded from each jurisdiction under the
de minimis
exemption, the total number of
its U.S. and non-U.S. employees irrespective of any exemption (data privacy or
de minimis
), and the total number of its U.S. and non-U.S. employees used for its
de minimis
calculation.
Instruction 1 to Item 402(u)
—
Disclosing the date chosen for identifying the median employee.
A registrant shall disclose the date within the last three months of its last completed fiscal year that it selected pursuant to paragraph (u)(3) of this Item to identify its median employee. If the registrant changes the date it uses to identify the median employee from the prior year, the registrant shall disclose this change and provide a brief explanation about the reason or reasons for the change.
Instruction 2 to Item 402(u)
—
Identifying the median employee.
A registrant is required to identify its median employee only once every three years and calculate total compensation for that employee each year;
provided that,
during a registrant's last completed fiscal year there has been no change in its employee population or employee compensation arrangements that it reasonably believes would result in a significant change to its pay ratio disclosure. If there have been no changes that the registrant reasonably believes would significantly affect its pay ratio disclosure, the registrant shall disclose that it is using the same median employee in its pay ratio calculation and describe briefly the basis for its reasonable belief. For example, the registrant could disclose that there has been no change in its employee population or employee compensation arrangements that it believes would significantly impact the pay ratio disclosure. If there has been a change in the registrant's employee population or employee compensation arrangements that the registrant reasonably believes would result in a significant change in its pay ratio disclosure, the registrant shall re-identify the median employee for that fiscal year. If it is no longer appropriate for the registrant to use the median employee identified in year one as the median employee in years two or three because of a change in the original median employee's circumstances that the registrant reasonably believes would result in a significant change in its pay ratio disclosure, the registrant may use another employee whose compensation is substantially similar to the original median employee based on the compensation measure used to select the original median employee.
Instruction 3 to Item 402(u)
—
Updating for the last completed fiscal year.
Pay ratio information (
i.e.,
the disclosure called for by paragraph (u)(1) of this Item) with respect to the registrant's last completed fiscal year is not required to be disclosed until the filing of its annual report on Form 10-K for that last completed fiscal year or, if later, the filing of a definitive proxy or information statement relating to its next annual meeting of shareholders (or written consents in lieu of such a meeting) following the end of such fiscal year;
provided that,
the required pay ratio information must, in any event, be filed as provided in General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K (17 CFR 249.310) not later than 120 days after the end of such fiscal year.
Instruction 4 to Item 402(u)
—
Methodology and use of estimates.
1. Registrants may use reasonable estimates both in the methodology used to identify the median employee and in calculating the annual total compensation or any elements of total compensation for employees other than the PEO.
2. In determining the employees from which the median employee is identified, a registrant may use its employee population or statistical sampling and/or other reasonable methods.
3. A registrant may identify the median employee using annual total compensation or any other compensation measure that is consistently applied to all employees included in the calculation, such as information derived from the registrant's tax and/or payroll records. In using a compensation measure other than annual total compensation to identify the median employee, if that measure is recorded on a basis other than the registrant's fiscal year (such as information derived from tax and/or payroll records), the registrant may use the same annual period that is used to derive those amounts. Where a compensation measure other than annual total compensation is used to identify the median employee, the registrant must disclose the compensation measure used.
4. In identifying the median employee, whether using annual total compensation or any other compensation measure that is consistently applied to all employees included in the calculation, the registrant may make cost-of-living adjustments to the compensation of employees in jurisdictions other than the jurisdiction in which the PEO resides so that the compensation is adjusted to the cost of living in the jurisdiction in which the PEO resides. If the registrant uses a cost-of-living adjustment to identify the median employee, and the median employee identified is an employee in a jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction in which the PEO resides, the registrant must use the same cost-of-living adjustment in calculating the median employee's annual total compensation and disclose the median employee's jurisdiction. The registrant also shall briefly describe the cost-of-living adjustments it used to identify the median employee and briefly describe the cost-of-living adjustments it used to calculate the median employee's annual total compensation, including the measure used as the basis for the cost-of-living adjustment. A registrant electing to present the pay ratio in this manner also shall disclose the median employee's annual total compensation and pay ratio without the cost-of-living adjustment. To calculate this pay ratio, the registrant will need to identify the median employee without using any cost-of-living adjustments.
5. The registrant shall briefly describe the methodology it used to identify the median employee. It shall also briefly describe any material assumptions, adjustments (including any cost-of-living adjustments), or estimates it used to identify the median employee or to determine total compensation or any elements of total compensation, which shall be consistently applied. The registrant shall clearly identify any estimates used. The required descriptions should be a brief overview; it is not necessary for the registrant to provide technical analyses or formulas. If a registrant changes its methodology or its material assumptions, adjustments, or estimates from those used in its pay ratio disclosure for the prior fiscal year, and if the effects of any such change are significant, the registrant shall briefly describe the change and the reasons for the change. Registrants must also disclose if they changed from using the cost-of-living adjustment to not using that adjustment and if they changed from not using the cost-of-living adjustment to using it.
6. Registrants may, at their discretion, include personal benefits that aggregate less than $10,000 and compensation under non-discriminatory benefit plans in calculating the annual total compensation of the median employee as long as these items are also included in calculating the PEO's annual total compensation. The registrant shall also explain any difference between the PEO's annual total compensation used in the pay ratio disclosure and the total compensation amounts reflected in the Summary Compensation Table, if material.
Instruction 5 to Item 402(u)
—
Permitted annualizing adjustments.
A registrant may annualize the total compensation for all permanent employees (full-time or part-time) that were employed by the registrant for less than the full fiscal year (such as newly hired employees or permanent employees on an unpaid leave of absence during the period). A registrant may not annualize the total compensation for employees in temporary or seasonal positions. A registrant may not make a full-time equivalent adjustment for any employee.
Instruction 6 to Item 402(u)
—
PEO compensation not available.
A registrant that is relying on Instruction 1 to Item 402(c)(2)(iii) and (iv) in connection with the salary or bonus of the PEO for the last completed fiscal year, shall disclose that the pay ratio required by paragraph (u) of this Item is not calculable until the PEO salary or bonus, as applicable, is determined and shall disclose the date that the PEO's actual total compensation is expected to be determined. The disclosure required by paragraph (u) of this Item shall then be disclosed in the filing under Item 5.02(f) of Form 8-K (17 CFR 249.308) that discloses the PEO's salary or bonus in accordance with Instruction 1 to Item 402(c)(2)(iii) and (iv).
Instruction 7 to Item 402(u)
—
Transition periods for registrants.
1. Upon becoming subject to the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)), a registrant shall comply with paragraph (u) of this Item with respect to compensation for the first fiscal year following the year in which it became subject to such requirements, but not for any fiscal year commencing before January 1, 2017. The registrant may omit the disclosure required by paragraph (u) of this Item from any filing until the filing of its annual report on Form 10-K (17 CFR 249.310) for such fiscal year or, if later, the filing of a proxy or information statement relating to its next annual meeting of shareholders (or written consents in lieu of such a meeting) following the end of such year;
provided that,
such disclosure shall, in any event, be filed as provided in General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K not later than 120 days after the end of such fiscal year.
2. A registrant may omit any employees that became its employees as the result of the business combination or acquisition of a business for the fiscal year in which the transaction becomes effective, but the registrant must disclose the approximate number of employees it is omitting. Those employees shall be included in the total employee count for the triennial calculations of the median employee in the year following the transaction for purposes of evaluating whether a significant change had occurred. The registrant shall identify the acquired business excluded for the fiscal year in which the business combination or acquisition becomes effective.
3. A registrant shall comply with paragraph (u) of this Item with respect to compensation for the first fiscal year commencing on or after the date the registrant ceases to be a smaller reporting company, but not for any fiscal year commencing before January 1, 2017.
Instruction 8 to Item 402(u)
—
Emerging growth companies.
A registrant is not required to comply with paragraph (u) of this Item if it is an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77(b)(a)(19)) or Section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)). A registrant shall comply with paragraph (u) of this Item with respect to compensation for the first fiscal year commencing on or after the date the registrant ceases to be an emerging growth company, but not for any fiscal year commencing before January 1, 2017.
Instruction 9 to Item 402(u)
—
Additional information.
Registrants may present additional information, including additional ratios, to supplement the required ratio, but are not required to do so. Any additional information shall be clearly identified, not misleading, and not presented with greater prominence than the required ratio.
Instruction 10 to Item 402(u)
—
Multiple PEOs during the year.
A registrant with more than one non-concurrent PEO serving during its fiscal year may calculate the annual total compensation for its PEO in either of the following manners:
1. The registrant may calculate the compensation provided to each person who served as PEO during the year for the time he or she served as PEO and combine those figures; or
2. The registrant may look to the PEO serving in that position on the date it selects to identify the median employee and annualize that PEO's compensation.
Regardless of the alternative selected, the registrant shall disclose which option it chose and how it calculated its PEO's annual total compensation.
Instruction 11 to Item 402(u)
—
Employees' personally identifiable information.
Registrants are not required to, and should not, disclose any personally identifiable information about that employee other than his or her compensation. Registrants may choose to generally identify an employee's position to put the employee's compensation in context, but registrants are not required to provide this information and should not do so if providing the information could identify any specific individual.

# Instruction to Item 402.
Specify the applicable fiscal year in the title to each table required under this Item which calls for disclosure as of or for a completed fiscal year.
(v)
Pay versus performance.
In connection with any proxy or information statement for which the rules of the Commission require executive compensation disclosure pursuant to this section (excluding any proxy or information statement of an “emerging growth company,” as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter or § 240.12b-2 of this chapter):
(1) Provide the information specified in paragraph (v)(2) of this section for each of the registrant's last five completed fiscal years in the following tabular format:
Pay Versus Performance
Year
Summary
compensation
table total for PEO
Compensation
actually paid
to PEO
Average
summary
compensation
table total for
non-PEO named
executive
officers
Average
compensation
actually paid
to non-PEO named
executive
officers
Value of initial fixed $100 investment based on:
Total
shareholder
return
Peer group
total
shareholder return
Net income
[Company-
selected measure]
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(2) The table required by paragraph (v)(1) of this section must include:
(i) The fiscal year covered (column (a)).
(ii) The PEO's (as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section) total compensation for the covered fiscal year as reported in the Summary Compensation Table pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(x) of this section, or paragraph (n)(2)(x) of this section for smaller reporting companies (column (b)), and the average total compensation reported for the remaining named executive officers collectively reported pursuant to such applicable paragraph (column (d)). If more than one person served as the registrant's PEO during the covered fiscal year, provide the total compensation, as reported in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence, for each person who served as the PEO during that period separately in an additional column (b) for each such person.
(iii) The executive compensation actually paid to the PEO (column (c)) and the average executive compensation actually paid to the remaining named executive officers collectively (column (e)). If more than one person served as the registrant's PEO during the covered fiscal year, provide the compensation actually paid to each person who served as PEO during that period separately in an additional column (c) for each such person. For purposes of columns (c) and (e) of the table required by paragraph (v)(1) of this section, executive compensation actually paid must be the total compensation for the covered fiscal year for each named executive officer as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(x) of this section, or paragraph (n)(2)(x) of this section for smaller reporting companies, adjusted to:
(A) Deduct the aggregate change in the actuarial present value of the named executive officer's accumulated benefit under all defined benefit and actuarial pension plans reported in the Summary Compensation Table in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(A) of this section;
(B)(
1
) Add, for all defined benefit and actuarial pension plans reported in the Summary Compensation Table in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(A) of this section, the aggregate of:
(
i
) Service cost, calculated as the actuarial present value of each named executive officer's benefit under all such plans attributable to services rendered during the covered fiscal year; and
(
ii
) Prior service cost, calculated as the entire cost of benefits granted (or credit for benefits reduced) in a plan amendment (or initiation) during the covered fiscal year that are attributed by the benefit formula to services rendered in periods prior to the amendment.
(
2
) “Service cost” and “prior service cost” must be calculated using the same methodology as used for the registrant's financial statements under generally accepted accounting principles.
(C)(
1
) Deduct the amounts reported in the Summary Compensation Table pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2)(v) and (vi) of this section and then include an amount calculated as follows for all stock awards, and all option awards, with or without tandem SARs (as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section) (including awards that subsequently have been transferred):
(
i
) Add the fair value as of the end of the covered fiscal year of all awards granted during the covered fiscal year that are outstanding and unvested as of the end of the covered fiscal year;
(
ii
) Add the amount equal to the change as of the end of the covered fiscal year (from the end of the prior fiscal year) in fair value (whether positive or negative) of any awards granted in any prior fiscal year that are outstanding and unvested as of the end of the covered fiscal year;
(
iii
) Add, for awards that are granted and vest in the same year, the fair value as of the vesting date;
(
iv
) Add the amount equal to the change as of the vesting date (from the end of the prior fiscal year) in fair value (whether positive or negative) of any awards granted in any prior fiscal year for which all applicable vesting conditions were satisfied at the end of or during the covered fiscal year;
(
v
) Subtract, for any awards granted in any prior fiscal year that fail to meet the applicable vesting conditions during the covered fiscal year, the amount equal to the fair value at the end of the prior fiscal year; and
(
vi
) Add the dollar value of any dividends or other earnings paid on stock or option awards in the covered fiscal year prior to the vesting date that are not otherwise included in the total compensation for the covered fiscal year.
(
2
) If at any time during the last completed fiscal year, the registrant has adjusted or amended the exercise price of options or SARs held by a named executive officer, whether through amendment, cancellation or replacement grants, or any other means, or otherwise has materially modified such awards, the changes in fair value included pursuant to this paragraph (v)(2)(iii)(C) must take into account the excess fair value, if any, of any such modified award over the fair value of the original award as of the date of such modification.
(
3
) Fair value amounts must be computed in a manner consistent with the fair value methodology used to account for share-based payments in the registrant's financial statements under generally accepted accounting principles. For any awards that are subject to performance conditions, calculate the change in fair value as of the end of the covered fiscal year based upon the probable outcome of such conditions as of the last day of the fiscal year.
(iv) For purposes of columns (f) and (g) of the table required by paragraph (v)(1) of this section, for each fiscal year disclose the cumulative total shareholder return of the registrant (column (f)) and peer group cumulative total shareholder return (column (g)) calculated, except as set forth below, in the same manner as under § 229.201(e) of this chapter (Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K). For purposes of calculating the cumulative total shareholder return of the registrant and peer group cumulative total shareholder return, the term “measurement period” must be the period beginning at the “measurement point” established by the market close on the last trading day before the registrant's earliest fiscal year in the table, through and including the end of the fiscal year for which cumulative total shareholder return of the registrant or peer group cumulative total shareholder return is being calculated. The closing price at the measurement point must be converted into a fixed investment of one hundred dollars, stated in dollars, in the registrant's stock (or in the stocks represented by the peer group). For each fiscal year, the amount included in the table must be the value of such fixed investment based on the cumulative total shareholder return as of the end of that year. The same methodology must be used in calculating both the registrant's total shareholder return and that of the peer group. For purposes of determining the total shareholder return of the registrant's peer group, the registrant must use the same index or issuers used by it for purposes of § 229.201(e)(1)(ii) of this chapter or, if applicable, the companies it uses as a peer group for purposes of its disclosures under paragraph (b) of this section. If the peer group is not a published industry or line-of-business index, the identity of the issuers composing the group must be disclosed in a footnote. The returns of each component issuer of the group must be weighted according to the respective issuers' stock market capitalization at the beginning of each period for which a return is indicated. If the registrant selects or otherwise uses a different peer group from the peer group used by it for the immediately preceding fiscal year, explain, in a footnote, the reason(s) for this change and compare the registrant's cumulative total return with that of both the newly selected peer group and the peer group used in the immediately preceding fiscal year.
(v) The registrant's net income for each fiscal year (column (h)).
(vi) An amount for each fiscal year attributable to an additional financial performance measure included in the Tabular List provided pursuant to paragraph (v)(6) of this section, designated as the Company-Selected Measure, which in the registrant's assessment represents the most important financial performance measure (that is not otherwise required to be disclosed in the table) used by the registrant to link compensation actually paid to the registrant's named executive officers, for the most recently completed fiscal year, to company performance (column (i)). For purposes of
this paragraph (v) of this section, “financial performance measures” means measures that are determined and presented in accordance with the accounting principles used in preparing the issuer's financial statements, any measures that are derived wholly or in part from such measures, and stock price and total shareholder return. A financial performance measure need not be presented within the registrant's financial statements or otherwise included in a filing with the Commission to be a Company-Selected Measure. Disclosure of any Company-Selected Measure, or any additional measure that the registrant elects to provide, that is not a financial measure under generally accepted accounting principles will not be subject to §§ 244.100 through 102 of this chapter (Regulation G) and § 229.10(e) of this chapter (Item 10(e)); however, disclosure must be provided as to how the number is calculated from the registrant's audited financial statements.
(3) For each amount disclosed in columns (c) and (e) of the table required by paragraph (v)(1) of this section, disclose in footnotes to the table each of the amounts deducted and added pursuant to paragraph (v)(2)(iii) of this section, the name of each named executive officer included as a PEO or in the calculation of the average remaining named executive officer compensation, and the fiscal years in which such persons are included. For disclosure of the executive compensation actually paid to named executive officers other than the PEO, provide the amounts required under this paragraph as averages.
(4) For the value of equity awards added pursuant to paragraph (v)(2)(iii)(C) of this section, disclose in a footnote to the table required by paragraph (v)(1) of this section any assumption made in the valuation that differs materially from those disclosed as of the grant date of such equity awards.
(5) In proxy or information statements in which disclosure is required pursuant to this Item, use the information provided in the table required by paragraph (v)(1) of this section to provide a clear description (graphically, narratively, or a combination of the two) of the relationships:
(i) Between:
(A) The executive compensation actually paid by the registrant to the PEO (column (c)) and the average of the executive compensation actually paid to the named executive officers other than the PEO (column (e)) included in the Summary Compensation Table; and
(B) The cumulative total shareholder return of the registrant (column (f)), across the registrant's last five completed fiscal years;
(ii) Between:
(A) The executive compensation actually paid by the registrant to the PEO (column (c)) and the average of the executive compensation actually paid to the named executive officers other than the PEO (column (e)) included in the Summary Compensation Table; and
(B) Net income of the registrant (column (h)), across the registrant's last five completed fiscal years; and
(iii) Between:
(A) The executive compensation actually paid by the registrant to the PEO (column (c)) and the average of the executive compensation actually paid to the named executive officers other than the PEO (column (e)) included in the Summary Compensation Table; and
(B) The Company-Selected Measure (column (i)), across the registrant's last five completed fiscal years.
(iv) The description provided in response to paragraph (v)(5)(i) of this section must also include a comparison of the cumulative total shareholder return of the registrant (column (f)) and cumulative total shareholder return of the registrant's peer group (column (g)) over the same period. If a registrant elects to provide any additional measures in the table, each additional measure must be accompanied by a clear description of the relationship between:
(A) The executive compensation actually paid by the registrant to the PEO (column (c)) and the average of the executive compensation actually paid to the named executive officers other than the PEO (column (e)) included in the Summary Compensation Table; and
(B) That additional measure, across the registrant's last five completed fiscal years.
(6) Subject to paragraph (v)(6)(iii) of this section, provide a tabular list of at least three, and up to seven, financial performance measures, which in the registrant's assessment represent the most important financial performance measures used by the registrant to link compensation actually paid to the registrant's named executive officers, for the most recently completed fiscal year, to company performance (“Tabular List”).
(i) The registrant may provide the Tabular List disclosure either as one tabular list, as two separate tabular lists (one for the PEO, and one for all named executive officers other than the PEO), or as separate tabular lists for the PEO and each named executive officer other than the PEO. If the registrant elects to provide multiple tabular lists in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence, each tabular list must include at least three, and up to seven, financial performance measures, which in the registrant's assessment represent the most important financial performance measures used by the registrant to link compensation actually paid to that, or those, particular named executive officer, or officers, for the most recently completed fiscal year, to company performance.
(ii) If fewer than three financial performance measures were used by the registrant to link compensation actually paid to the registrant's named executive officers, for the most recently completed fiscal year, to company performance, the Tabular List must include all such measures that were used, if any.
(iii) A registrant may include non-financial performance measures (
i.e.,
performance measures other than those that fall within the definition of financial performance measures) used by the registrant to link compensation actually paid to the registrant's named executive officers, for the most recently completed fiscal year, to company performance in the Tabular List, if it determines that such measures are among its three to seven most important performance measures, and it has disclosed its most important three (or fewer, if the registrant only uses fewer) financial performance measures, in accordance with this paragraph (v)(6).
(iv) The Tabular List may include a maximum of seven performance measures, regardless of whether the registrant elects to include non-financial performance measures in the Tabular List.
(7) The disclosure provided pursuant to this paragraph (v), including, but not limited to, any disclosure provided pursuant to paragraphs (v)(3) and (6) of this section, must appear with, and in the same format as, the rest of the disclosure required to be provided pursuant to this section and, in addition, must be provided in an Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405 of this chapter and the EDGAR Filer Manual (referenced in § 232.301 of this chapter).
(8) A registrant that qualifies as a “smaller reporting company,” as defined by § 229.10(f)(1) of this chapter, may provide the information required by this paragraph (v) for three years, instead of five years. A smaller reporting company may provide the disclosure required by this paragraph (v) for only two fiscal years in the first filing in which it provides this disclosure, and is not required to provide the disclosure required by paragraph (v)(2)(iv) or (v)(5) of this section with respect to the total shareholder return of any peer group, or the Company-Selected Measure disclosure required by paragraph (v)(2)(vi) of this section, or the Tabular List provided pursuant to paragraph (v)(6) of this section. For purposes of paragraph (v)(2)(iii) of this section with respect to smaller reporting companies, executive compensation actually paid must be the total compensation for the covered fiscal year for each named executive officer as provided in paragraph (n)(2)(x) of this section, adjusted to deduct the amounts reported in the Summary Compensation Table pursuant to paragraphs (n)(2)(v) and (vi) of this section, and to add in their place the fair value of the amounts added in paragraph (v)(2)(iii)(C) of this section. Disclose in a footnote to the table required pursuant to paragraph (v)(1) of this section for the PEO and average remaining named executive officer compensation
the amounts deducted from, and added to, the Summary Compensation Table pursuant to this instruction, the name of each named executive officer included as a PEO or in the calculation of the average remaining named executive officer compensation, and the fiscal years in which they are included. A smaller reporting company is required to comply with paragraph (v)(7) of this section in the third filing in which it provides the disclosure required by this paragraph (v).
Instructions to paragraph (v).
1.
Transitional relief.
A registrant may provide the disclosure required by this paragraph (v) for three years, instead of five years, in the first filing in which it provides this disclosure, and may provide disclosure for an additional year in each of the two subsequent annual filings in which this disclosure is required.
2.
New registrants.
Information for fiscal years prior to the last completed fiscal year will not be required if the registrant was not required to report pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) at any time during that year.
3.
Incorporation by reference.
The information required by paragraph (v) of this section will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
(w)
Disclosure of a registrant's action to recover erroneously awarded compensation.
(1) If at any time during or after the last completed fiscal year the registrant was required to prepare an accounting restatement that required recovery of erroneously awarded compensation pursuant to the registrant's compensation recovery policy required by the listing standards adopted pursuant to 17 CFR 240.10D-1, or there was an outstanding balance as of the end of the last completed fiscal year of erroneously awarded compensation to be recovered from the application of the policy to a prior restatement, the registrant must provide the following information:
(i) For each restatement:
(A) The date on which the registrant was required to prepare an accounting restatement;
(B) The aggregate dollar amount of erroneously awarded compensation attributable to such accounting restatement, including an analysis of how the amount was calculated;
(C) If the financial reporting measure as defined in 17 CFR 240.10D-1(d) related to a stock price or total shareholder return metric, the estimates that were used in determining the erroneously awarded compensation attributable to such accounting restatement and an explanation of the methodology used for such estimates;
(D) The aggregate dollar amount of erroneously awarded compensation that remains outstanding at the end of the last completed fiscal year; and
(E) If the aggregate dollar amount of erroneously awarded compensation has not yet been determined, disclose this fact, explain the reason(s) and disclose the information required in paragraphs (w)(1)(i)(B) through (D) of this section in the next filing that is required to include disclosure pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K;
(ii) If recovery would be impracticable pursuant to 17 CFR 240.10D-1(b)(1)(iv), for each current and former named executive officer and for all other current and former executive officers as a group, disclose the amount of recovery forgone and a brief description of the reason the listed registrant decided in each case not to pursue recovery; and
(iii) For each current and former named executive officer from whom, as of the end of the last completed fiscal year, erroneously awarded compensation had been outstanding for 180 days or longer since the date the registrant determined the amount the individual owed, disclose the dollar amount of outstanding erroneously awarded compensation due from each such individual.
(2) If at any time during or after its last completed fiscal year the registrant was required to prepare an accounting restatement, and the registrant concluded that recovery of erroneously awarded compensation was not required pursuant to the registrant's compensation recovery policy
required by the listing standards adopted pursuant to 17 CFR 240.10D-1, briefly explain why application of the recovery policy resulted in this conclusion.
(3) The information must appear with, and in the same format as, the rest of the disclosure required to be provided pursuant to this Item 402. The information is required only in proxy or information statements that call for Item 402 disclosure and the registrant's annual report on Form 10-K, and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act, except to the extent that the listed registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
(4) The disclosure must be provided in an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T and the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(x)
Disclosure of the registrant's policies and practices related to the grant of certain equity awards close in time to the release of material nonpublic information.
(1) Discuss the registrant's policies and practices on the timing of awards of options in relation to the disclosure of material nonpublic information by the registrant, including how the board determines when to grant such awards (for example, whether such awards are granted on a predetermined schedule); whether the board or compensation committee takes material nonpublic information into account when determining the timing and terms of such an award, and, if so, how the board or compensation committee takes material nonpublic information into account when determining the timing and terms of such an award; and whether the registrant has timed the disclosure of material nonpublic information for the purpose of affecting the value of executive compensation.
(2)(i) If, during the last completed fiscal year, the registrant awarded options to a named executive officer in the period beginning four business days before the filing of a periodic report on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter) or Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter), or the filing or furnishing of a current report on Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) that discloses material nonpublic information (other than a current report on Form 8-K disclosing a material new option award grant under Item 5.02(e) of that form), and ending one business day after the filing or furnishing of such report provide the information specified in paragraph (x)(2)(ii) of this section, concerning each such award for each of the named executive officers in the following tabular format:
Table 13 to paragraph (
x
)(2)(
i
)
Name
Grant date
Number of securities
underlying the award
Exercise
price of the award
($/Sh)
Grant date fair value of the award
Percentage change in the closing market price of the securities underlying the award between the trading day ending immediately prior to the disclosure of material nonpublic information and the trading day beginning immediately following the disclosure of material nonpublic
information
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
PEO
PFO
A
B
C
(ii) The Table shall include:
(A) The name of the named executive officer (column (a));
(B) On an award-by-award basis, the grant date of the option award reported in the table (column (b));
(C) On an award-by-award basis, the number of securities underlying the options, (column (c));
(D) On an award-by-award basis, the per-share exercise price of the options (column (d));
(E) On an award-by-award basis, the grant date fair value of each award computed using the same methodology as used for the registrant's financial statements under generally accepted accounting principles (column (e)).
(F) For each instrument reported in column (b), disclose the percentage change in the market price of the underlying securities between the closing market price of the security one trading day prior to and the trading day beginning immediately following the disclosure of material nonpublic information (column (f)).
Instruction to paragraph (x)(2).
A registrant that is a smaller reporting company or emerging growth company may limit the disclosures in the table to its PEO, the two most highly compensated executive officers other than the PEO who were serving as executive officers at the end of the last completed fiscal year, and up to two additional individuals who would have been the most highly compensated but for the fact that the individual was not serving as an executive officer at the end of the last completed fiscal year.
(3) The disclosure provided pursuant to this paragraph (x) must be provided in an Interactive Data File as required by 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T) in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual.
[71 FR 53241, Sept. 8, 2006; 71 FR 56225, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 78350, Dec. 29, 2006; 73 FR 958, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 68362, Dec. 23, 2009; 76 FR 6043, Feb. 2, 2011; 76 FR 50121, Aug. 12, 2011; 80 FR 50184, Aug. 18, 2015; 82 FR 17552, Apr. 12, 2017; 84 FR 50738, Sept. 26, 2019; 87 FR 55193, Sept. 8, 2022; 87 FR 73136, Nov. 28, 2022; 87 FR 80427, Dec. 29, 2022]
§ 229.403
(Item 403) Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management.
(a)
Security ownership of certain beneficial owners.
Furnish the following information, as of the most recent practicable date, substantially in the tabular form indicated, with respect to any person (including any “group” as that term is used in section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) who is known to the registrant to be the beneficial owner of more than five percent of any class of the registrant's voting securities. The address given in column (2) may be a business, mailing or residence address. Show in column (3) the total number of shares beneficially owned and in column (4) the percentage of class so owned. Of the number of shares shown in column (3), indicate by footnote or otherwise the amount known to be shares with respect to which such listed beneficial owner has the right to acquire beneficial ownership, as specified in Rule 13d-3(d)(1) under the Exchange Act (§ 240.13d-3(d)(1) of this chapter).
(1) Title of class
(2) Name and address of beneficial owner
(3) Amount and nature of beneficial ownership
(4) Percent of class
(b)
Security ownership of management.
Furnish the following information, as of the most recent practicable date, in substantially the tabular form indicated, as to each class of equity securities of the registrant or any of its parents or subsidiaries, including directors' qualifying shares, beneficially owned by all directors and nominees, naming them, each of the named executive officers as defined in Item 402(a)(3) (§ 229.402(a)(3)), and directors and executive officers of the registrant as a group, without naming them. Show in column (3) the total number of shares beneficially owned and in column (4) the percent of the class so owned. Of the number of shares shown in column (3), indicate, by footnote or otherwise, the amount of shares that are pledged as security and the amount of shares with respect to which such persons have the right to acquire beneficial ownership as specified in § 240.13d-3(d)(1) of this chapter.
(1)
Title of class
(2)
Name of beneficial owner
(3) Amount and nature of beneficial ownership
(4)
Percent of class
(c)
Changes in control.
Describe any arrangements, known to the registrant, including any pledge by any person of securities of the registrant or any of its parents, the operation of
which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the registrant.
Instructions to Item 403:
1. The percentages are to be calculated on the basis of the amount of outstanding securities, excluding securities held by or for the account of the registrant or its subsidiaries, plus securities deemed outstanding pursuant to Rule 13d-3(d)(1) under the Exchange Act 17 (CFR 240.13d-3(d)(1)). For purposes of paragraph (b), if the percentage of shares beneficially owned by any director or nominee, or by all directors and officers of the registrant as a group, does not exceed one percent of the class so owned, the registrant may, in lieu of furnishing a precise percentage, indicate this fact by means of an asterisk and explanatory footnote or other similar means.
2. For the purposes of this Item, beneficial ownership shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act (§ 240.13d-3 of this chapter). Include such additional subcolumns or other appropriate explanation of column (3) necessary to reflect amounts as to which the beneficial owner has (A) sole voting power, (B) shared voting power, (C) sole investment power, or (D) shared investment power.
3. The registrant shall be deemed to know the contents of any statements filed with the Commission pursuant to section 13(d) or 13(g) of the Exchange Act. When applicable, a registrant may rely upon information set forth in such statements unless the registrant knows or has reason to believe that such information is not complete or accurate or that a statement or amendment should have been filed and was not.
4. For purposes of furnishing information pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Item, the registrant may indicate the source and date of such information.
5. Where more than one beneficial owner is known to be listed for the same securities, appropriate disclosure should be made to avoid confusion. For purposes of paragraph (b), in computing the aggregate number of shares owned by directors and officers of the registrant as a group, the same shares shall not be counted more than once.
6. Paragraph (c) of this Item does not require a description of ordinary default provisions contained in the charter, trust indentures or other governing instruments relating to securities of the registrant.
7. Where the holder(s) of voting securities reported pursuant to paragraph (a) hold more than five percent of any class of voting securities of the registrant pursuant to any voting trust or similar agreement, state the title of such securities, the amount held or to be held pursuant to the trust or agreement (if not clear from the table) and the duration of the agreement. Give the names and addresses of the voting trustees and outline briefly their voting rights and other powers under the trust or agreement.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 55665, Dec. 13, 1982; 51 FR 42056, Nov. 20, 1986; 57 FR 48158, Oct. 21, 1992; 71 FR 53252, Sept. 8, 2006]
§ 229.404
(Item 404) Transactions with related persons, promoters and certain control persons.
(a)
Transactions with related persons.
Describe any transaction, since the beginning of the registrant's last fiscal year, or any currently proposed transaction, in which the registrant was or is to be a participant and the amount involved exceeds $120,000, and in which any related person had or will have a direct or indirect material interest. Disclose the following information regarding the transaction:
(1) The name of the related person and the basis on which the person is a related person.
(2) The related person's interest in the transaction with the registrant, including the related person's position(s) or relationship(s) with, or ownership in, a firm, corporation, or other entity that is a party to, or has an interest in, the transaction.
(3) The approximate dollar value of the amount involved in the transaction.
(4) The approximate dollar value of the amount of the related person's interest in the transaction, which shall be computed without regard to the amount of profit or loss.
(5) In the case of indebtedness, disclosure of the amount involved in the transaction shall include the largest aggregate amount of principal outstanding during the period for which disclosure is provided, the amount thereof outstanding as of the latest practicable date, the amount of principal paid during the periods for which disclosure is provided, the amount of interest paid during the period for which disclosure is provided, and the rate or amount of interest payable on the indebtedness.
(6) Any other information regarding the transaction or the related person in the context of the transaction that is material to investors in light of the circumstances of the particular transaction.
Instructions to Item 404(a).
1. For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Item, the term related person means:
a. Any person who was in any of the following categories at any time during the specified period for which disclosure under paragraph (a) of this Item is required:
i. Any director or executive officer of the registrant;
ii. Any nominee for director, when the information called for by paragraph (a) of this Item is being presented in a proxy or information statement relating to the election of that nominee for director; or
iii. Any immediate family member of a director or executive officer of the registrant, or of any nominee for director when the information called for by paragraph (a) of this Item is being presented in a proxy or information statement relating to the election of that nominee for director, which means any child, stepchild, parent, stepparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of such director, executive officer or nominee for director, and any person (other than a tenant or employee) sharing the household of such director, executive officer or nominee for director; and
b. Any person who was in any of the following categories when a transaction in which such person had a direct or indirect material interest occurred or existed:
i. A security holder covered by Item 403(a) (§ 229.403(a)); or
ii. Any immediate family member of any such security holder, which means any child, stepchild, parent, stepparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of such security holder, and any person (other than a tenant or employee) sharing the household of such security holder.
2. For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Item, a transaction includes, but is not limited to, any financial transaction, arrangement or relationship (including any indebtedness or guarantee of indebtedness) or any series of similar transactions, arrangements or relationships.
3. The amount involved in the transaction shall be computed by determining the dollar value of the amount involved in the transaction in question, which shall include:
a. In the case of any lease or other transaction providing for periodic payments or installments, the aggregate amount of all periodic payments or installments due on or after the beginning of the registrant's last fiscal year, including any required or optional payments due during or at the conclusion of the lease or other transaction providing for periodic payments or installments; and
b. In the case of indebtedness, the largest aggregate amount of all indebtedness outstanding at any time since the beginning of the registrant's last fiscal year and all amounts of interest payable on it during the last fiscal year.
4. In the case of a transaction involving indebtedness:
a. The following items of indebtedness may be excluded from the calculation of the amount of indebtedness and need not be disclosed: Amounts due from the related person for purchases of goods and services subject to usual trade terms, for ordinary business travel and expense payments and for other transactions in the ordinary course of business;
b. Disclosure need not be provided of any indebtedness transaction for the related persons specified in Instruction 1.b. to paragraph (a) of this Item; and
c. If the lender is a bank, savings and loan association, or broker-dealer extending credit under Federal Reserve Regulation T (12 CFR part 220) and the loans are not disclosed as past due, nonaccrual or troubled debt restructurings in the consolidated financial statements, disclosure under paragraph (a) of this Item may consist of a statement, if such is the case, that the loans to such persons:
i. Were made in the ordinary course of business;
ii. Were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable loans with persons not related to the lender; and
iii. Did not involve more than the normal risk of collectibility or present other unfavorable features.
5.a. Disclosure of an employment relationship or transaction involving an executive officer and any related compensation solely resulting from that employment relationship or transaction need not be provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Item if:
i. The compensation arising from the relationship or transaction is reported pursuant to Item 402 (§ 229.402);
ii. The executive officer is not an immediate family member (as specified in Instruction 1 to paragraph (a) of this Item) and such compensation would have been reported under Item 402 (§ 229.402) as compensation earned for services to the registrant if the executive officer was a named executive officer as that term is defined in Item 402(a)(3) (§ 229.402(a)(3)), and such compensation had been approved, or recommended to the board of directors of the registrant for approval, by the compensation committee of the board of directors (or group of independent directors performing a similar function) of the registrant; or
iii. The transaction involves the recovery of erroneously awarded compensation computed as provided in 17 CFR 240.10D-1(b)(1)(iii) and the applicable listing standards for the registrant's securities, that is
disclosed pursuant to Item 402(w) (§ 229.402(w)).
b. Disclosure of compensation to a director need not be provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Item if the compensation is reported pursuant to Item 402(k) (§ 229.402(k)).
6. A person who has a position or relationship with a firm, corporation, or other entity that engages in a transaction with the registrant shall not be deemed to have an indirect material interest within the meaning of paragraph (a) of this Item where:
a. The interest arises only:
i. From such person's position as a director of another corporation or organization that is a party to the transaction; or
ii. From the direct or indirect ownership by such person and all other persons specified in Instruction 1 to paragraph (a) of this Item, in the aggregate, of less than a ten percent equity interest in another person (other than a partnership) which is a party to the transaction; or
iii. From both such position and ownership; or
b. The interest arises only from such person's position as a limited partner in a partnership in which the person and all other persons specified in Instruction 1 to paragraph (a) of this Item, have an interest of less than ten percent, and the person is not a general partner of and does not hold another position in the partnership.
7. Disclosure need not be provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Item if:
a. The transaction is one where the rates or charges involved in the transaction are determined by competitive bids, or the transaction involves the rendering of services as a common or contract carrier, or public utility, at rates or charges fixed in conformity with law or governmental authority;
b. The transaction involves services as a bank depositary of funds, transfer agent, registrar, trustee under a trust indenture, or similar services; or
c. The interest of the related person arises solely from the ownership of a class of equity securities of the registrant and all holders of that class of equity securities of the registrant received the same benefit on a pro rata basis.
(b)
Review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons.
(1) Describe the registrant's policies and procedures for the review, approval, or ratification of any transaction required to be reported under paragraph (a) of this Item. While the material features of such policies and procedures will vary depending on the particular circumstances, examples of such features may include, in given cases, among other things:
(i) The types of transactions that are covered by such policies and procedures;
(ii) The standards to be applied pursuant to such policies and procedures;
(iii) The persons or groups of persons on the board of directors or otherwise who are responsible for applying such policies and procedures; and
(iv) A statement of whether such policies and procedures are in writing and, if not, how such policies and procedures are evidenced.
(2) Identify any transaction required to be reported under paragraph (a) of this Item since the beginning of the registrant's last fiscal year where such policies and procedures did not require review, approval or ratification or where such policies and procedures were not followed.
Instruction to Item 404(b).
Disclosure need not be provided pursuant to this paragraph regarding any transaction that occurred at a time before the related person became one of the enumerated persons in Instruction 1.a.i., ii., or iii. to Item 404(a) if such transaction did not continue after the related person became one of the enumerated persons in Instruction 1.a.i., ii., or iii. to Item 404(a).
(c)
Promoters and certain control persons.
(1) Registrants that are filing a registration statement on Form S-1 under the Securities Act (§ 239.11 of this chapter) or on Form 10 under the Exchange Act (§ 249.210 of this chapter) and that had a promoter at any time during the past five fiscal years shall:
(i) State the names of the promoter(s), the nature and amount of anything of value (including money, property, contracts, options or rights of any kind) received or to be received by each promoter, directly or indirectly, from the registrant and the nature and amount of any assets, services or other consideration therefore received or to be received by the registrant; and
(ii) As to any assets acquired or to be acquired by the registrant from a promoter, state the amount at which the assets were acquired or are to be acquired and the principle followed or to be followed in determining such amount, and identify the persons making the determination and their relationship, if any, with the registrant or
any promoter. If the assets were acquired by the promoter within two years prior to their transfer to the registrant, also state the cost thereof to the promoter.
(2) Registrants shall provide the disclosure required by paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this Item as to any person who acquired control of a registrant that is a shell company, or any person that is part of a group, consisting of two or more persons that agree to act together for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of equity securities of a registrant, that acquired control of a registrant that is a shell company. For purposes of this Item,
shell company
has the same meaning as in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.405) and Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.12b-2).
(d)
Smaller reporting companies.
A registrant that qualifies as a “smaller reporting company,” as defined by § 229.10(f)(1), must provide the following information in order to comply with this Item:
(1) The information required by paragraph (a) of this Item for the period specified there for a transaction in which the amount involved exceeds the lesser of $120,000 or one percent of the average of the smaller reporting company's total assets at year end for the last two completed fiscal years;
(2) The information required by paragraph (c) of this Item; and
(3) A list of all parents of the smaller reporting company showing the basis of control and as to each parent, the percentage of voting securities owned or other basis of control by its immediate parent, if any.
Instruction to Item 404(d).
1. Include information for any material underwriting discounts and commissions upon the sale of securities by the smaller reporting company where any of the persons specified in paragraph (a) of this Item was or is to be a principal underwriter or is a controlling person or member of a firm that was or is to be a principal underwriter.
2. For smaller reporting companies information shall be given for the period specified in paragraph (a) of this Item and, in addition, for the fiscal year preceding the small reporting company's last fiscal year.
Instructions to Item 404.
1. If the information called for by this Item is being presented in a registration statement filed pursuant to the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, information shall be given for the periods specified in the Item and, in addition, for the two fiscal years preceding the registrant's last fiscal year, unless the information is being incorporated by reference into a registration statement on Form S-4 (17 CFR 239.25), in which case, information shall be given for the periods specified in the Item.
2. A foreign private issuer will be deemed to comply with this Item if it provides the information required by Item 7.B. of Form 20-F (17 CFR 249.220f) with more detailed information provided if otherwise made publicly available or required to be disclosed by the issuer's home jurisdiction or a market in which its securities are listed or traded.
[71 FR 53252, Sept. 8, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 964, Jan. 4, 2008; 85 FR 66140, Oct. 16, 2020; 87 FR 73137, Nov. 28, 2022]
§ 229.405
(Item 405) Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.
(a)
Reporting obligation.
Every registrant having a class of equity securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
) and every closed-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) must:
(1) Under the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports,” identify each person who, at any time during the fiscal year, was a director, officer, beneficial owner of more than ten percent of any class of equity securities of the registrant registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or any other person subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to the registrant because of the requirements of Section 30 of the Investment Company Act (“reporting person”) that failed to file on a timely basis reports required by Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act during the most recent fiscal year or prior fiscal years.
(2) For each such person, set forth the number of late reports, the number of transactions that were not reported on a timely basis, and any known failure to file a required form. A known failure to file would include, but not be limited to, a failure to file a Form 3, which is required of all reporting persons, and a failure to file a Form 5 in the absence of the written representation referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of
this section, unless the registrant otherwise knows that no Form 5 is required.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a) of Item 405.
If no disclosure is required, registrants are encouraged to exclude the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports.”
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a) of Item 405.
The registrant is only required to disclose a failure to file timely once. For example, if in the most recently concluded fiscal year a reporting person filed a Form 4 disclosing a transaction that took place in the prior fiscal year, and should have been reported in that year, the registrant should disclose that late filing and transaction pursuant to this Item 405 with respect to the most recently concluded fiscal year, but not in material filed with respect to subsequent years.
(b)
Scope of the Inquiry.
In determining whether disclosure is required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the registrant may rely only on the following:
(1) A review of Forms 3 and 4 (17 CFR 249.103 and 249.104) and amendments thereto filed electronically with the Commission during the registrant's most recent fiscal year;
(2) A review of Forms 5 (17 CFR 249.105) and amendments thereto filed electronically with the Commission with respect to the registrant's most recent fiscal year; and
(3) Any written representation from the reporting person that no Form 5 is required. The registrant must maintain the representation in its records for two years, making a copy available to the Commission or its staff upon request.
[84 FR 12717, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 229.406
(Item 406) Code of ethics.
(a) Disclose whether the registrant has adopted a code of ethics that applies to the registrant's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions. If the registrant has not adopted such a code of ethics, explain why it has not done so.
(b) For purposes of this Item 406, the term
code of ethics
means written standards that are reasonably designed to deter wrongdoing and to promote:
(1) Honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships;
(2) Full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in reports and documents that a registrant files with, or submits to, the Commission and in other public communications made by the registrant;
(3) Compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations;
(4) The prompt internal reporting of violations of the code to an appropriate person or persons identified in the code; and
(5) Accountability for adherence to the code.
(c) The registrant must:
(1) File with the Commission a copy of its code of ethics that applies to the registrant's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, as an exhibit to its annual report;
(2) Post the text of such code of ethics on its Internet website and disclose, in its annual report, its Internet address and the fact that it has posted such code of ethics on its Internet Web site; or
(3) Undertake in its annual report filed with the Commission to provide to any person without charge, upon request, a copy of such code of ethics and explain the manner in which such request may be made.
(d) If the registrant intends to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics that applies to the registrant's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions and that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition enumerated in paragraph (b) of this Item by posting such information on its internet website, disclose the registrant's internet address and such intention.
Instructions to Item 406.
1. A registrant may have separate codes of ethics for different
types of officers. Furthermore, a
code of ethics
within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this Item may be a portion of a broader document that addresses additional topics or that applies to more persons than those specified in paragraph (a). In satisfying the requirements of paragraph (c), a registrant need only file, post or provide the portions of a broader document that constitutes a
code of ethics
as defined in paragraph (b) and that apply to the persons specified in paragraph (a).
2. If a registrant elects to satisfy paragraph (c) of this Item by posting its code of ethics on its website pursuant to paragraph (c)(2), the code of ethics must remain accessible on its Web site for as long as the registrant remains subject to the requirements of this Item and chooses to comply with this Item by posting its code on its Web site pursuant to paragraph (c)(2).
[68 FR 5127, Jan. 31, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 1594, Jan. 7, 2005; 83 FR 50211, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 229.407
(Item 407) Corporate governance.
(a)
Director independence.
Identify each director and, when the disclosure called for by this paragraph is being presented in a proxy or information statement relating to the election of directors, each nominee for director, that is independent under the independence standards applicable to the registrant under paragraph (a)(1) of this Item. In addition, if such independence standards contain independence requirements for committees of the board of directors, identify each director that is a member of the compensation, nominating or audit committee that is not independent under such committee independence standards. If the registrant does not have a separately designated audit, nominating or compensation committee or committee performing similar functions, the registrant must provide the disclosure of directors that are not independent with respect to all members of the board of directors applying such committee independence standards.
(1) In determining whether or not the director or nominee for director is independent for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Item, the registrant shall use the applicable definition of independence, as follows:
(i) If the registrant is a listed issuer whose securities are listed on a national securities exchange or in an inter-dealer quotation system which has requirements that a majority of the board of directors be independent, the registrant's definition of independence that it uses for determining if a majority of the board of directors is independent in compliance with the listing standards applicable to the registrant. When determining whether the members of a committee of the board of directors are independent, the registrant's definition of independence that it uses for determining if the members of that specific committee are independent in compliance with the independence standards applicable for the members of the specific committee in the listing standards of the national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system that the registrant uses for determining if a majority of the board of directors are independent. If the registrant does not have independence standards for a committee, the independence standards for that specific committee in the listing standards of the national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system that the registrant uses for determining if a majority of the board of directors are independent.
(ii) If the registrant is not a listed issuer, a definition of independence of a national securities exchange or of an inter-dealer quotation system which has requirements that a majority of the board of directors be independent, and state which definition is used. Whatever such definition the registrant chooses, it must use the same definition with respect to all directors and nominees for director. When determining whether the members of a specific committee of the board of directors are independent, if the national securities exchange or national securities association whose standards are used has independence standards for the members of a specific committee, use those committee specific standards.
(iii) If the information called for by paragraph (a) of this Item is being presented in a registration statement on Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter) under the Securities Act or on a Form 10 (§ 249.210 of this chapter) under the Exchange Act where the registrant has
applied for listing with a national securities exchange or in an inter-dealer quotation system that has requirements that a majority of the board of directors be independent, the definition of independence that the registrant uses for determining if a majority of the board of directors is independent, and the definition of independence that the registrant uses for determining if members of the specific committee of the board of directors are independent, that is in compliance with the independence listing standards of the national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which it has applied for listing, or if the registrant has not adopted such definitions, the independence standards for determining if the majority of the board of directors is independent and if members of the committee of the board of directors are independent of that national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system.
(2) If the registrant uses its own definitions for determining whether its directors and nominees for director, and members of specific committees of the board of directors, are independent, disclose whether these definitions are available to security holders on the registrant's Web site. If so, provide the registrant's Web site address. If not, include a copy of these policies in an appendix to the registrant's proxy statement or information statement that is provided to security holders at least once every three fiscal years or if the policies have been materially amended since the beginning of the registrant's last fiscal year. If a current copy of the policies is not available to security holders on the registrant's Web site, and is not included as an appendix to the registrant's proxy statement or information statement, identify the most recent fiscal year in which the policies were so included in satisfaction of this requirement.
(3) For each director and nominee for director that is identified as independent, describe, by specific category or type, any transactions, relationships or arrangements not disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) (§ 229.404(a)), or for investment companies, Item 22(b) of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter), that were considered by the board of directors under the applicable independence definitions in determining that the director is independent.
Instructions to Item 407(a).
1. If the registrant is a listed issuer whose securities are listed on a national securities exchange or in an inter-dealer quotation system which has requirements that a majority of the board of directors be independent, and also has exemptions to those requirements (for independence of a majority of the board of directors or committee member independence) upon which the registrant relied, disclose the exemption relied upon and explain the basis for the registrant's conclusion that such exemption is applicable. The same disclosure should be provided if the registrant is not a listed issuer and the national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system selected by the registrant has exemptions that are applicable to the registrant. Any national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system which has requirements that at least 50 percent of the members of a small business issuer's board of directors must be independent shall be considered a national securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system which has requirements that a majority of the board of directors be independent for the purposes of the disclosure required by paragraph (a) of this Item.
2. Registrants shall provide the disclosure required by paragraph (a) of this Item for any person who served as a director during any part of the last completed fiscal year, except that no information called for by paragraph (a) of this Item need be given in a registration statement filed at a time when the registrant is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78
o
(d)) respecting any director who is no longer a director at the time of effectiveness of the registration statement.
3. The description of the specific categories or types of transactions, relationships or arrangements required by paragraph (a)(3) of this Item must be provided in such detail as is necessary to fully describe the nature of the transactions, relationships or arrangements.
(b)
Board meetings and committees; annual meeting attendance.
(1) State the total number of meetings of the board of directors (including regularly scheduled and special meetings) which were held during the last full fiscal year. Name each incumbent director who during the last full fiscal year attended fewer than 75 percent of the aggregate of:
(i) The total number of meetings of the board of directors (held during the
period for which he has been a director); and
(ii) The total number of meetings held by all committees of the board on which he served (during the periods that he served).
(2) Describe the registrant's policy, if any, with regard to board members' attendance at annual meetings of security holders and state the number of board members who attended the prior year's annual meeting.
Instruction to Item 407(b)(2).
In lieu of providing the information required by paragraph (b)(2) of this Item in the proxy statement, the registrant may instead provide the registrant's Web site address where such information appears.
(3) State whether or not the registrant has standing audit, nominating and compensation committees of the board of directors, or committees performing similar functions. If the registrant has such committees, however designated, identify each committee member, state the number of committee meetings held by each such committee during the last fiscal year and describe briefly the functions performed by each such committee. Such disclosure need not be provided to the extent it is duplicative of disclosure provided in accordance with paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of this Item.
(c)
Nominating committee.
(1) If the registrant does not have a standing nominating committee or committee performing similar functions, state the basis for the view of the board of directors that it is appropriate for the registrant not to have such a committee and identify each director who participates in the consideration of director nominees.
(2) Provide the following information regarding the registrant's director nomination process:
(i) State whether or not the nominating committee has a charter. If the nominating committee has a charter, provide the disclosure required by Instruction 2 to this Item regarding the nominating committee charter;
(ii) If the nominating committee has a policy with regard to the consideration of any director candidates recommended by security holders, provide a description of the material elements of that policy, which shall include, but need not be limited to, a statement as to whether the committee will consider director candidates recommended by security holders;
(iii) If the nominating committee does not have a policy with regard to the consideration of any director candidates recommended by security holders, state that fact and state the basis for the view of the board of directors that it is appropriate for the registrant not to have such a policy;
(iv) If the nominating committee will consider candidates recommended by security holders, describe the procedures to be followed by security holders in submitting such recommendations;
(v) Describe any specific minimum qualifications that the nominating committee believes must be met by a nominating committee-recommended nominee for a position on the registrant's board of directors, and describe any specific qualities or skills that the nominating committee believes are necessary for one or more of the registrant's directors to possess;
(vi) Describe the nominating committee's process for identifying and evaluating nominees for director, including nominees recommended by security holders, and any differences in the manner in which the nominating committee evaluates nominees for director based on whether the nominee is recommended by a security holder, and whether, and if so how, the nominating committee (or the board) considers diversity in identifying nominees for director. If the nominating committee (or the board) has a policy with regard to the consideration of diversity in identifying director nominees, describe how this policy is implemented, as well as how the nominating committee (or the board) assesses the effectiveness of its policy;
(vii) With regard to each nominee approved by the nominating committee for inclusion on the registrant's proxy card (other than nominees who are executive officers or who are directors standing for re-election), state which one or more of the following categories of persons or entities recommended that nominee: Security holder, non-management director, chief executive officer, other executive officer, third-
party search firm, or other specified source. With regard to each such nominee approved by a nominating committee of an investment company, state which one or more of the following additional categories of persons or entities recommended that nominee: Security holder, director, chief executive officer, other executive officer, or employee of the investment company's investment adviser, principal underwriter, or any affiliated person of the investment adviser or principal underwriter;
(viii) If the registrant pays a fee to any third party or parties to identify or evaluate or assist in identifying or evaluating potential nominees, disclose the function performed by each such third party; and
(ix) If the registrant's nominating committee received, by a date not later than the 120th calendar day before the date of the registrant's proxy statement released to security holders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting, a recommended nominee from a security holder that beneficially owned more than 5% of the registrant's voting common stock for at least one year as of the date the recommendation was made, or from a group of security holders that beneficially owned, in the aggregate, more than 5% of the registrant's voting common stock, with each of the securities used to calculate that ownership held for at least one year as of the date the recommendation was made, identify the candidate and the security holder or security holder group that recommended the candidate and disclose whether the nominating committee chose to nominate the candidate,
provided, however,
that no such identification or disclosure is required without the written consent of both the security holder or security holder group and the candidate to be so identified.
Instructions to Item 407(c)(2)(ix).
1. For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this Item, the percentage of securities held by a nominating security holder may be determined using information set forth in the registrant's most recent quarterly or annual report, and any current report subsequent thereto, filed with the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act (or, in the case of a registrant that is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the registrant's most recent report on Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter)), unless the party relying on such report knows or has reason to believe that the information contained therein is inaccurate.
2. For purposes of the registrant's obligation to provide the disclosure specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this Item, where the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date of the previous year's meeting, the obligation under that Item will arise where the registrant receives the security holder recommendation a reasonable time before the registrant begins to print and mail its proxy materials.
3. For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this Item, the percentage of securities held by a recommending security holder, as well as the holding period of those securities, may be determined by the registrant if the security holder is the registered holder of the securities. If the security holder is not the registered owner of the securities, he or she can submit one of the following to the registrant to evidence the required ownership percentage and holding period:
a. A written statement from the “record” holder of the securities (usually a broker or bank) verifying that, at the time the security holder made the recommendation, he or she had held the required securities for at least one year; or
b. If the security holder has filed a Schedule 13D (§ 240.13d-101 of this chapter), Schedule 13G (§ 240.13d-102 of this chapter), Form 3 (§ 249.103 of this chapter), Form 4 (§ 249.104 of this chapter), and/or Form 5 (§ 249.105 of this chapter), or amendments to those documents or updated forms, reflecting ownership of the securities as of or before the date of the recommendation, a copy of the schedule and/or form, and any subsequent amendments reporting a change in ownership level, as well as a written statement that the security holder continuously held the securities for the one-year period as of the date of the recommendation.
4. For purposes of the registrant's obligation to provide the disclosure specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this Item, the security holder or group must have provided to the registrant, at the time of the recommendation, the written consent of all parties to be identified and, where the security holder or group members are not registered holders, proof that the security holder or group satisfied the required ownership percentage and holding period as of the date of the recommendation.
Instruction to Item 407(c)(2).
For purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this Item, the term
nominating committee
refers not only to nominating committees and committees performing similar functions, but also to groups
of directors fulfilling the role of a nominating committee, including the entire board of directors.
(3) Describe any material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to the registrant's board of directors, where those changes were implemented after the registrant last provided disclosure in response to the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this Item, or paragraph (c)(3) of this Item.
Instructions to Item 407(c)(3).
1. The disclosure required in paragraph (c)(3) of this Item need only be provided in a registrant's quarterly or annual reports.
2. For purposes of paragraph (c)(3) of this Item, adoption of procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to the registrant's board of directors, where the registrant's most recent disclosure in response to the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this Item, or paragraph (c)(3) of this Item, indicated that the registrant did not have in place such procedures, will constitute a material change.
(d)
Audit committee.
(1) State whether or not the audit committee has a charter. If the audit committee has a charter, provide the disclosure required by Instruction 2 to this Item regarding the audit committee charter.
(2) If a listed issuer's board of directors determines, in accordance with the listing standards applicable to the issuer, to appoint a director to the audit committee who is not independent (apart from the requirements in § 240.10A-3 of this chapter), including as a result of exceptional or limited or similar circumstances, disclose the nature of the relationship that makes that individual not independent and the reasons for the board of directors' determination.
(3)(i) The audit committee must state whether:
(A) The audit committee has reviewed and discussed the audited financial statements with management;
(B) The audit committee has discussed with the independent auditors the matters required to be discussed by the applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) and the Commission;
(C) The audit committee has received the written disclosures and the letter from the independent accountant required by applicable requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding the independent accountant's communications with the audit committee concerning independence, and has discussed with the independent accountant the independent accountant's independence; and
(D) Based on the review and discussions referred to in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) through (d)(3)(i)(C) of this Item, the audit committee recommended to the board of directors that the audited financial statements be included in the company's annual report on Form 10-K (17 CFR 249.310) (or, for closed-end investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), the annual report to shareholders required by section 30(e) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(e)) and Rule 30d-1 (17 CFR 270.30d-1) thereunder) for the last fiscal year for filing with the Commission.
(ii) The name of each member of the company's audit committee (or, in the absence of an audit committee, the board committee performing equivalent functions or the entire board of directors) must appear below the disclosure required by paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this Item.
(4)(i) If the registrant meets the following requirements, provide the disclosure in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this Item:
(A) The registrant is a listed issuer, as defined in § 240.10A-3 of this chapter;
(B) The registrant is filing an annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) or a proxy statement or information statement pursuant to the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
) if action is to be taken with respect to the election of directors; and
(C) The registrant is neither:
(
1
) A subsidiary of another listed issuer that is relying on the exemption in § 240.10A-3(c)(2) of this chapter; nor
(
2
) Relying on any of the exemptions in § 240.10A-3(c)(4) through (c)(7) of this chapter.
(ii)(A) State whether or not the registrant has a separately-designated standing audit committee established in accordance with section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(58)(A)), or a committee performing similar functions. If the registrant has such a committee, however designated, identify each committee member. If the entire board of directors is acting as the registrant's audit committee as specified in section 3(a)(58)(B) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(58)(B)), so state.
(B) If applicable, provide the disclosure required by § 240.10A-3(d) of this chapter regarding an exemption from the listing standards for audit committees.
(5)
Audit committee financial expert.
(i)(A) Disclose that the registrant's board of directors has determined that the registrant either:
(
1
) Has at least one audit committee financial expert serving on its audit committee; or
(
2
) Does not have an audit committee financial expert serving on its audit committee.
(B) If the registrant provides the disclosure required by paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A)(
1
) of this Item, it must disclose the name of the audit committee financial expert and whether that person is independent, as
independence
for audit committee members is defined in the listing standards applicable to the listed issuer.
(C) If the registrant provides the disclosure required by paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A)(
2
) of this Item, it must explain why it does not have an audit committee financial expert.
Instruction to Item 407(d)(5)(i).
If the registrant's board of directors has determined that the registrant has more than one audit committee financial expert serving on its audit committee, the registrant may, but is not required to, disclose the names of those additional persons. A registrant choosing to identify such persons must indicate whether they are independent pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(i)(B) of this Item.
(ii) For purposes of this Item, an
audit committee financial expert
means a person who has the following attributes:
(A) An understanding of generally accepted accounting principles and financial statements;
(B) The ability to assess the general application of such principles in connection with the accounting for estimates, accruals and reserves;
(C) Experience preparing, auditing, analyzing or evaluating financial statements that present a breadth and level of complexity of accounting issues that are generally comparable to the breadth and complexity of issues that can reasonably be expected to be raised by the registrant's financial statements, or experience actively supervising one or more persons engaged in such activities;
(D) An understanding of internal control over financial reporting; and
(E) An understanding of audit committee functions.
(iii) A person shall have acquired such attributes through:
(A) Education and experience as a principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller, public accountant or auditor or experience in one or more positions that involve the performance of similar functions;
(B) Experience actively supervising a principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller, public accountant, auditor or person performing similar functions;
(C) Experience overseeing or assessing the performance of companies or public accountants with respect to the preparation, auditing or evaluation of financial statements; or
(D) Other relevant experience.
(iv)
Safe harbor.
(A) A person who is determined to be an audit committee financial expert will not be deemed an
expert
for any purpose, including without limitation for purposes of section 11 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77k), as a result of being designated or identified as an audit committee financial expert pursuant to this Item 407.
(B) The designation or identification of a person as an audit committee financial expert pursuant to this Item 407 does not impose on such person any duties, obligations or liability that are greater than the duties, obligations and liability imposed on such person as a member of the audit committee and board of directors in the absence of such designation or identification.
(C) The designation or identification of a person as an audit committee financial expert pursuant to this Item does not affect the duties, obligations or liability of any other member of the audit committee or board of directors.
Instructions to Item 407(d)(5).
1. The disclosure under paragraph (d)(5) of this Item is required only in a registrant's annual report. The registrant need not provide the disclosure required by paragraph (d)(5) of this Item in a proxy or information statement unless that registrant is electing to incorporate this information by reference from the proxy or information statement into its annual report pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K (17 CFR 249.310).
2. If a person qualifies as an audit committee financial expert by means of having held a position described in paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(D) of this Item, the registrant shall provide a brief listing of that person's relevant experience. Such disclosure may be made by reference to disclosures required under Item 401(e) (§ 229.401(e)).
3. In the case of a foreign private issuer with a two-tier board of directors, for purposes of paragraph (d)(5) of this Item, the term
board of directors
means the supervisory or non-management board. In the case of a foreign private issuer meeting the requirements of § 240.10A-3(c)(3) of this chapter, for purposes of paragraph (d)(5) of this Item, the term
board of directors
means the issuer's board of auditors (or similar body) or statutory auditors, as applicable. Also, in the case of a foreign private issuer, the term
generally accepted accounting principles
in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(A) of this Item means the body of generally accepted accounting principles used by that issuer in its primary financial statements filed with the Commission.
4. A registrant that is an Asset-Backed Issuer (as defined in § 229.1101) is not required to disclose the information required by paragraph (d)(5) of this Item.
Instructions to Item 407(d).
1. The information required by paragraphs (d)(1)-(3) of this Item shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material,” or to be “filed” with the Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C (17 CFR 240.14a-1 through 240.14b-2 or 240.14c-1 through 240.14c-101), other than as provided in this Item, or to the liabilities of section 18 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78r), except to the extent that the registrant specifically requests that the information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. Such information will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
2. The disclosure required by paragraphs (d)(1)-(3) of this Item need only be provided one time during any fiscal year.
3. The disclosure required by paragraph (d)(3) of this Item need not be provided in any filings other than a registrant's proxy or information statement relating to an annual meeting of security holders at which directors are to be elected (or special meeting or written consents in lieu of such meeting).
(e)
Compensation committee.
(1) If the registrant does not have a standing compensation committee or committee performing similar functions, state the basis for the view of the board of directors that it is appropriate for the registrant not to have such a committee and identify each director who participates in the consideration of executive officer and director compensation.
(2) State whether or not the compensation committee has a charter. If the compensation committee has a charter, provide the disclosure required by Instruction 2 to this Item regarding the compensation committee charter.
(3) Provide a narrative description of the registrant's processes and procedures for the consideration and determination of executive and director compensation, including:
(i)(A) The scope of authority of the compensation committee (or persons performing the equivalent functions); and
(B) The extent to which the compensation committee (or persons performing the equivalent functions) may delegate any authority described in paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this Item to other persons, specifying what authority may be so delegated and to whom;
(ii) Any role of executive officers in determining or recommending the amount or form of executive and director compensation; and
(iii) Any role of compensation consultants in determining or recommending the amount or form of executive and director compensation (other than any role
limited
to consulting on any broad-based plan that does not discriminate in scope, terms, or operation, in favor of executive officers or directors of the registrant, and that is available generally to all salaried employees; or providing information that either is not customized for a particular registrant or that is customized based on parameters that are not developed by the compensation consultant, and about which the compensation consultant does not provide advice) during the registrant's last completed fiscal year, identifying such consultants, stating whether such consultants
were engaged directly by the compensation committee (or persons performing the equivalent functions) or any other person, describing the nature and scope of their assignment, and the material elements of the instructions or directions given to the consultants with respect to the performance of their duties under the engagement:
(A) If such compensation consultant was engaged by the compensation committee (or persons performing the equivalent functions) to provide advice or recommendations on the amount or form of executive and director compensation (other than any role
limited
to consulting on any broad-based plan that does not discriminate in scope, terms, or operation, in favor of executive officers or directors of the registrant, and that is available generally to all salaried employees; or providing information that either is not customized for a particular registrant or that is customized based on parameters that are not developed by the compensation consultant, and about which the compensation consultant does not provide advice) and the compensation consultant or its affiliates also provided additional services to the registrant or its affiliates in an amount in excess of $120,000 during the registrant's last completed fiscal year, then disclose the aggregate fees for determining or recommending the amount or form of executive and director compensation and the aggregate fees for such additional services. Disclose whether the decision to engage the compensation consultant or its affiliates for these other services was made, or recommended, by management, and whether the compensation committee or the board approved such other services of the compensation consultant or its affiliates.
(B) If the compensation committee (or persons performing the equivalent functions) has not engaged a compensation consultant, but management has engaged a compensation consultant to provide advice or recommendations on the amount or form of executive and director compensation (other than any role
limited
to consulting on any broad-based plan that does not discriminate in scope, terms, or operation, in favor of executive officers or directors of the registrant, and that is available generally to all salaried employees; or providing information that either is not customized for a particular registrant or that is customized based on parameters that are not developed by the compensation consultant, and about which the compensation consultant does not provide advice) and such compensation consultant or its affiliates has provided additional services to the registrant in an amount in excess of $120,000 during the registrant's last completed fiscal year, then disclose the aggregate fees for determining or recommending the amount or form of executive and director compensation and the aggregate fees for any additional services provided by the compensation consultant or its affiliates.
(iv) With regard to any compensation consultant identified in response to Item 407(e)(3)(iii) whose work has raised any conflict of interest, disclose the nature of the conflict and how the conflict is being addressed.
Instruction to Item 407(e)(3)(iv).
For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3)(iv), the factors listed in § 240.10C-1(b)(4)(i) through (vi) of this chapter are among the factors that should be considered in determining whether a conflict of interest exists.
(4) Under the caption “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation”:
(i) Identify each person who served as a member of the compensation committee of the registrant's board of directors (or board committee performing equivalent functions) during the last completed fiscal year, indicating each committee member who:
(A) Was, during the fiscal year, an officer or employee of the registrant;
(B) Was formerly an officer of the registrant; or
(C) Had any relationship requiring disclosure by the registrant under any paragraph of Item 404 (§ 229.404). In this event, the disclosure required by Item 404 (§ 229.404) shall accompany such identification.
(ii) If the registrant has no compensation committee (or other board committee performing equivalent functions), the registrant shall identify each officer and employee of the registrant, and any former officer of the
registrant, who, during the last completed fiscal year, participated in deliberations of the registrant's board of directors concerning executive officer compensation.
(iii) Describe any of the following relationships that existed during the last completed fiscal year:
(A) An executive officer of the registrant served as a member of the compensation committee (or other board committee performing equivalent functions or, in the absence of any such committee, the entire board of directors) of another entity, one of whose executive officers served on the compensation committee (or other board committee performing equivalent functions or, in the absence of any such committee, the entire board of directors) of the registrant;
(B) An executive officer of the registrant served as a director of another entity, one of whose executive officers served on the compensation committee (or other board committee performing equivalent functions or, in the absence of any such committee, the entire board of directors) of the registrant; and
(C) An executive officer of the registrant served as a member of the compensation committee (or other board committee performing equivalent functions or, in the absence of any such committee, the entire board of directors) of another entity, one of whose executive officers served as a director of the registrant.
(iv) Disclosure required under paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this Item regarding a compensation committee member or other director of the registrant who also served as an executive officer of another entity shall be accompanied by the disclosure called for by Item 404 with respect to that person.
Instruction to Item 407(e)(4).
For purposes of paragraph (e)(4) of this Item, the term
entity
shall not include an entity exempt from tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)).
(5) Under the caption “Compensation Committee Report:”
(i) The compensation committee (or other board committee performing equivalent functions or, in the absence of any such committee, the entire board of directors) must state whether:
(A) The compensation committee has reviewed and discussed the Compensation Discussion and Analysis required by Item 402(b) (§ 229.402(b)) with management; and
(B) Based on the review and discussions referred to in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A) of this Item, the compensation committee recommended to the board of directors that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the registrant's annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter), proxy statement on Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) or information statement on Schedule 14C (§ 240.14c-101 of this chapter).
(ii) The name of each member of the registrant's compensation committee (or other board committee performing equivalent functions or, in the absence of any such committee, the entire board of directors) must appear below the disclosure required by paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this Item.
Instructions to Item 407(e)(5).
1. The information required by paragraph (e)(5) of this Item shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material,” or to be “filed” with the Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C (17 CFR 240.14a-1 through 240.14b-2 or 240.14c-1 through 240.14c-101), other than as provided in this Item, or to the liabilities of section 18 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78r), except to the extent that the registrant specifically requests that the information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
2. The disclosure required by paragraph (e)(5) of this Item need not be provided in any filings other than an annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter), a proxy statement on Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) or an information statement on Schedule 14C (§ 240.14c-101 of this chapter). Such information will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference. If the registrant elects to incorporate this information by reference from the proxy or information statement into its annual report on Form 10-K pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the disclosure required by paragraph (e)(5) of this Item will be deemed furnished in the annual report on Form 10-K and will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act as a result as a result of furnishing the disclosure in this manner.
3. The disclosure required by paragraph (e)(5) of this Item need only be provided one time during any fiscal year.
(f)
Shareholder communications.
(1) State whether or not the registrant's board of directors provides a process for security holders to send communications to the board of directors and, if the registrant does not have such a process for security holders to send communications to the board of directors, state the basis for the view of the board of directors that it is appropriate for the registrant not to have such a process.
(2) If the registrant has a process for security holders to send communications to the board of directors:
(i) Describe the manner in which security holders can send communications to the board and, if applicable, to specified individual directors; and
(ii) If all security holder communications are not sent directly to board members, describe the registrant's process for determining which communications will be relayed to board members.
Instructions to Item 407(f).
1. In lieu of providing the information required by paragraph (f)(2) of this Item in the proxy statement, the registrant may instead provide the registrant's Web site address where such information appears.
2. For purposes of the disclosure required by paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this Item, a registrant's process for collecting and organizing security holder communications, as well as similar or related activities, need not be disclosed provided that the registrant's process is approved by a majority of the independent directors or, in the case of a registrant that is an investment company, a majority of the directors who are not “interested persons” of the investment company as defined in section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)).
3. For purposes of this paragraph, communications from an officer or director of the registrant will not be viewed as “security holder communications.” Communications from an employee or agent of the registrant will be viewed as “security holder communications” for purposes of this paragraph only if those communications are made solely in such employee's or agent's capacity as a security holder.
4. For purposes of this paragraph, security holder proposals submitted pursuant to § 240.14a-8 of this chapter, and communications made in connection with such proposals, will not be viewed as “security holder communications.”
(g)
Smaller reporting companies and emerging growth companies.
(1) A registrant that qualifies as a “smaller reporting company,” as defined by § 229.10(f)(1), is not required to provide:
(i) The disclosure required in paragraph (d)(5) of this Item in its first annual report filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) following the effective date of its first registration statement filed under the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) or Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
); and
(ii) The disclosure required by paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(5) of this Item.
(2) A registrant that qualifies as an “emerging growth company,” as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter), is not required to provide the disclosure required by paragraph (e)(5) of this Item.
(h)
Board leadership structure and role in risk oversight.
Briefly describe the leadership structure of the registrant's board, such as whether the same person serves as both principal executive officer and chairman of the board, or whether two individuals serve in those positions, and, in the case of a registrant that is an investment company, whether the chairman of the board is an “interested person” of the registrant as defined in section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)). If one person serves as both principal executive officer and chairman of the board, or if the chairman of the board of a registrant that is an investment company is an “interested person” of the registrant, disclose whether the registrant has a lead independent director and what specific role the lead independent director plays in the leadership of the board. This disclosure should indicate why the registrant has determined that its leadership structure is appropriate given the specific characteristics or circumstances of the registrant. In addition, disclose the extent of the board's role in the risk oversight of the registrant, such as how the board administers its oversight function, and
the effect that this has on the board's leadership structure.
(i)
Employee, officer and director hedging.
In proxy or information statements with respect to the election of directors:
(1) Describe any practices or policies that the registrant has adopted regarding the ability of employees (including officers) or directors of the registrant, or any of their designees, to purchase financial instruments (including prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars, and exchange funds), or otherwise engage in transactions, that hedge or offset, or are designed to hedge or offset, any decrease in the market value of registrant equity securities—
(i) Granted to the employee or director by the registrant as part of the compensation of the employee or director; or
(ii) Held, directly or indirectly, by the employee or director.
(2) A description provided pursuant to paragraph (1) shall provide a fair and accurate summary of the practices or policies that apply, including the categories of persons covered, or disclose the practices or policies in full.
(3) A description provided pursuant to paragraph (1) shall also describe any categories of hedging transactions that are specifically permitted and any categories of such transactions specifically disallowed.
(4) If the registrant does not have any such practices or policies regarding hedging, the registrant shall disclose that fact or state that the transactions described in paragraph (1) above are generally permitted.
Instructions to Item 407(i).
1. For purposes of this Item 407(i), “registrant equity securities” means those equity securities as defined in section 3(a)(11) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(11)) and § 240.3a11-1 of this chapter) that are issued by the registrant or by any parent or subsidiary of the registrant or any subsidiary of any parent of the registrant.
2. The information required by this Item 407(i) will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
Instructions to Item 407.
1. For purposes of this Item:
a.
Listed issuer
means a listed issuer as defined in § 240.10A-3 of this chapter;
b.
National securities exchange
means a national securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a));
c.
Inter-dealer quotation system
means an automated inter-dealer quotation system of a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)); and
d.
National securities association
means a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(a)) that has been approved by the Commission (as that definition may be modified or supplemented).
2. With respect to paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (d)(1) and (e)(2) of this Item, disclose whether a current copy of the applicable committee charter is available to security holders on the registrant's Web site, and if so, provide the registrant's Web site address. If a current copy of the charter is not available to security holders on the registrant's Web site, include a copy of the charter in an appendix to the registrant's proxy or information statement that is provided to security holders at least once every three fiscal years, or if the charter has been materially amended since the beginning of the registrant's last fiscal year. If a current copy of the charter is not available to security holders on the registrant's Web site, and is not included as an appendix to the registrant's proxy or information statement, identify in which of the prior fiscal years the charter was so included in satisfaction of this requirement.
[71 FR 53254, Sept. 8, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 964, Jan. 4, 2008; 73 FR 57238, Oct. 2, 2008; 74 FR 68364, Dec. 23, 2009; 77 FR 38453, July 27, 2012; 84 FR 2425, Mar. 8, 2019; 84 FR 12717, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 229.408
(Item 408) Insider trading arrangements and policies.
(a)(1) Disclose whether, during the registrant's last fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report), any director or officer (as defined in § 240.16a-1(f) of this chapter) adopted or terminated:
(i) Any contract, instruction or written plan for the purchase or sale of securities of the registrant intended to satisfy the affirmative defense conditions of Rule 10b5-1(c) (§ 240.10b5-1(c) of this chapter) (a “Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement”); and/or
(ii) Any “non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement” as defined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Identify whether the trading arrangement is intended to satisfy the affirmative defense of Rule 10b5-1(c), and provide a description of the material terms, other than terms with respect to the price at which the individual executing the Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement or non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement is authorized to trade, such as:
(A) The name and title of the director or officer;
(B) The date on which the director or officer adopted or terminated the trading arrangement;
(C) The duration of the trading arrangement; and
(D) The aggregate number of securities to be purchased or sold pursuant to the trading arrangement.
(3) The disclosure provided pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section must be provided in an Interactive Data File as required by 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T) in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(b)(1) Disclose whether the registrant has adopted insider trading policies and procedures governing the purchase, sale, and/or other dispositions of the registrant's securities by directors, officers and employees, or the registrant itself, that are reasonably designed to promote compliance with insider trading laws, rules and regulations, and any listing standards applicable to the registrant. If the registrant has not adopted such policies and procedures, explain why it has not done so.
(2) If the registrant has adopted insider trading policies and procedures, the registrant must file such policies and procedures as an exhibit. If all of the registrant's insider trading policies and procedures are included in its code of ethics (as defined in 17 CFR 229.406(b)) and the code of ethics is filed as an exhibit pursuant to 17 CFR 229.406(c)(1), that would satisfy the exhibit requirement of this paragraph.
(3) The disclosure provided pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be provided in an Interactive Data File as required by 17 CFR 232.405 in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(c) For purposes of this Item 408, a director or officer (as defined in § 240.16a-1(f) of this chapter) (each a “covered person”) has entered into a
non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement
where:
(1) The covered person asserts that at a time when they were not aware of material nonpublic information about the security or the issuer of the security they had adopted a written arrangement for trading the securities; and
(2) The trading arrangement:
(i) Specified the amount of securities to be purchased or sold and the price at which and the date on which the securities were to be purchased or sold;
(ii) Included a written formula or algorithm, or computer program, for determining the amount of securities to be purchased or sold and the price at which and the date on which the securities were to be purchased or sold; or
(iii) Did not permit the covered person to exercise any subsequent influence over how, when, or whether to effect purchases or sales; provided, in addition, that any other person who, pursuant to the trading arrangement, did exercise such influence must not have been aware of material nonpublic information when doing so.
(d) [Reserved]
[87 FR 80428, Dec. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 36054, June 1, 2023; 89 FR 24373, Apr. 9, 2024]

# Subpart 229.500—Registration Statement and Prospectus Provisions
§ 229.501
(Item 501) Forepart of Registration Statement and Outside Front Cover Page of Prospectus.
The registrant must furnish the following information in plain English. See § 230.421(d) of Regulation C of this chapter.
(a)
Front cover page of the registration statement.
Where appropriate, include the delaying amendment legend from
§ 230.473 of Regulation C of this chapter.
(b)
Outside front cover page of the prospectus.
Limit the outside cover page to one page. If the following information applies to your offering, disclose it on the outside cover page of the prospectus.
(1)
Name.
The registrant's name. A foreign registrant must give the English translation of its name.
Instruction to paragraph 501(b)(1):
If your name is the same as that of a company that is well known, include information to eliminate any possible confusion with the other company. If your name indicates a line of business in which you are not engaged or in which you are engaged only to a limited extent, include information to eliminate any misleading inference as to your business.
(2)
Title and amount of securities.
The title and amount of securities offered. Separately state the amount of securities offered by selling security holders, if any. If the underwriter has any arrangement with the issuer, such as an over-allotment option, under which the underwriter may purchase additional shares in connection with the offering, indicate that this arrangement exists and state the amount of additional shares that the underwriter may purchase under the arrangement. Give a brief description of the securities except where the information is clear from the title of the security. For example, you are not required to describe common stock that has full voting, dividend and liquidation rights usually associated with common stock.
(3)
Offering price of the securities.
Where you offer securities for cash, the price to the public of the securities, the underwriter's discounts and commissions, the net proceeds you receive, and any selling shareholder's net proceeds. Show this information on both a per share or unit basis and for the total amount of the offering. If you make the offering on a minimum/maximum basis, show this information based on the total minimum and total maximum amount of the offering. You may present the information in a table, term sheet format, or other clear presentation. You may present the information in any format that fits the design of the cover page so long as the information can be easily read and is not misleading:
Instructions to paragraph 501(b)(3):
1. If a preliminary prospectus is circulated and you are not subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, provide, as applicable:
(A) A bona fide estimate of the range of the maximum offering price and the maximum number of securities offered; or
(B) A bona fide estimate of the principal amount of the debt securities offered.
2. If it is impracticable to state the price to the public, explain the method by which the price is to be determined. Instead of explaining the method on the outside front cover page of the prospectus, you may state that the offering price will be determined by a particular method or formula that is described in the prospectus and include a cross-reference to the location of such disclosure in the prospectus, including the page number. Highlight the cross-reference by prominent type or in another manner. If the securities are to be offered at the market price, or if the offering price is to be determined by a formula related to the market price, indicate the market and market price of the securities as of the latest practicable date.
3. If you file a registration statement on Form S-8, you are not required to comply with this paragraph (b)(3).
(4)
Market for the securities.
The national securities exchange(s) where the securities being offered are listed. If the securities being offered are not listed on a national securities exchange, the principal United States market(s) where the registrant, through the engagement of a registered broker-dealer, has actively sought and achieved quotation. In each case, also disclose the corresponding trading symbol(s) for the securities on such market(s).
(5)
Risk factors.
A cross-reference to the risk factors section, including the page number where it appears in the prospectus. Highlight this cross-reference by prominent type or in another manner;
(6)
State legend.
Any legend or statement required by the law of any state in which the securities are to be offered. You may combine this with any legend required by the SEC, if appropriate;
(7)
Commission legend.
A legend that indicates that neither the Securities and Exchange Commission nor any state securities commission has approved or disapproved of the securities or passed upon the accuracy or adequacy of the disclosures in the prospectus and that any contrary representation is a criminal offense. You may use one of the following or other clear, plain language:

# Example A:
Neither the Securities and Exchange Commission nor any state securities commission has approved or disapproved of
these securities or passed upon the adequacy or accuracy of this prospectus. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.

# Example B:
Neither the Securities and Exchange Commission nor any state securities commission has approved or disapproved of these securities or determined if this prospectus is truthful or complete. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.
(8)
Underwriting.
(i) Name(s) of the lead or managing underwriter(s) and an identification of the nature of the underwriting arrangements;
(ii) If the offering is not made on a firm commitment basis, a brief description of the underwriting arrangements. You may use any clear, concise, and accurate description of the underwriting arrangements. You may use the following descriptions of underwriting arrangements where appropriate:

# Example A: Best efforts offering.
The underwriters are not required to sell any specific number or dollar amount of securities but will use their best efforts to sell the securities offered.

# Example B: Best efforts, minimum-maximum offering.
The underwriters must sell the minimum number of securities offered (
insert number
) if any are sold. The underwriters are required to use only their best efforts to sell the maximum number of securities offered (
insert number
).
(iii) If you offer the securities on a best efforts or best efforts minimum/maximum basis, the date the offering will end, any minimum purchase requirements, and any arrangements to place the funds in an escrow, trust, or similar account. If you have not made any of these arrangements, state this fact and describe the effect on investors;
(9)
Date of prospectus.
The date of the prospectus;
(10)
Prospectus “Subject to Completion” legend.
(i) If you use the prospectus before the effective date of the registration statement or if you use Rule 430A [§ 230.430A of this chapter] to omit pricing information and the prospectus is used before you determine the public offering price, include a prominent statement that:
(A) The information in the prospectus will be amended or completed;
(B) A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(C) The securities may not be sold until the registration statement becomes effective; and
(D) The prospectus is not an offer to sell the securities, and it is not soliciting an offer to buy the securities, in any state where offers or sales are not permitted.
(ii) The legend called for by paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this Item may be in the following or other clear, plain language:
The information in this prospectus is not complete and may be changed. We may not sell these securities until the registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is effective. This prospectus is not an offer to sell these securities and it is not soliciting an offer to buy these securities in any state where the offer or sale is not permitted.
(iii) Registrants may exclude the statement in paragraph (b)(10)(i)(D) of this Item if the offering is not prohibited by state law.
Instruction to Item 501:
For asset-backed securities, see also Item 1102 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1102).
[63 FR 6381, Feb. 6, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 1594, Jan. 7, 2005; 84 FR 12718, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 229.502
(Item 502) Inside front and outside back cover pages of prospectus.
The registrant must furnish this information in plain English. See § 230.421(d) of Regulation C of this chapter.
(a)
Table of contents.
On either the inside front or outside back cover page of the prospectus, provide a reasonably detailed table of contents. It must show the page number of the various sections or subdivisions of the prospectus. Include a specific listing of the risk factors section required by Item 105 of this Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.105). You must include the table of contents immediately following the cover page in any prospectus you deliver electronically.
(b)
Dealer prospectus delivery obligation.
On the outside back cover page of the prospectus, advise dealers of their prospectus delivery obligation, including the expiration date specified by
Section 4(3) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(3)) and § 230.174 of this chapter. If you do not know the expiration date on the effective date of the registration statement, include the expiration date in the copy of the prospectus you file under § 230.424(b) of this chapter. You do not have to include this information if dealers are not required to deliver a prospectus under § 230.174 of this chapter or Section 24(d) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24). You may use the following or other clear, plain language:

# Dealer Prospectus Delivery Obligation
Until (
insert date
), all dealers that effect transactions in these securities, whether or not participating in this offering, may be required to deliver a prospectus. This is in addition to the dealers' obligation to deliver a prospectus when acting as underwriters and with respect to their unsold allotments or subscriptions.
[63 FR 6383, Feb. 6, 1998, as amended at 84 FR 12718, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 229.503
(Item 503) Prospectus summary.
The registrant must furnish this information in plain English. See § 230.421(d) of Regulation C of this chapter.
(a)
Prospectus summary.
Provide a summary of the information in the prospectus where the length or complexity of the prospectus makes a summary useful. The summary should be brief. The summary should not contain, and is not required to contain, all of the detailed information in the prospectus. If you provide summary business or financial information, even if you do not caption it as a summary, you still must provide that information in plain English.
Instruction to paragraph 503(a):
The summary should not merely repeat the text of the prospectus but should provide a brief overview of the key aspects of the offering. Carefully consider and identify those aspects of the offering that are the most significant and determine how best to highlight those points in clear, plain language.
(b)
Address and telephone number.
Include, either on the cover page or in the summary section of the prospectus, the complete mailing address and telephone number of your principal executive offices.
(c) [Reserved]
[63 FR 6383, Feb. 6, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 1594, Jan. 7, 2005; 73 FR 964, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 18617, Apr. 23, 2009; 76 FR 50121, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50211 Oct. 4, 2018; 84 FR 12718, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 229.504
(Item 504) Use of proceeds.
State the principal purposes for which the net proceeds to the registrant from the securities to be offered are intended to be used and the approximate amount intended to be used for each such purpose. Where registrant has no current specific plan for the proceeds, or a significant portion thereof, the registrant shall so state and discuss the principal reasons for the offering.
Instructions to Item 504:
1. Where less than all the securities to be offered may be sold and more than one use is listed for the proceeds, indicate the order of priority of such purposes and discuss the registrant's plans if substantially less than the maximum proceeds are obtained. Such discussion need not be included if underwriting arrangements with respect to such securities are such that, if any securities are sold to the public, it reasonably can be expected that the actual proceeds will not be substantially less than the aggregate proceeds to the registrant shown pursuant to Item 501 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.501).
2. Details of proposed expenditures need not be given; for example, there need be furnished only a brief outline of any program of construction or addition of equipment. Consideration should be given as to the need to include a discussion of certain matters addressed in the discussion and analysis of registrant's financial condition and results of operations, such as liquidity and capital expenditures.
3. If any material amounts of other funds are necessary to accomplish the specified purposes for which the proceeds are to be obtained, state the amounts of such other funds needed for each such specified purpose and the sources thereof.
4. If any material part of the proceeds is to be used to discharge indebtedness, set forth the interest rate and maturity of such indebtedness. If the indebtedness to be discharged was incurred within one year, describe the use of the proceeds of such indebtedness other than short-term borrowings used for working capital.
5. If any material amount of the proceeds is to be used to acquire assets, otherwise
than in the ordinary course of business, describe briefly and state the cost of the assets and, where such assets are to be acquired from affiliates of the registrant or their associates, give the names of the persons from whom they are to be acquired and set forth the principle followed in determining the cost to the registrant.
6. Where the registrant indicates that the proceeds may, or will, be used to finance acquisitions of other businesses, the identity of such businesses, if known, or, if not known, the nature of the businesses to be sought, the status of any negotiations with respect to the acquisition, and a brief description of such business shall be included. Where, however, pro forma financial statements reflecting such acquisition are not required by §§ 210.1-01 through 210.13-02 (Regulation S-X) of this chapter, including § 210.8-05 (Rule 8-05 of Regulation S-X) of this chapter for smaller reporting companies, to be included in the registration statement, the possible terms of any transaction, the identification of the parties thereto or the nature of the business sought need not be disclosed, to the extent that the registrant reasonably determines that public disclosure of such information would jeopardize the acquisition. Where Regulation S-X, including § 210.8-04 (Rule 8-04 of Regulation S-X) of this chapter for smaller reporting companies, as applicable, would require financial statements of the business to be acquired to be included, the description of the business to be acquired shall be more detailed.
7. The registrant may reserve the right to change the use of proceeds, provided that such reservation is due to certain contingencies that are discussed specifically and the alternatives to such use in that event are indicated.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 73 FR 964, Jan. 4, 2008; 83 FR 50211, Oct. 4, 2018; 85 FR 22002, Apr. 20, 2020]
§ 229.505
(Item 505) Determination of offering price.
(a)
Common equity.
Where common equity is being registered for which there is no established public trading market for purposes of paragraph (a) of Item 201 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201(a)) or where there is a material disparity between the offering price of the common equity being registered and the market price of outstanding shares of the same class, describe the various factors considered in determining such offering price.
(b)
Warrants, rights and convertible securities.
Where warrants, rights or convertible securities exercisable for common equity for which there is no established public trading market for purposes of paragraph (a) of Item 201 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201(a)) are being registered, describe the various factors considered in determining their exercise or conversion price.
§ 229.506
(Item 506) Dilution.
Where common equity securities are being registered and there is substantial disparity between the public offering price and the effective cash cost to officers, directors, promoters and affiliated persons of common equity acquired by them in transactions during the past five years, or which they have the right to acquire, and the registrant is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act immediately prior to filing of the registration statement, there shall be included a comparison of the public contribution under the proposed public offering and the effective cash contribution of such persons. In such cases, and in other instances where common equity securities are being registered by a registrant that has had losses in each of its last three fiscal years and there is a material dilution of the purchasers' equity interest, the following shall be disclosed:
(a) The net tangible book value per share before and after the distribution;
(b) The amount of the increase in such net tangible book value per share attributable to the cash payments made by purchasers of the shares being offered; and
(c) The amount of the immediate dilution from the public offering price which will be absorbed by such purchasers.
§ 229.507
(Item 507) Selling security holders.
If any of the securities to be registered are to be offered for the account of security holders, name each such security holder, indicate the nature of any position, office, or other material relationship which the selling security holder has had within the past three years with the registrant or any of its predecessors or affiliates, and state the amount of securities of the class owned by such security holder prior to the offering, the amount to be offered for the security holder's account, the amount
and (if one percent or more) the percentage of the class to be owned by such security holder after completion of the offering.
§ 229.508
(Item 508) Plan of distribution.
(a)
Underwriters and underwriting obligation.
If the securities are to be offered through underwriters, name the principal underwriters, and state the respective amounts underwritten. Identify each such underwriter having a material relationship with the registrant and state the nature of the relationship. State briefly the nature of the obligation of the underwriter(s) to take the securities.
Instruction to paragraph 508(a):
All that is required as to the nature of the underwriters' obligation is whether the underwriters are or will be committed to take and to pay for all of the securities if any are taken, or whether it is merely an agency or the type of
best efforts
arrangement under which the underwriters are required to take and to pay for only such securities as they may sell to the public. Conditions precedent to the underwriters' taking the securities, including
market-outs,
need not be described except in the case of an agency or
best efforts
arrangement.
(b)
New underwriters.
Where securities being registered are those of a registrant that has not previously been required to file reports pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, or where a prospectus is required to include reference on its cover page to material risks pursuant to Item 501 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.501), and any one or more of the managing underwriter(s) (or where there are no managing underwriters, a majority of the principal underwriters) has been organized, reactivated, or first registered as a broker-dealer within the past three years, these facts concerning such underwriter(s) shall be disclosed in the prospectus together with, where applicable, the disclosures that the principal business function of such underwriter(s) will be to sell the securities to be registered, or that the promoters of the registrant have a material relationship with such underwriter(s). Sufficient details shall be given to allow full appreciation of such underwriter(s) experience and its relationship with the registrant, promoters and their controlling persons.
(c)
Other distributions.
Outline briefly the plan of distribution of any securities to be registered that are to be offered otherwise than through underwriters.
(1) If any securities are to be offered pursuant to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan the terms of which provide for the purchase of some securities on the market, state whether the registrant or the participant pays fees, commissions, and expenses incurred in connection with the plan. If the participant will pay such fees, commissions and expenses, state the anticipated cost to participants by transaction or other convenient reference.
(2) If the securities are to be offered through the selling efforts of brokers or dealers, describe the plan of distribution and the terms of any agreement, arrangement, or understanding entered into with broker(s) or dealer(s) prior to the effective date of the registration statement, including volume limitations on sales, parties to the agreement and the conditions under which the agreement may be terminated. If known, identify the broker(s) or dealer(s) which will participate in the offering and state the amount to be offered through each.
(3) If any of the securities being registered are to be offered otherwise than for cash, state briefly the general purposes of the distribution, the basis upon which the securities are to be offered, the amount of compensation and other expenses of distribution, and by whom they are to be borne. If the distribution is to be made pursuant to a plan of acquisition, reorganization, readjustment or succession, describe briefly the general effect of the plan and state when it became or is to become operative. As to any material amount of assets to be acquired under the plan, furnish information corresponding to that required by Instruction 5 of Item 504 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.504).
(d)
Offerings on exchange.
If the securities are to be offered on an exchange, indicate the exchange. If the registered securities are to be offered in connection with the writing of exchange-traded call options, describe briefly such transactions.
(e)
Underwriter's compensation.
Provide a table that sets out the nature of the compensation and the amount of discounts and commissions to be paid to the underwriter for each security and in total. The table must show the separate amounts to be paid by the company and the selling shareholders. In addition, include in the table all other items considered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) to be underwriting compensation for purposes of FINRA rules.
Instructions to paragraph 508(e):
1. The term “commissions” is defined in paragraph (17) of Schedule A of the Securities Act. Show separately in the table the cash commissions paid by the registrant and selling security holders. Also show in the table commissions paid by other persons. Disclose any finder's fee or similar payments in the table.
2. Disclose the offering expenses specified in Item 511 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.511).
3. If the underwriter has any arrangement with the issuer, such as an over-allotment option, under which the underwriter may purchase additional shares in connection with the offering, indicate that this arrangement exists and state the amount of additional shares that the underwriter may purchase under the arrangement. Where the underwriter has such an arrangement, present maximum-minimum information in a separate column to the table, based on the purchase of all or none of the shares subject to the arrangement. Describe the key terms of the arrangement in the narrative.
(f)
Underwriter's representative on board of directors.
Describe any arrangement whereby the underwriter has the right to designate or nominate a member or members of the board of directors of the registrant. The registrant shall disclose the identity of any director so designated or nominated, and indicate whether or not a person so designated or nominated, or allowed to be designated or nominated by the underwriter is or may be a director, officer, partner, employee or affiliate of the underwriter.
(g)
Indemnification of underwriters.
If the underwriting agreement provides for indemnification by the registrant of the underwriters or their controlling persons against any liability arising under the Securities Act, furnish a brief description of such indemnification provisions.
(h)
Dealers' compensation.
State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers, including all cash, securities, contracts or other considerations to be received by any dealer in connection with the sale of the securities. If any dealers are to act in the capacity of sub-underwriters and are to be allowed or paid any additional discounts or commissions for acting in such capacity, a general statement to that effect will suffice without giving the additional amounts to be sold.
(i)
Finders.
Identify any finder and, if applicable, describe the nature of any material relationship between such finder and the registrant, its officers, directors, principal stockholders, finders or promoters or the principal underwriter(s), or if there is a managing underwriter(s), the managing underwriter(s), (including, in each case, affiliates or associates thereof).
(j)
Discretionary accounts.
If the registrant was not, immediately prior to the filing of the registration statement, subject to the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, identify any principal underwriter that intends to sell to any accounts over which it exercises discretionary authority and include an estimate of the amount of securities so intended to be sold. The response to this paragraph shall be contained in a pre-effective amendment which shall be circulated if the information is not available when the registration statement is filed.
(k)
Passive market making.
If the underwriters or any selling group members intend to engage in passive market making transactions as permitted by Rule 103 of Regulation M (§ 242.103 of this chapter), indicate such intention and briefly describe passive market making.
(l)
Stabilization and other transactions.
(1) Briefly describe any transaction that the underwriter intends to conduct during the offering that stabilizes, maintains, or otherwise affects the market price of the offered securities. Include information on stabilizing transactions, syndicate short covering transactions, penalty bids, or any
other transaction that affects the offered security's price. Describe the nature of the transactions clearly and explain how the transactions affect the offered security's price. Identify the exchange or other market on which these transactions may occur. If true, disclose that the underwriter may discontinue these transactions at any time;
(2) If the stabilizing began before the effective date of the registration statement, disclose the amount of securities bought, the prices at which they were bought and the period within which they were bought. If you use § 230.430A of this chapter, the prospectus you file under § 230.424(b) of this chapter or include in a post-effective amendment must contain information on the stabilizing transactions that took place before the determination of the public offering price; and
(3) If you are making a warrants or rights offering of securities to existing security holders and any securities not purchased by existing security holders are to be reoffered to the public, disclose in a supplement to the prospectus or in the prospectus used in connection with the reoffering:
(i) The amount of securities bought in stabilization activities during the offering period and the price or range of prices at which the securities were bought;
(ii) The amount of the offered securities subscribed for during the offering period;
(iii) The amount of the offered securities subscribed for by the underwriter during the offering period;
(iv) The amount of the offered securities sold during the offering period by the underwriter and the price or price ranges at which the securities were sold; and
(v) The amount of the offered securities that will be reoffered to the public and the public offering price.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 19606, Apr. 15, 1993; 62 FR 543, Jan. 3, 1997; 62 FR 11323, Mar. 12, 1997; 63 FR 6384, Feb. 6, 1998; 83 FR 50211, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 229.509
(Item 509) Interests of named experts and counsel.
If (a) any expert named in the registration statement as having prepared or certified any part thereof (or is named as having prepared or certified a report or valuation for use in connection with the registration statement), or (b) counsel for the registrant, underwriters or selling security holders named in the prospectus as having given an opinion upon the validity of the securities being registered or upon other legal matters in connection with the registration or offering of such securities, was employed for such purpose on a contingent basis, or at the time of such preparation, certification or opinion or at any time thereafter, through the date of effectiveness of the registration statement or that part of the registration statement to which such preparation, certification or opinion relates, had, or is to receive in connection with the offering, a substantial interest, direct or indirect, in the registrant or any of its parents or subsidiaries or was connected with the registrant or any of its parents or subsidiaries as a promoter, managing underwriter (or any principal underwriter, if there are no managing underwriters) voting trustee, director, officer, or employee, furnish a brief statement of the nature of such contingent basis, interest, or connection.
Instructions to Item 509:
1. The interest of an expert (other than an accountant) or counsel will not be deemed substantial and need not be disclosed if the interest, including the fair market value of all securities of the registrant owned, received and to be received, or subject to options, warrants or rights received or to be received by the expert or counsel does not exceed $50,000. For the purpose of this Instruction, the term
expert
or counsel includes the firm, corporation, partnership or other entity, if any, by which such expert or counsel is employed or of which he is a member or of counsel to and all attorneys in the case of counsel, and all nonclerical personnel in the case of named experts, participating in such matter on behalf of such firm, corporation, partnership or entity.
2. Accountants, providing a report on the financial statements, presented or incorporated by reference in the registration statement, should note § 210.2-01 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210) for the Commission's requirements regarding “Qualification of Accountants” which discusses disqualifying interests.
§ 229.510
(Item 510) Disclosure of Commission position on indemnification for Securities Act liabilities.
In addition to the disclosure prescribed by Item 702 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.702), if the undertaking required by paragraph (h) of Item 512 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512) is not required to be included in the registration statement because acceleration of the effective date of the registration statement is not being requested, and if waivers have not been obtained comparable to those specified in paragraph (h), a brief description of the indemnification provisions relating to directors, officers and controlling persons of the registrant against liability arising under the Securities Act (including any provision of the underwriting agreement which relates to indemnification of the underwriter or its controlling persons by the registrant against such liabilities where a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant is such an underwriter or controlling person thereof or a member of any firm which is such an underwriter) shall be included in the prospectus, together with a statement in substantially the following form:
Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers or persons controlling the registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, the registrant has been informed that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Act and is therefore unenforceable.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 48103, Sept. 24, 1991]
§ 229.511
(Item 511) Other expenses of issuance and distribution.
Furnish a reasonably itemized statement of all expenses in connection with the issuance and distribution of the securities to be registered, other than underwriting discounts and commissions. If any of the securities to be registered are to be offered for the account of security holders, indicate the portion of such expenses to be borne by such security holder.
Instruction to Item 511:
Insofar as practicable, registration fees, Federal taxes, States taxes and fees, trustees' and transfer agents' fees, costs of printing and engraving, and legal, accounting, and engineering fees shall be itemized separately. Include as a separate item any premium paid by the registrant or any selling security holder on any policy obtained in connection with the offering and sale of the securities being registered which insures or indemnifies directors or officers against any liabilities they may incur in connection with the registration, offering, or sale of such securities. The information may be given as subject to future contingencies. If the amounts of any items are not known, estimates, identified as such, shall be given.
§ 229.512
(Item 512) Undertakings.
Include each of the following undertakings that is applicable to the offering being registered.
(a)
Rule 415 Offering.
1
Include the following if the securities are registered pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (§ 230.415 of this chapter):
1
Paragraph (a) reflects proposals made in Securities Act Release No. 6334 (Aug. 6, 1981).
The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes:
(1) To file, during any period in which offers or sales are being made, a post-effective amendment to this registration statement:
(i) To include any prospectus required by section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933;
(ii) To reflect in the prospectus any facts or events arising after the effective date of the registration statement (or the most recent post-effective amendment thereof) which, individually or in the aggregate, represent a fundamental change in the information set forth in the registration statement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any increase or decrease in volume of securities offered (if the total dollar value of securities offered would not exceed that which was registered) and any deviation from the low or high end of the estimated maximum offering range may be reflected in the form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) (§ 230.424(b) of this chapter) if, in the aggregate, the changes in volume and price represent no more than 20% change in the maximum aggregate offering price set forth in the “Calculation of Filing Fee Tables” or “Calculation of Registration Fee” table, as applicable, in the effective registration statement.
(iii) To include any material information with respect to the plan of distribution not previously disclosed in the registration statement or any material change to such information in the registration statement;
Provided, however,
That:
(A) Paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section do not apply if the registration statement is on Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter), and the information required to be included in a post-effective amendment by those paragraphs is contained in reports filed with or furnished to the Commission by the registrant pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) that are incorporated by reference in the registration statement; and
(B) Paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section do not apply if the registration statement is on Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter), Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter), Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter) or Form F-3 (§ 239.33 of this chapter) and the information required to be included in a post-effective amendment by those paragraphs is contained in reports filed with or furnished to the Commission by the registrant pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) that are incorporated by reference in the registration statement, or, as to a registration statement on Form S-3, Form SF-3 or Form F-3, is contained in a form of prospectus filed pursuant to § 230.424(b) of this chapter that is part of the registration statement.
(C)
Provided further, however
, that paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) do not apply if the registration statement is for an offering of asset-backed securities on Form SF-1 (§ 239.44 of this chapter) or Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter), and the information required to be included in a post-effective amendment is provided pursuant to Item 1100(c) of Regulation AB (§ 229.1100(c)).
(2) That, for the purpose of determining any liability under the Securities Act of 1933, each such post-effective amendment shall be deemed to be a new registration statement relating to the securities offered therein, and the offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial bona fide offering thereof.
(3) To remove from registration by means of a post-effective amendment any of the securities being registered which remain unsold at the termination of the offering.
(4) If the registrant is a foreign private issuer, to file a post-effective amendment to the registration statement to include any financial statements required by Item 8.A of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter) at the start of any delayed offering or throughout a continuous offering. Financial statements and information otherwise required by Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3)) need not be furnished,
provided
that the registrant includes in the prospectus, by means of a post-effective amendment, financial statements required pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4) and other information necessary to ensure that all other information in the prospectus is at least as current as the date of those financial statements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to registration statements on Form F-3 (§ 239.33 of this chapter), a post-effective amendment need not be filed to include financial statements and information required by Section 10(a)(3) of the Act or Item 8.A of Form 20-F if such financial statements and information are contained in periodic reports filed with or furnished to the Commission by the registrant pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are incorporated by reference in the Form F-3.
(5) That, for the purpose of determining liability under the Securities Act of 1933 to any purchaser:
(i) If the registrant is relying on Rule 430B (§ 230.430B of this chapter):
(A) Each prospectus filed by the registrant pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) (§ 230.424(b)(3) of this chapter) shall be deemed to be part of the registration statement as of the date the filed prospectus was deemed part of and included in the registration statement; and
(B) Each prospectus required to be filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2), (b)(5), or (b)(7) (§ 230.424(b)(2), (b)(5), or (b)(7)
of this chapter) as part of a registration statement in reliance on Rule 430B relating to an offering made pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(i), (vii), or (x) (§ 230.415(a)(1)(i), (vii), or (x) of this chapter) for the purpose of providing the information required by section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 shall be deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement as of the earlier of the date such form of prospectus is first used after effectiveness or the date of the first contract of sale of securities in the offering described in the prospectus. As provided in Rule 430B, for liability purposes of the issuer and any person that is at that date an underwriter, such date shall be deemed to be a new effective date of the registration statement relating to the securities in the registration statement to which that prospectus relates, and the offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial
bona fide
offering thereof.
Provided, however,
that no statement made in a registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement or made in a document incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement will, as to a purchaser with a time of contract of sale prior to such effective date, supersede or modify any statement that was made in the registration statement or prospectus that was part of the registration statement or made in any such document immediately prior to such effective date; or
(ii) If the registrant is subject to Rule 430C (§ 230.430C of this chapter), each prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) as part of a registration statement relating to an offering, other than registration statements relying on Rule 430B or other than prospectuses filed in reliance on Rule 430A (§ 230.430A of this chapter), shall be deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement as of the date it is first used after effectiveness.
Provided, however,
that no statement made in a registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement or made in a document incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement will, as to a purchaser with a time of contract of sale prior to such first use, supersede or modify any statement that was made in the registration statement or prospectus that was part of the registration statement or made in any such document immediately prior to such date of first use.
(iii) If the registrant is relying on § 230.430D of this chapter:
(A) Each prospectus filed by the registrant pursuant to § 230.424(b)(3) and (h) of this chapter shall be deemed to be part of the registration statement as of the date the filed prospectus was deemed part of and included in the registration statement; and
(B) Each prospectus required to be filed pursuant to § 230.424(b)(2), (b)(5), or (b)(7) of this chapter as part of a registration statement in reliance on § 230.430D of this chapter relating to an offering made pursuant to § 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or (a)(1)(xii) of this chapter for the purpose of providing the information required by section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)) shall be deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement as of the earlier of the date such form of prospectus is first used after effectiveness or the date of the first contract of sale of securities in the offering described in the prospectus. As provided in § 230.430D of this chapter, for liability purposes of the issuer and any person that is at that date an underwriter, such date shall be deemed to be a new effective date of the registration statement relating to the securities in the registration statement to which that prospectus relates, and the offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial
bona fide
offering thereof.
Provided, however,
that no statement made in a registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement or made in a document incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement will, as to a purchaser with a time of contract of sale prior to such effective date, supersede or modify any statement that was made in the registration statement or
prospectus that was part of the registration statement or made in any such document immediately prior to such effective date; or
(6) That, for the purpose of determining liability of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 to any purchaser in the initial distribution of the securities:
The undersigned registrant undertakes that in a primary offering of securities of the undersigned registrant pursuant to this registration statement, regardless of the underwriting method used to sell the securities to the purchaser, if the securities are offered or sold to such purchaser by means of any of the following communications, the undersigned registrant will be a seller to the purchaser and will be considered to offer or sell such securities to such purchaser:
(i) Any preliminary prospectus or prospectus of the undersigned registrant relating to the offering required to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (§ 230.424 of this chapter);
(ii) Any free writing prospectus relating to the offering prepared by or on behalf of the undersigned registrant or used or referred to by the undersigned registrant;
(iii) The portion of any other free writing prospectus relating to the offering containing material information about the undersigned registrant or its securities provided by or on behalf of the undersigned registrant; and
(iv) Any other communication that is an offer in the offering made by the undersigned registrant to the purchaser.
(7) If the registrant is relying on § 230.430D of this chapter, with respect to any offering of securities registered on Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter), to file the information previously omitted from the prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in accordance with §§ 230.424(h) and 230.430D of this chapter.
(b)
Filings incorporating subsequent Exchange Act documents by reference.
Include the following if the registration statement incorporates by reference any Exchange Act document filed subsequent to the effective date of the registration statement:
The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes that, for purposes of determining any liability under the Securities Act of 1933, each filing of the registrant's annual report pursuant to section 13(a) or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (and, where applicable, each filing of an employee benefit plan's annual report pursuant to section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that is incorporated by reference in the registration statement shall be deemed to be a new registration statement relating to the securities offered therein, and the offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial bona fide offering thereof.
(c)-(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Registration on Form S-4 or F-4 of securities offered for resale.
Include the following if the securities are being registered on Form S-4 or F-4 (§ 239.25, or 34 of this chapter) in connection with a transaction specified in paragraph (a) of Rule 145 (§ 230.145 of this chapter).
(1) The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes as follows: That prior to any public reoffering of the securities registered hereunder through use of a prospectus which is a part of this registration statement, by any person or party who is deemed to be an underwriter within the meaning of Rule 145(c), the issuer undertakes that such reoffering prospectus will contain the information called for by the applicable registration form with respect to reofferings by persons who may be deemed underwriters, in addition to the information called for by the other Items of the applicable form.
(2) The registrant undertakes that every prospectus (i) that is filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(1) immediately preceding, or (ii) that purports to meet the requirements of section 10(a)(3) of the Act and is used in connection with an offering of securities subject to Rule 415 (§ 230.415 of this chapter), will be filed as a part of an amendment to the registration statement and will not be used until such amendment is effective, and that, for purposes of determining any liability under the Securities Act of 1933, each such post-effective amendment shall be deemed to be a new registration statement relating to the securities offered therein, and the offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial bona fide offering thereof.
(h)
Request for acceleration of effective date or filing of registration statement becoming effective upon filing.
Include the following if acceleration is requested of the effective date of the registration statement pursuant to Rule 461 under the Securities Act (§ 230.461 of this chapter), if a Form S-3 or Form F-3
will become effective upon filing with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462 (e) or (f) under the Securities Act (§ 230.462 (e) or (f) of this chapter), or if the registration statement is filed on Form S-8, and:
(1) Any provision or arrangement exists whereby the registrant may indemnify a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant against liabilities arising under the Securities Act, or
(2) The underwriting agreement contains a provision whereby the registrant indemnifies the underwriter or controlling persons of the underwriter against such liabilities and a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant is such an underwriter or controlling person thereof or a member of any firm which is such an underwriter, and
(3) The benefits of such indemnification are not waived by such persons:
Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the registrant has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Act and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in connection with the securities being registered, the registrant will, unless in the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will be governed by the final adjudication of such issue.
(i) Include the following in a registration statement permitted by Rule 430A under the Securities Act of 1933 (§ 230.430A of this chapter):
The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes that:
(1) For purposes of determining any liability under the Securities Act of 1933, the information omitted from the form of prospectus filed as part of this registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A and contained in a form of prospectus filed by the registrant pursuant to Rule 424(b) (1) or (4) or 497(h) under the Securities Act shall be deemed to be part of this registration statement as of the time it was declared effective.
(2) For the purpose of determining any liability under the Securities Act of 1933, each post-effective amendment that contains a form of prospectus shall be deemed to be a new registration statement relating to the securities offered therein, and the offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial bona fide offering thereof.
(j)
Qualification of trust indentures under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 for delayed offerings.
Include the following if the registrant intends to rely on section 305(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 for determining the eligibility of the trustee under indentures for securities to be issued, offered, or sold on a delayed basis by or on behalf of the registrant:
The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes to file an application for the purpose of determining the eligibility of the trustee to act under subsection (a) of section 310 of the Trust Indenture Act (“Act”) in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission under section 305(b)(2) of the Act.
(k)
Filings regarding asset-backed securities incorporating by reference subsequent Exchange Act documents by third parties.
Include the following if the registration statement incorporates by reference any Exchange Act document filed subsequent to the effective date of the registration statement pursuant to Item 1100(c) of Regulation AB (§ 229.1100(c)):
The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes that, for purposes of determining any liability under the Securities Act of 1933, each filing of the annual report pursuant to section 13(a) or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of a third party that is incorporated by reference in the registration statement in accordance with Item 1100(c)(1) of Regulation AB (17 CFR 229.1100(c)(1)) shall be deemed to be a new registration statement relating to the securities offered therein, and the offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial bona fide offering thereof.
[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 229.512, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart 229.600—Exhibits
§ 229.601
(Item 601) Exhibits.
(a)
Exhibits and index required.
(1) Subject to Rule 411(c) (§ 230.411(c) of this chapter) under the Securities Act and Rule 12b-23(c) (§ 240.12b-23(c) of this chapter) under the Exchange Act regarding incorporation of exhibits by reference, the exhibits required in the exhibit table must be filed as indicated, as part of the registration statement or report.
(2) Each registration statement or report shall contain an exhibit index, which must appear before the required signatures in the registration statement or report. For convenient reference, each exhibit shall be listed in the exhibit index according to the number assigned to it in the exhibit table. If an exhibit is incorporated by reference, this must be noted in the exhibit index. Each exhibit identified in the exhibit index (other than an exhibit filed in eXtensible Business Reporting Language or an exhibit that is filed with Form ABS-EE) must include an active link to an exhibit that is filed with the registration statement or report or, if the exhibit is incorporated by reference, an active hyperlink to the exhibit separately filed on EDGAR. If a registration statement or report is amended, each amendment must include hyperlinks to the exhibits required with the amendment. For a description of each of the exhibits included in the exhibit table, see paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) This Item applies only to the forms specified in the exhibit table. With regard to forms not listed in that table, reference shall be made to the appropriate form for the specific exhibit filing requirements applicable thereto.
(4) If a material contract or plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession is executed or becomes effective during the reporting period reflected by a Form 10-Q or Form 10-K, it shall be filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q or Form 10-K filed for the corresponding period. Any amendment or modification to a previously filed exhibit to a Form 10, 10-K or 10-Q document shall be filed as an exhibit to a Form 10-Q and Form 10-K. Such amendment or modification need not be filed where such previously filed exhibit would not be currently required.
(5) Schedules (or similar attachments) to the exhibits required by this Item are not required to be filed provided that they do not contain information material to an investment or voting decision and that information is not otherwise disclosed in the exhibit or the disclosure document. Each exhibit filed must contain a list briefly identifying the contents of all omitted schedules. Registrants need not prepare a separate list of omitted information if such information is already included within the exhibit in a manner that conveys the subject matter of the omitted schedules and attachments. In addition, the registrant must provide a copy of any omitted schedule to the Commission or its staff upon request.
(6) The registrant may redact information from exhibits required to be filed by this Item if disclosure of such information would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy (
e.g.,
disclosure of bank account numbers, social security numbers, home addresses, and similar information).
Instructions to Item 601:
1. If an exhibit to a registration statement (other than an opinion or consent), filed in preliminary form, has been changed only (A) to insert information as to interest, dividend or conversion rates, redemption or conversion prices, purchase or offering prices, underwriters' or dealers' commissions, names, addresses or participation of underwriters or similar matters, which information appears elsewhere in an amendment to the registration statement or a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (§ 230.424(b) of this chapter), or (B) to correct typographical errors, insert signatures or make other similar immaterial changes, then, notwithstanding any contrary requirement of any rule or form, the registrant need not refile such exhibit as so amended. Any such incomplete exhibit may not, however, be incorporated by reference in any subsequent filing under any Act administered by the Commission.
2. In any case where two or more indentures, contracts, franchises, or other documents required to be filed as exhibits are substantially identical in all material respects except as to the parties thereto, the dates of execution, or other details, the registrant need file a copy of only one of such documents, with a schedule identifying the
other documents omitted and setting forth the material details in which such documents differ from the document a copy of which is filed. The Commission may at any time in its discretion require filing of copies of any documents so omitted.
3. Only copies, rather than originals, need be filed of each exhibit required except as otherwise specifically noted.
4.
Electronic filings.
Whenever an exhibit is filed in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption (§§ 232.201 and 232.202 of this chapter), the letter “P” (paper) shall be placed next to the exhibit in the list of exhibits required by Item 601(a)(2) of this Rule. Whenever an electronic confirming copy of an exhibit is filed pursuant to a hardship exemption (§ 232.201 or § 232.202(d) of this chapter), the exhibit index should specify where the confirming electronic copy can be located; in addition, the designation “CE” (confirming electronic) should be placed next to the listed exhibit in the exhibit index.

# Exhibit Table

# Instructions to the Exhibit Table.
1. The exhibit table indicates those documents that must be filed as exhibits to the respective forms listed.
2. The “X” designation indicates the documents which are required to be filed with each form even if filed previously with another document,
Provided, However,
that such previously filed documents may be incorporated by reference to satisfy the filing requirements.
3. The number used in the far left column of the table refers to the appropriate subsection in paragraph (b) where a description of the exhibit can be found. Whenever necessary, alphabetical or numerical subparts may be used.
Exhibit Table
Securities act forms
S-1
S-3
SF-1
SF-3
S-4
1
S-8
S-11
F-1
F-3
F-4
1
Exchange act forms
10
8-K
2
10-D
10-Q
10-K
ABS-EE
(1) Underwriting agreement
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(2) Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(3) (i) Articles of incorporation
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(ii) Bylaws
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(4) Instruments defining the rights of securities holders, including indentures, (i) through (v)
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(vi) Description of registrant's securities
X
(5) Opinion re legality
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(6) [Reserved]
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
(7) Correspondence from an independent accountant regarding non-reliance on a previously issued audit report or completed interim review
X
(8) Opinion re tax matters
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(9) Voting trust agreement
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(10) Material contracts
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(11)-(12) [Reserved]
(13) Annual report to security holders, Form 10-Q or quarterly report to security holders
3
X
X
X
(14) Code of Ethics
X
X
(15) Letter re unaudited interim financial information
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(16) Letter re change in certifying accountant
4
X
X
X
X
X
X
(17) Correspondence on departure of director
X
(18) Letter re change in accounting principles
X
X
(19) Insider trading policies and procedures
X
(20) Other documents or statements to security holders
X
(21) Subsidiaries of the registrant
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(22) Subsidiary guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities and affiliates whose securities collateralize securities of the registrant
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(23) Consents of experts and counsel
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
5
X
5
X
5
X
5
X
(24) Power of attorney
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(25) Statement of eligibility of trustee
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(26) through (30) [Reserved]
(31) (i) Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications
X
X
(ii) Rule 13a-14/15d-14 Certifications
X
(32) Section 1350 Certifications
6
X
X
(33) Report on assessment of compliance with servicing criteria for asset-backed issuers
X
(34) Attestation report on assessment of compliance with servicing criteria for asset-backed securities
X
(35) Servicer compliance statement
X
(36) Depositor Certification for shelf offerings of asset-backed securities
X
(37) through (94) [Reserved]
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
(95) Mine Safety Disclosure Exhibit
X
X
(96) Technical report summary
7
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(97) Policy Relating to Recovery of Erroneously Awarded Compensation
X
(98) Reports, opinions, or appraisals in de-SPAC transactions
8
X
X
X
X
(99) Additional exhibits
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(100) [Reserved]
(101) Interactive Data File
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
(102) Asset Data File
X
X
X
X
(103) Asset Related Documents
X
X
X
X
(104) Cover Page Interactive Data File
X
X
X
(105) [Reserved]
(106) Static Pool PDF
X
X
X
(107) Filing Fee Table
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
1
An exhibit need not be provided about a company if: (1) With respect to such company an election has been made under Form S-4 or F-4 to provide information about such company at a level prescribed by Form S-3 or F-3; and (2) the form, the level of which has been elected under Form S-4 or F-4, would not require such company to provide such exhibit if it were registering a primary offering.
2
A Form 8-K exhibit is required only if relevant to the subject matter reported on the Form 8-K report. For example, if the Form 8-K pertains to the departure of a director, only the exhibit described in paragraph (b)(17) of this section need be filed. A required exhibit may be incorporated by reference from a previous filing.
3
Where incorporated by reference into the text of the prospectus and delivered to security holders along with the prospectus as permitted by the registration statement; or, in the case of the Form 10-K, where the annual report to security holders is incorporated by reference into the text of the Form 10-K.
4
If required pursuant to Item 304 of Regulation S-K.
5
Where the opinion of the expert or counsel has been incorporated by reference into a previously filed Securities Act registration statement.
6
Pursuant to §§ 240.13a-13(b)(3) and 240.15d-13(b)(3) of this chapter, asset-backed issuers are not required to file reports on Form 10-Q.
7
If required pursuant to § 229.1302 (Item 1302 of Regulation S-K).
8
If required pursuant to § 229.1607(c) (Item 1607(c) of Regulation S-K).
(b)
Description of exhibits.
Set forth below is a description of each document listed in the exhibit tables.
(1)
Underwriting agreement.
Each underwriting contract or agreement with a principal underwriter pursuant to which the securities being registered are to be distributed; if the terms of such documents have not been determined, the proposed forms thereof. Such agreement may be filed as an exhibit to a report on Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) which is incorporated by reference into a registration statement subsequent to its effectiveness.
(2)
Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation, or succession.
(i) Any material plan of acquisition, disposition, reorganization, readjustment, succession, liquidation, or arrangement and any amendments thereto described in the statement or report.
