(2) In the administration of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan there is a failure to comply substantially with any provision of such plan or with an evaluation standard or performance indicator established under section 106 of the Act.
(b)
Informal resolution.
Prior to withholding or limiting payments in accordance with this section, the Secretary attempts to resolve disputed issues informally with State officials.
(c)
Notice.
If, after reasonable effort has been made to resolve the dispute, no resolution has been reached, the Secretary provides notice to the State agency of the intention to withhold or limit payments and of the opportunity for a hearing.
(d)
Withholding hearing.
If the State agency requests a hearing, the Secretary designates one or more individuals, either from the Department or elsewhere, not responsible for or connected with the administration of this program, to conduct a hearing in accordance with the provisions of 34 CFR part 81, subpart A.
(e)
Initial decision.
The hearing officer issues an initial decision in accordance with 34 CFR 81.41.
(f)
Petition for review of an initial decision.
The State agency may seek the Secretary's review of the initial decision in accordance with 34 CFR 81.42.
(g)
Review by the Secretary.
The Secretary reviews the initial decision in accordance with 34 CFR 81.43.
(h)
Final decision of the Department.
The final decision of the Department is made in accordance with 34 CFR 81.44.
(i)
Judicial review.
A State may appeal the Secretary's decision to withhold or limit payments by filing a petition for review with the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the State is located, in accordance with section 107(d) of the Act.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(b), and 107(c) and (d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(b) and 727(c) and (d))

# Administration
§ 361.12
Methods of administration.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the State agency, and the designated State unit if applicable, employs methods of administration found necessary by the Secretary for the proper and efficient administration of the plan and for carrying out all functions for which the State is responsible under the plan and this part. These methods must include procedures to ensure accurate data collection and financial accountability.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(6) and (a)(10)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(6) and (a)(10)(A))
§ 361.13
State agency for administration.
(a)
Designation of State agency.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must designate a State agency as the sole State agency to administer the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, or to supervise its administration in a political subdivision of the State by a sole local agency, in accordance with the following requirements:
(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, the vocational rehabilitation services
portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must provide that the designated State agency is one of the following types of agencies:
(i) A State agency that is primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation or vocational and other rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities; or
(ii) A State agency that includes a vocational rehabilitation unit as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
American Samoa.
In the case of American Samoa, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must designate the Governor.
(3)
Designated State agency for individuals who are blind.
If a State commission or other agency that provides assistance or services to individuals who are blind is authorized under State law to provide vocational rehabilitation services to individuals who are blind, and this commission or agency is primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation or includes a vocational rehabilitation unit as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan may designate that agency as the sole State agency to administer the part of the plan under which vocational rehabilitation services are provided for individuals who are blind or to supervise its administration in a political subdivision of the State by a sole local agency.
(b)
Designation of State unit
—(1)
General.
If the designated State agency is not of the type specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section or if the designated State agency specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section is not primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation or vocational and other rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the agency (or each agency if two agencies are designated) includes a vocational rehabilitation bureau, division, or unit that—
(i) Is primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation or vocational and other rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities and is responsible for the administration of the State agency's vocational rehabilitation program under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan;
(ii) Has a full-time director who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the vocational rehabilitation program;
(iii) Has a staff, at least 90 percent of whom are employed full time on the rehabilitation work of the organizational unit;
(iv) Is located at an organizational level and has an organizational status within the State agency comparable to that of other major organizational units of the agency; and
(v) Has the sole authority and responsibility described within the designated State agency in paragraph (a) of this section to expend funds made available under the Act in a manner that is consistent with the purpose of the Act.
(2) In the case of a State that has not designated a separate State agency for individuals who are blind, as provided for in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the State may assign responsibility for the part of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan under which vocational rehabilitation services are provided to individuals who are blind to one organizational unit of the designated State agency and may assign responsibility for the rest of the plan to another organizational unit of the designated State agency, with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section applying separately to each of these units.
(c)
Responsibility for administration
—(1)
Required activities.
At a minimum, the following activities are the responsibility of the designated State unit or the sole local agency under the supervision of the State unit:
(i) All decisions affecting eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services, the nature and scope of available services, and the provision of these services.
(ii) The determination to close the record of services of an individual who has achieved an employment outcome in accordance with § 361.56.
(iii) Policy formulation and implementation.
(iv) The allocation and expenditure of vocational rehabilitation funds.
(v) Participation as a partner in the one-stop service delivery system established under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, in accordance with 20 CFR part 678.
(2)
Non-delegable responsibility.
The responsibility for the functions described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may not be delegated to any other agency or individual.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 101(a)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(2))
§ 361.14
Substitute State agency.
(a)
General provisions.
(1) If the Secretary has withheld all funding from a State under § 361.11, the State may designate another agency to substitute for the designated State agency in carrying out the State's program of vocational rehabilitation services.
(2) Any public or nonprofit private organization or agency within the State or any political subdivision of the State is eligible to be a substitute agency.
(3) The substitute agency must submit a vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan that meets the requirements of this part.
(4) The Secretary makes no grant to a substitute agency until the Secretary approves its plan.
(b)
Substitute agency matching share.
The Secretary does not make any payment to a substitute agency unless it has provided assurances that it will contribute the same matching share as the State would have been required to contribute if the State agency were carrying out the vocational rehabilitation program.
(Authority: Section 107(c)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 727(c)(3))
§ 361.15
Local administration.
(a) If the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan provides for the administration of the plan by a local agency, the designated State agency must—
(1) Ensure that each local agency is under the supervision of the designated State unit and is the sole local agency as defined in § 361.5(c)(47) that is responsible for the administration of the program within the political subdivision that it serves; and
(2) Develop methods that each local agency will use to administer the vocational rehabilitation program, in accordance with the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan.
(b) A separate local agency serving individuals who are blind may administer that part of the plan relating to vocational rehabilitation of individuals who are blind, under the supervision of the designated State unit for individuals who are blind.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 7(24) and 101(a)(2)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(24) and 721(a)(2)(A))
§ 361.16
Establishment of an independent commission or a State Rehabilitation Council.
(a)
General requirement.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must contain one of the following two assurances:
(1) An assurance that the designated State agency is an independent State commission that—
(i) Is responsible under State law for operating, or overseeing the operation of, the vocational rehabilitation program in the State and is primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation or vocational and other rehabilitation services, in accordance with § 361.13(a)(1)(i);
(ii) Is consumer-controlled by persons who—
(A) Are individuals with physical or mental impairments that substantially limit major life activities; and
(B) Represent individuals with a broad range of disabilities, unless the designated State unit under the direction of the commission is the State agency for individuals who are blind;
(iii) Includes family members, advocates, or other representatives of individuals with mental impairments; and
(iv) Conducts the functions identified in § 361.17(h)(4).
(2) An assurance that—
(i) The State has established a State Rehabilitation Council (Council) that meets the requirements of § 361.17;
(ii) The designated State unit, in accordance with § 361.29, jointly develops, agrees to, and reviews annually State goals and priorities and jointly submits to the Secretary annual reports of progress with the Council;
(iii) The designated State unit regularly consults with the Council regarding the development, implementation, and revision of State policies and procedures of general applicability pertaining to the provision of vocational rehabilitation services;
(iv) The designated State unit transmits to the Council—
(A) All plans, reports, and other information required under this part to be submitted to the Secretary;
(B) All policies and information on all practices and procedures of general applicability provided to or used by rehabilitation personnel providing vocational rehabilitation services under this part; and
(C) Copies of due process hearing decisions issued under this part and transmitted in a manner to ensure that the identity of the participants in the hearings is kept confidential; and
(v) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, and any revision to the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, includes a summary of input provided by the Council, including recommendations from the annual report of the Council, the review and analysis of consumer satisfaction described in § 361.17(h)(4), and other reports prepared by the Council, and the designated State unit's response to the input and recommendations, including its reasons for rejecting any input or recommendation of the Council.
(b)
Exception for separate State agency for individuals who are blind.
In the case of a State that designates a separate State agency under § 361.13(a)(3) to administer the part of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan under which vocational rehabilitation services are provided to individuals who are blind, the State must either establish a separate State Rehabilitation Council for each agency that does not meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or establish one State Rehabilitation Council for both agencies if neither agency meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 101(a)(21) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(21))
§ 361.17
Requirements for a State Rehabilitation Council.
If the State has established a Council under § 361.16(a)(2) or (b), the Council must meet the following requirements:
(a)
Appointment.
(1) The members of the Council must be appointed by the Governor or, in the case of a State that, under State law, vests authority for the administration of the activities carried out under this part in an entity other than the Governor (such as one or more houses of the State legislature or an independent board), the chief officer of that entity.
(2) The appointing authority must select members of the Council after soliciting recommendations from representatives of organizations representing a broad range of individuals with disabilities and organizations interested in individuals with disabilities. In selecting members, the appointing authority must consider, to the greatest extent practicable, the extent to which minority populations are represented on the Council.
(b)
Composition
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Council must be composed of at least 15 members, including—
(i) At least one representative of the Statewide Independent Living Council, who must be the chairperson or other designee of the Statewide Independent Living Council;
(ii) At least one representative of a parent training and information center established pursuant to section 682(a) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;
(iii) At least one representative of the Client Assistance Program established under part 370 of this chapter, who must be the director of or other individual recommended by the Client Assistance Program;
(iv) At least one qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor with knowledge of and experience with vocational rehabilitation programs who serves as an ex officio, nonvoting member of the Council if employed by the designated State agency;
(v) At least one representative of community rehabilitation program service providers;
(vi) Four representatives of business, industry, and labor;
(vii) Representatives of disability groups that include a cross section of—
(A) Individuals with physical, cognitive, sensory, and mental disabilities; and
(B) Representatives of individuals with disabilities who have difficulty representing themselves or are unable due to their disabilities to represent themselves;
(viii) Current or former applicants for, or recipients of, vocational rehabilitation services;
(ix) In a State in which one or more projects are funded under section 121 of the Act (American Indian Vocational Rehabilitation Services), at least one representative of the directors of the projects in such State;
(x) At least one representative of the State educational agency responsible for the public education of students with disabilities who are eligible to receive services under this part and part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;
(xi) At least one representative of the State workforce development board; and
(xii) The director of the designated State unit as an ex officio, nonvoting member of the Council.
(2)
Employees of the designated State agency.
Employees of the designated State agency may serve only as nonvoting members of the Council. This provision does not apply to the representative appointed pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(3)
Composition of a separate Council for a separate State agency for individuals who are blind.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, if the State establishes a separate Council for a separate State agency for individuals who are blind, that Council must—
(i) Conform with all of the composition requirements for a Council under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except the requirements in paragraph (b)(1)(vii), unless the exception in paragraph (b)(4) of this section applies; and
(ii) Include—
(A) At least one representative of a disability advocacy group representing individuals who are blind; and
(B) At least one representative of an individual who is blind, has multiple disabilities, and has difficulty representing himself or herself or is unable due to disabilities to represent himself or herself.
(4)
Exception.
If State law in effect on October 29, 1992 requires a separate Council under paragraph (b)(3) of this section to have fewer than 15 members, the separate Council is in compliance with the composition requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(vi) and (viii) of this section if it includes at least one representative who meets the requirements for each of those paragraphs.
(c)
Majority.
(1) A majority of the Council members must be individuals with disabilities who meet the requirements of § 361.5(c)(28) and are not employed by the designated State unit.
(2) In the case of a separate Council established under § 361.16(b), a majority of the Council members must be individuals who are blind and are not employed by the designated State unit.
(d)
Chairperson.
(1) The chairperson must be selected by the members of the Council from among the voting members of the Council, subject to the veto power of the Governor; or
(2) In States in which the Governor does not have veto power pursuant to State law, the appointing authority described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must designate a member of the Council to serve as the chairperson of the Council or must require the Council to designate a member to serve as chairperson.
(e)
Terms of appointment.
(1) Each member of the Council must be appointed for a term of no more than
three years, and each member of the Council, other than a representative identified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) or (ix) of this section, may serve for no more than two consecutive full terms.
(2) A member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the end of the term for which the predecessor was appointed must be appointed for the remainder of the predecessor's term.
(3) The terms of service of the members initially appointed must be, as specified by the appointing authority as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for varied numbers of years to ensure that terms expire on a staggered basis.
(f)
Vacancies.
(1) A vacancy in the membership of the Council must be filled in the same manner as the original appointment, except the appointing authority as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may delegate the authority to fill that vacancy to the remaining members of the Council after making the original appointment.
(2) No vacancy affects the power of the remaining members to execute the duties of the Council.
(g)
Conflict of interest.
No member of the Council may cast a vote on any matter that would provide direct financial benefit to the member or the member's organization or otherwise give the appearance of a conflict of interest under State law.
(h)
Functions.
The Council must, after consulting with the State workforce development board—
(1) Review, analyze, and advise the designated State unit regarding the performance of the State unit's responsibilities under this part, particularly responsibilities related to—
(i) Eligibility, including order of selection;
(ii) The extent, scope, and effectiveness of services provided; and
(iii) Functions performed by State agencies that affect or potentially affect the ability of individuals with disabilities in achieving employment outcomes under this part;
(2) In partnership with the designated State unit—
(i) Develop, agree to, and review State goals and priorities in accordance with § 361.29(c); and
(ii) Evaluate the effectiveness of the vocational rehabilitation program and submit reports of progress to the Secretary in accordance with § 361.29(e);
(3) Advise the designated State agency and the designated State unit regarding activities carried out under this part and assist in the preparation of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan and amendments to the plan, applications, reports, needs assessments, and evaluations required by this part;
(4) To the extent feasible, conduct a review and analysis of the effectiveness of, and consumer satisfaction with—
(i) The functions performed by the designated State agency;
(ii) The vocational rehabilitation services provided by State agencies and other public and private entities responsible for providing vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities under the Act; and
(iii) The employment outcomes achieved by eligible individuals receiving services under this part, including the availability of health and other employment benefits in connection with those employment outcomes;
(5) Prepare and submit to the Governor and to the Secretary no later than 90 days after the end of the Federal fiscal year an annual report on the status of vocational rehabilitation programs operated within the State and make the report available to the public through appropriate modes of communication;
(6) To avoid duplication of efforts and enhance the number of individuals served, coordinate activities with the activities of other councils within the State, including the Statewide Independent Living Council established under chapter 1, title VII of the Act, the advisory panel established under section 612(a)(21) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, the State Developmental Disabilities Planning Council described in section 124 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act, the State mental health planning council established under section 1914(a) of the Public Health Service Act, and the State workforce development board, and with the activities of entities carrying out
programs under the Assistive Technology Act of 1998;
(7) Provide for coordination and the establishment of working relationships between the designated State agency and the Statewide Independent Living Council and centers for independent living within the State; and
(8) Perform other comparable functions, consistent with the purpose of this part, as the Council determines to be appropriate, that are comparable to the other functions performed by the Council.
(i)
Resources.
(1) The Council, in conjunction with the designated State unit, must prepare a plan for the provision of resources, including staff and other personnel, that may be necessary and sufficient for the Council to carry out its functions under this part.
(2) The resource plan must, to the maximum extent possible, rely on the use of resources in existence during the period of implementation of the plan.
(3) Any disagreements between the designated State unit and the Council regarding the amount of resources necessary to carry out the functions of the Council must be resolved by the Governor, consistent with paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.
(4) The Council must, consistent with State law, supervise and evaluate the staff and personnel that are necessary to carry out its functions.
(5) Those staff and personnel that are assisting the Council in carrying out its functions may not be assigned duties by the designated State unit or any other agency or office of the State that would create a conflict of interest.
(j)
Meetings.
The Council must—
(1) Convene at least four meetings a year in locations determined by the Council to be necessary to conduct Council business. The meetings must be publicly announced, open, and accessible to the general public, including individuals with disabilities, unless there is a valid reason for an executive session; and
(2) Conduct forums or hearings, as appropriate, that are publicly announced, open, and accessible to the public, including individuals with disabilities.
(k)
Compensation.
Funds appropriated under title I of the Act, except funds to carry out sections 112 and 121 of the Act, may be used to compensate and reimburse the expenses of Council members in accordance with section 105(g) of the Act.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 105 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 725)
§ 361.18
Comprehensive system of personnel development.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe the procedures and activities the State agency will undertake to establish and maintain a comprehensive system of personnel development designed to ensure an adequate supply of qualified rehabilitation personnel, including professionals and paraprofessionals, for the designated State unit. If the State agency has a State Rehabilitation Council, this description must, at a minimum, specify that the Council has an opportunity to review and comment on the development of plans, policies, and procedures necessary to meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. This description must also conform with the following requirements:
(a)
Personnel and personnel development data system.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe the development and maintenance of a system by the State agency for collecting and analyzing on an annual basis data on qualified personnel needs and personnel development, in accordance with the following requirements:
(1) Data on qualified personnel needs must include—
(i) The number of personnel who are employed by the State agency in the provision of vocational rehabilitation services in relation to the number of individuals served, broken down by personnel category;
(ii) The number of personnel currently needed by the State agency to provide vocational rehabilitation services, broken down by personnel category; and
(iii) Projections of the number of personnel, broken down by personnel category, who will be needed by the State agency to provide vocational rehabilitation services in the State in five years based on projections of the number of individuals to be served, including individuals with significant disabilities, the number of personnel expected to retire or leave the field, and other relevant factors.
(2) Data on personnel development must include—
(i) A list of the institutions of higher education in the State that are preparing vocational rehabilitation professionals, by type of program;
(ii) The number of students enrolled at each of those institutions, broken down by type of program; and
(iii) The number of students who graduated during the prior year from each of those institutions with certification or licensure, or with the credentials for certification or licensure, broken down by the personnel category for which they have received, or have the credentials to receive, certification or licensure.
(b)
Plan for recruitment, preparation, and retention of qualified personnel.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe the development, updating, and implementation of a plan to address the current and projected needs for personnel who are qualified in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The plan must identify the personnel needs based on the data collection and analysis system described in paragraph (a) of this section and must provide for the coordination and facilitation of efforts between the designated State unit and institutions of higher education and professional associations to recruit, prepare, and retain personnel who are qualified in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, including personnel from minority backgrounds and personnel who are individuals with disabilities.
(c)
Personnel standards.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must include the State agency's policies and describe—
(i) Standards that are consistent with any national or State-approved or recognized certification, licensing, or registration requirements, or, in the absence of these requirements, other comparable requirements (including State personnel requirements) that apply to the profession or discipline in which that category of personnel is providing vocational rehabilitation services; and
(ii) The establishment and maintenance of education and experience requirements, to ensure that the personnel have a 21st-century understanding of the evolving labor force and the needs of individuals with disabilities, including requirements for—
(A)(
1
) Attainment of a baccalaureate degree in a field of study reasonably related to vocational rehabilitation, to indicate a level of competency and skill demonstrating basic preparation in a field of study such as vocational rehabilitation counseling, social work, psychology, disability studies, business administration, human resources, special education, supported employment, customized employment, economics, or another field that reasonably prepares individuals to work with consumers and employers; and
(
2
) Demonstrated paid or unpaid experience, for not less than one year, consisting of—
(
i
) Direct work with individuals with disabilities in a setting such as an independent living center;
(
ii
) Direct service or advocacy activities that provide such individual with experience and skills in working with individuals with disabilities; or
(
iii
) Direct experience in competitive integrated employment environments as an employer, as a small business owner or operator, or in self-employment, or other experience in human resources or recruitment, or experience in supervising employees, training, or other activities; or
(B) Attainment of a master's or doctoral degree in a field of study such as vocational rehabilitation counseling, law, social work, psychology, disability studies, business administration, human resources, special education, management, public administration, or another field that reasonably provides competence in the employment sector,
in a disability field, or in both business-related and rehabilitation-related fields; and
(2) As used in this section—
(i)
Profession or discipline
means a specific occupational category, including any paraprofessional occupational category, that—
(A) Provides rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities;
(B) Has been established or designated by the State unit; and
(C) Has a specified scope of responsibility.
(ii) Ensuring that personnel have a 21st-century understanding of the evolving labor force and the needs of individuals with disabilities means that personnel have specialized training and experience that enables them to work effectively with individuals with disabilities to assist them to achieve competitive integrated employment and with employers who hire such individuals. Relevant personnel skills include, but are not limited to—
(A) Understanding the functional limitations of various disabilities and the vocational implications of functional limitations on employment, especially with regard to individuals whose disabilities may require specialized services or groups of individuals with disabilities who comprise an increasing proportion of the State VR caseloads, such as individuals with traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress syndrome, mental illnesses, autism, blindness or deaf-blindness;
(B) Vocational assessment tools and strategies and the interpretation of vocational assessment results, including, when appropriate, situational and work-based assessments and analysis of transferrable work skills;
(C) Counseling and guidance skills, including individual and group counseling and career guidance;
(D) Effective use of practices leading to competitive integrated employment, such as supported employment, customized employment, internships, apprenticeships, paid work experiences, etc.;
(E) Case management and employment services planning, including familiarity and use of the broad range of disability, employment, and social services programs in the state and local area, such as independent living programs, Social Security work incentives, and the Social Security Administration`s Ticket-to-Work program;
(F) Caseload management, including familiarity with effective caseload management practices and the use of any available automated or information technology resources;
(G) In-depth knowledge of labor market trends, occupational requirements, and other labor market information that provides information about employers, business practices, and employer personnel needs, such as data provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Department of Labor's O*NET occupational system;
(H) The use of labor market information for vocational rehabilitation counseling, vocational planning, and the provision of information to consumers for the purposes of making informed choices, business engagement and business relationships, and job development and job placement;
(I) The use of labor market information to support building and maintaining relationships with employers and to inform delivery of job development and job placement activities that respond to today's labor market;
(J) Understanding the effective utilization of rehabilitation technology and job accommodations;
(K) Training in understanding the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act and other employment discrimination and employment-related laws;
(L) Advocacy skills to modify attitudinal and environmental barriers to employment for individuals with disabilities, including those with the most significant disabilities;
(M) Skills to address cultural diversity among consumers, particularly affecting workplace settings, including racial and ethnic diversity and generational differences; and
(N) Understanding confidentiality and ethical standards and practices, especially related to new challenges in use of social media, new partnerships, and data sharing.
(d)
Staff development.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan
must include the State agency's policies and describe the procedures and activities the State agency will undertake to ensure that all personnel employed by the State unit receive appropriate and adequate training, including a description of—
(i) A system of staff development for rehabilitation professionals and paraprofessionals within the State unit, particularly with respect to assessment, vocational counseling, job placement, and rehabilitation technology, including training implemented in coordination with entities carrying out State programs under section 4 of the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3003);
(ii) Procedures for acquiring and disseminating to rehabilitation professionals and paraprofessionals within the designated State unit significant knowledge from research and other sources; and
(iii) Policies and procedures relating to the establishment and maintenance of standards to ensure that personnel, including rehabilitation professionals and paraprofessionals, needed within the designated State unit to carry out this part are appropriately and adequately prepared and trained.
(2) The specific training areas for staff development must be based on the needs of each State unit and may include, but are not limited to—
(i) Training regarding the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the amendments it made to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973;
(ii) Training with respect to the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, and Social Security work incentive programs, including programs under the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999, training to facilitate informed choice under this program, and training to improve the provision of services to culturally diverse populations; and
(iii) Activities related to—
(A) Recruitment and retention of qualified rehabilitation personnel;
(B) Succession planning; and
(C) Leadership development and capacity building.
(e)
Personnel to address individual communication needs.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe how the designated State unit includes among its personnel, or obtains the services of—
(1) Individuals able to communicate in the native languages of applicants, recipients of services, and eligible individuals who have limited English proficiency; and
(2) Individuals able to communicate with applicants, recipients of services, and eligible individuals in appropriate modes of communication.
(f)
Coordination with personnel development under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe the procedures and activities the State agency will undertake to coordinate its comprehensive system of personnel development under the Act with personnel development under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(7) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(7))
§ 361.19
Affirmative action for individuals with disabilities.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the State agency takes affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities covered under and on the same terms and conditions as stated in section 503 of the Act.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 101(a)(6)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(6)(B))
§ 361.20
Public participation requirements.
(a)
Conduct of public meetings.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that prior to the adoption of any substantive policies or
procedures governing the provision of vocational rehabilitation services under the Unified or Combined State Plan, the designated State agency conducts public meetings throughout the State to provide the public, including individuals with disabilities, an opportunity to comment on the policies or procedures.
(2) For purposes of this section, substantive changes to the policies or procedures governing the provision of vocational rehabilitation services that would require the conduct of public meetings are those that directly impact the nature and scope of the services provided to individuals with disabilities, or the manner in which individuals interact with the designated State agency or in matters related to the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services. Examples of substantive changes include, but are not limited to—
(i) Any changes to policies or procedures that fundamentally alter the rights and responsibilities of individuals with disabilities in the vocational rehabilitation process;
(ii) Organizational changes to the designated State agency or unit that would likely affect the manner in which services are delivered;
(iii) Any changes that affect the nature and scope of vocational rehabilitation services provided by the designated State agency or unit;
(iv) Changes in formal or informal dispute procedures;
(v) The adoption or amendment of policies instituting an order of selection; and
(vi) Changes to policies and procedures regarding the financial participation of eligible individuals.
(3) Non-substantive,
e.g.
, administrative changes that would not require the need for public hearings include:
(i) Internal procedures that do not directly affect individuals receiving vocational rehabilitation services, such as payment processing or personnel procedures;
(ii) Changes to the case management system that only affect vocational rehabilitation personnel;
(iii) Changes in indirect cost allocations, internal fiscal review procedures, or routine reporting requirements;
(iv) Minor revisions to vocational rehabilitation procedures or policies to correct production errors, such as typographical and grammatical mistakes; and
(v) Changes to contract procedures that do not affect the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services.
(b)
Notice requirements.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the designated State agency, prior to conducting the public meetings, provides appropriate and sufficient notice throughout the State of the meetings in accordance with—
(1) State law governing public meetings; or
(2) In the absence of State law governing public meetings, procedures developed by the designated State agency in consultation with the State Rehabilitation Council.
(c)
Summary of input of the State Rehabilitation Council.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must provide a summary of the input of the State Rehabilitation Council, if the State agency has a Council, into the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan and any amendment to that portion of the plan, in accordance with § 361.16(a)(2)(v).
(d)
Special consultation requirements.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the State agency actively consults with the director of the Client Assistance Program, the State Rehabilitation Council, if the State agency has a Council, and, as appropriate, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and native Hawaiian organizations on its policies and procedures governing the provision of vocational rehabilitation services under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan.
(e)
Appropriate modes of communication.
The State unit must provide to the public, through appropriate modes of communication, notices of the public meetings, any materials furnished prior to or during the public meetings,
and the policies and procedures governing the provision of vocational rehabilitation services under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(16)(A), and 105(c)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(16)(A), and 725(c)(3))
§ 361.21
Consultations regarding the administration of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State plan.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that, in connection with matters of general policy arising in the administration of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, the designated State agency takes into account the views of—
(a) Individuals and groups of individuals who are recipients of vocational rehabilitation services or, as appropriate, the individuals' representatives;
(b) Personnel working in programs that provide vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities;
(c) Providers of vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities;
(d) The director of the Client Assistance Program; and
(e) The State Rehabilitation Council, if the State has a Council.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 101(a)(16)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(16)(B))
§ 361.22
Coordination with education officials.
(a)
Plans, policies, and procedures.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must contain plans, policies, and procedures for coordination between the designated State agency and education officials responsible for the public education of students with disabilities that are designed to facilitate the transition of students with disabilities from the receipt of educational services, including pre-employment transition services, in school to the receipt of vocational rehabilitation services under the responsibility of the designated State agency.
(2) These plans, policies, and procedures in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must provide for the development and approval of an individualized plan for employment in accordance with § 361.45 as early as possible during the transition planning process and not later than the time a student with a disability determined to be eligible for vocational rehabilitation services leaves the school setting or, if the designated State unit is operating under an order of selection, before each eligible student with a disability able to be served under the order leaves the school setting.
(b)
Formal interagency agreement.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must include information on a formal interagency agreement with the State educational agency that, at a minimum, provides for—
(1) Consultation and technical assistance, which may be provided using alternative means for meeting participation (such as video conferences and conference calls), to assist educational agencies in planning for the transition of students with disabilities from school to post-school activities, including pre-employment transition services and other vocational rehabilitation services;
(2) Transition planning by personnel of the designated State agency and educational agency personnel for students with disabilities that facilitates the development and implementation of their individualized education programs (IEPs) under section 614(d) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;
(3) The roles and responsibilities, including financial responsibilities, of each agency, including provisions for determining State lead agencies and qualified personnel responsible for transition services and pre-employment transition services;
(4) Procedures for outreach to and identification of students with disabilities who are in need of transition services and pre-employment transition
services. Outreach to these students should occur as early as possible during the transition planning process and must include, at a minimum, a description of the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program, eligibility requirements, application procedures, and scope of services that may be provided to eligible individuals;
(5) Coordination necessary to satisfy documentation requirements set forth in 34 CFR part 397 with regard to students and youth with disabilities who are seeking subminimum wage employment; and
(6) Assurance that, in accordance with 34 CFR 397.31, neither the State educational agency nor the local educational agency will enter into a contract or other arrangement with an entity, as defined in 34 CFR 397.5(d), for the purpose of operating a program under which a youth with a disability is engaged in work compensated at a subminimum wage.
(c)
Construction.
Nothing in this part will be construed to reduce the obligation under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.
) of a local educational agency or any other agency to provide or pay for any transition services that are also considered special education or related services and that are necessary for ensuring a free appropriate public education to children with disabilities within the State involved.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(11)(D), 101(c), and 511 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(11)(D), 721(c), and 794g)
§ 361.23
Requirements related to the statewide workforce development system.
As a required partner in the one-stop service delivery system (which is part of the statewide workforce development system under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act), the designated State unit must satisfy all requirements set forth in regulations in subpart F of this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 101(a)(11)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(11)(A); Section 121(b)(1)(B)(iv) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act; 29 U.S.C. 3151)
[81 FR 57779, Aug. 19, 2016]
§ 361.24
Cooperation and coordination with other entities.
(a)
Interagency cooperation.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe the designated State agency's cooperation with and use of the services and facilities of Federal, State, and local agencies and programs, including the State programs carried out under section 4 of the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3003), programs carried out by the Under Secretary for Rural Development of the Department of Agriculture, noneducational agencies serving out-of-school youth, and State use contracting programs, to the extent that such Federal, State, and local agencies and programs are not carrying out activities through the statewide workforce development system.
(b)
Coordination with the Statewide Independent Living Council and independent living centers.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the designated State unit, the Statewide Independent Living Council established under title VII, chapter 1, part B of the Act, and the independent living centers established under title VII, Chapter 1, Part C of the Act have developed working relationships and coordinate their activities.
(c)
Coordination with Employers.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe how the designated State unit will work with employers to identify competitive integrated employment opportunities and career exploration opportunities, in order to facilitate the provision of—
(1) Vocational rehabilitation services; and
(2) Transition services for youth with disabilities and students with disabilities, such as pre-employment transition services.
(d)
Cooperative agreement with recipients of grants for services to American Indians
—(1)
General.
In applicable cases, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the designated State agency has entered into a formal cooperative agreement with each grant recipient in the State that receives funds under part C of the Act (American Indian Vocational Rehabilitation Services).
(2)
Contents of formal cooperative agreement.
The agreement required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must describe strategies for collaboration and coordination in providing vocational rehabilitation services to American Indians who are individuals with disabilities, including—
(i) Strategies for interagency referral and information sharing that will assist in eligibility determinations and the development of individualized plans for employment;
(ii) Procedures for ensuring that American Indians who are individuals with disabilities and are living on or near a reservation or tribal service area are provided vocational rehabilitation services;
(iii) Strategies for the provision of transition planning by personnel of the designated State unit, the State educational agency, and the recipient of funds under part C of the Act, that will facilitate the development and approval of the individualized plan for employment under § 361.45; and
(iv) Provisions for sharing resources in cooperative studies and assessments, joint training activities, and other collaborative activities designed to improve the provision of services to American Indians who are individuals with disabilities.
(e)
Reciprocal referral services between two designated State units in the same State.
If there is a separate designated State unit for individuals who are blind, the two designated State units must establish reciprocal referral services, use each other's services and facilities to the extent feasible, jointly plan activities to improve services in the State for individuals with multiple impairments, including visual impairments, and otherwise cooperate to provide more effective services, including, if appropriate, entering into a written cooperative agreement.
(f)
Cooperative agreement regarding individuals eligible for home and community-based waiver programs.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must include an assurance that the designated State unit has entered into a formal cooperative agreement with the State agency responsible for administering the State Medicaid plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
) and the State agency with primary responsibility for providing services and supports for individuals with intellectual disabilities and individuals with developmental disabilities, with respect to the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services, including extended services, for individuals with the most significant disabilities who have been determined to be eligible for home and community-based services under a Medicaid waiver, Medicaid State plan amendment, or other authority related to a State Medicaid program.
(g)
Interagency cooperation.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan shall describe how the designated State agency will collaborate with the State agency responsible for administering the State Medicaid plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
), the State agency responsible for providing services for individuals with developmental disabilities, and the State agency responsible for providing mental health services, to develop opportunities for community-based employment in integrated settings, to the greatest extent practicable.
(h)
Coordination with assistive technology programs.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must include an assurance that the designated State unit, and the lead agency and implementing entity (if any) designated by the Governor of the State under section 4 of the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3003), have developed
working relationships and will enter into agreements for the coordination of their activities, including the referral of individuals with disabilities to programs and activities described in that section.
(i)
Coordination with ticket to work and self-sufficiency program.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must include an assurance that the designated State unit will coordinate activities with any other State agency that is functioning as an employment network under the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program established under section 1148 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-19).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(11) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(11))
§ 361.25
Statewideness.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that services provided under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan will be available in all political subdivisions of the State, unless a waiver of statewideness is requested and approved in accordance with § 361.26.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 101(a)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(4))
§ 361.26
Waiver of statewideness.
(a)
Availability.
The State unit may provide services in one or more political subdivisions of the State that increase services or expand the scope of services that are available statewide under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan if—
(1) The non-Federal share of the cost of these services is met from funds provided by a local public agency, including funds contributed to a local public agency by a private agency, organization, or individual;
(2) The services are likely to promote the vocational rehabilitation of substantially larger numbers of individuals with disabilities or of individuals with disabilities with particular types of impairments; and
(3) For purposes other than those specified in § 361.60(b)(3)(i) and consistent with the requirements in § 361.60(b)(3)(ii), the State includes in its vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, and the Secretary approves, a waiver of the statewideness requirement, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Request for waiver.
The request for a waiver of statewideness must—
(1) Identify the types of services to be provided;
(2) Contain a written assurance from the local public agency that it will make available to the State unit the non-Federal share of funds;
(3) Contain a written assurance that State unit approval will be obtained for each proposed service before it is put into effect; and
(4) Contain a written assurance that all other requirements of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, including a State's order of selection requirements, will apply to all services approved under the waiver.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 101(a)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(4))
§ 361.27
Shared funding and administration of joint programs.
(a) If the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan provides for the designated State agency to share funding and administrative responsibility with another State agency or local public agency to carry out a joint program to provide services to individuals with disabilities, the State must submit to the Secretary for approval a plan that describes its shared funding and administrative arrangement.
(b) The plan under paragraph (a) of this section must include—
(1) A description of the nature and scope of the joint program;
(2) The services to be provided under the joint program;
(3) The respective roles of each participating agency in the administration and provision of services; and
(4) The share of the costs to be assumed by each agency.
(c) If a proposed joint program does not comply with the statewideness requirement in § 361.25, the State unit must obtain a waiver of statewideness, in accordance with § 361.26.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 101(a)(2)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(2)(A))
§ 361.28
Third-party cooperative arrangements involving funds from other public agencies.
(a) The designated State unit may enter into a third-party cooperative arrangement for providing or contracting for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services with another State agency or a local public agency that is providing part or all of the non-Federal share in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, if the designated State unit ensures that—
(1) The services provided by the cooperating agency are not the customary or typical services provided by that agency but are new services that have a vocational rehabilitation focus or existing services that have been modified, adapted, expanded, or reconfigured to have a vocational rehabilitation focus;
(2) The services provided by the cooperating agency are only available to applicants for, or recipients of, services from the designated State unit;
(3) Program expenditures and staff providing services under the cooperative arrangement are under the administrative supervision of the designated State unit; and
(4) All requirements of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, including a State's order of selection, will apply to all services provided under the cooperative arrangement.
(b) If a third party cooperative arrangement does not comply with the statewideness requirement in § 361.25, the State unit must obtain a waiver of statewideness, in accordance with § 361.26.
(c) The cooperating agency's contribution toward the non-Federal share required under the arrangement, as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, may be made through:
(1) Cash transfers to the designated State unit;
(2) Certified personnel expenditures for the time cooperating agency staff spent providing direct vocational rehabilitation services pursuant to a third-party cooperative arrangement that meets the requirements of this section. Certified personnel expenditures may include the allocable portion of staff salary and fringe benefits based upon the amount of time cooperating agency staff directly spent providing services under the arrangement; and
(3) other direct expenditures incurred by the cooperating agency for the sole purpose of providing services under this section pursuant to a third-party cooperative arrangement that—
(i) Meets the requirements of this section;
(ii) Are verifiable as being incurred under the third-party cooperative arrangement; and
(iii) Do not meet the definition of third-party in-kind contributions under 2 CFR 200.96.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 361.29
Statewide assessment; annual estimates; annual State goals and priorities; strategies; and progress reports.
(a)
Comprehensive statewide assessment.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must include—
(i) The results of a comprehensive, statewide assessment, jointly conducted by the designated State unit and the State Rehabilitation Council (if the State unit has a Council) every three years. Results of the assessment are to be included in the vocational rehabilitation portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, submitted in accordance with the requirements of § 361.10(a) and the joint regulations of
this part. The comprehensive needs assessment must describe the rehabilitation needs of individuals with disabilities residing within the State, particularly the vocational rehabilitation services needs of—
(A) Individuals with the most significant disabilities, including their need for supported employment services;
(B) Individuals with disabilities who are minorities and individuals with disabilities who have been unserved or underserved by the vocational rehabilitation program carried out under this part;
(C) Individuals with disabilities served through other components of the statewide workforce development system as identified by those individuals and personnel assisting those individuals through the components of the system; and
(D) Youth with disabilities, and students with disabilities, including
(
1
) Their need for pre-employment transition services or other transition services; and
(
2
) An assessment of the needs of individuals with disabilities for transition services and pre-employment transition services, and the extent to which such services provided under this part are coordinated with transition services provided under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.
) in order to meet the needs of individuals with disabilities.
(ii) An assessment of the need to establish, develop, or improve community rehabilitation programs within the State.
(2) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the State will submit to the Secretary a report containing information regarding updates to the assessments under paragraph (a) of this section for any year in which the State updates the assessments at such time and in such manner as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(b)
Annual estimates.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must include, and must assure that the State will submit a report to the Secretary (at such time and in such manner determined appropriate by the Secretary) that includes, State estimates of—
(1) The number of individuals in the State who are eligible for services under this part;
(2) The number of eligible individuals who will receive services provided with funds provided under this part and under part § 363, including, if the designated State agency uses an order of selection in accordance with § 361.36, estimates of the number of individuals to be served under each priority category within the order;
(3) The number of individuals who are eligible for services under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but are not receiving such services due to an order of selection; and
(4) The costs of the services described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including, if the designated State agency uses an order of selection, the service costs for each priority category within the order.
(c)
Goals and priorities
—(1)
In general.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must identify the goals and priorities of the State in carrying out the program.
(2)
Council.
The goals and priorities must be jointly developed, agreed to, reviewed annually, and, as necessary, revised by the designated State unit and the State Rehabilitation Council, if the State unit has a Council.
(3)
Submission.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the State will submit to the Secretary a report containing information regarding revisions in the goals and priorities for any year in which the State revises the goals and priorities at such time and in such manner as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(4)
Basis for goals and priorities.
The State goals and priorities must be based on an analysis of—
(i) The comprehensive statewide assessment described in paragraph (a) of this section, including any updates to the assessment;
(ii) The performance of the State on the standards and indicators established under section 106 of the Act; and
(iii) Other available information on the operation and the effectiveness of
the vocational rehabilitation program carried out in the State, including any reports received from the State Rehabilitation Council under § 361.17(h) and the findings and recommendations from monitoring activities conducted under section 107 of the Act.
(5)
Service and outcome goals for categories in order of selection.
If the designated State agency uses an order of selection in accordance with § 361.36, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must identify the State's service and outcome goals and the time within which these goals may be achieved for individuals in each priority category within the order.
(d)
Strategies.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe the strategies the State will use to address the needs identified in the assessment conducted under paragraph (a) of this section and achieve the goals and priorities identified in paragraph (c) of this section, including—
(1) The methods to be used to expand and improve services to individuals with disabilities, including how a broad range of assistive technology services and assistive technology devices will be provided to those individuals at each stage of the rehabilitation process and how those services and devices will be provided to individuals with disabilities on a statewide basis;
(2) The methods to be used to improve and expand vocational rehabilitation services for students with disabilities, including the coordination of services designed to facilitate the transition of such students from the receipt of educational services in school to postsecondary life, including the receipt of vocational rehabilitation services under the Act, postsecondary education, employment, and pre-employment transition services;
(3) Strategies developed and implemented by the State to address the needs of students and youth with disabilities identified in the assessments described in paragraph (a) of this section and strategies to achieve the goals and priorities identified by the State to improve and expand vocational rehabilitation services for students and youth with disabilities on a statewide basis;
(4) Strategies to provide pre-employment transition services;
(5) Outreach procedures to identify and serve individuals with disabilities who are minorities and individuals with disabilities who have been unserved or underserved by the vocational rehabilitation program;
(6) As applicable, the plan of the State for establishing, developing, or improving community rehabilitation programs;
(7) Strategies to improve the performance of the State with respect to the evaluation standards and performance indicators established pursuant to section 106 of the Act and section 116 of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act; and
(8) Strategies for assisting other components of the statewide workforce development system in assisting individuals with disabilities.
(e)
Evaluation and reports of progress.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must include—
(i) The results of an evaluation of the effectiveness of the vocational rehabilitation program; and
(ii) A joint report by the designated State unit and the State Rehabilitation Council, if the State unit has a Council, to the Secretary on the progress made in improving the effectiveness of the program from the previous year. This evaluation and joint report must include—
(A) An evaluation of the extent to which the goals and priorities identified in paragraph (c) of this section were achieved;
(B) A description of the strategies that contributed to the achievement of the goals and priorities;
(C) To the extent to which the goals and priorities were not achieved, a description of the factors that impeded that achievement; and
(D) An assessment of the performance of the State on the standards and indicators established pursuant to section 106 of the Act.
(2) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the designated State unit and the State
Rehabilitation Council, if the State unit has a Council, will jointly submit to the Secretary a report that contains the information described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section at such time and in such manner the Secretary determines appropriate.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 101(a)(15) and (25) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(15) and (25))
§ 361.30
Services to American Indians.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the designated State agency provides vocational rehabilitation services to American Indians who are individuals with disabilities residing in the State to the same extent as the designated State agency provides vocational rehabilitation services to other significant populations of individuals with disabilities residing in the State.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 101(a)(13) and 121(b)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(13) and 741(b)(3))
§ 361.31
Cooperative agreements with private nonprofit organizations.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must describe the manner in which cooperative agreements with private nonprofit vocational rehabilitation service providers will be established.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 101(a)(24)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(24)(B))
§ 361.32
Provision of training and services for employers.
The designated State unit may expend payments received under this part to educate and provide services to employers who have hired or are interested in hiring individuals with disabilities under the vocational rehabilitation program, including—
(a) Providing training and technical assistance to employers regarding the employment of individuals with disabilities, including disability awareness, and the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
) and other employment-related laws;
(b) Working with employers to—
(1) Provide opportunities for work-based learning experiences (including internships, short-term employment, apprenticeships, and fellowships);
(2) Provide opportunities for pre-employment transition services, in accordance with the requirements under § 361.48(a);
(3) Recruit qualified applicants who are individuals with disabilities;
(4) Train employees who are individuals with disabilities; and
(5) Promote awareness of disability-related obstacles to continued employment.
(c) Providing consultation, technical assistance, and support to employers on workplace accommodations, assistive technology, and facilities and workplace access through collaboration with community partners and employers, across States and nationally, to enable the employers to recruit, job match, hire, and retain qualified individuals with disabilities who are recipients of vocational rehabilitation services under this part, or who are applicants for such services; and
(d) Assisting employers with utilizing available financial support for hiring or accommodating individuals with disabilities.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 109 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 728A)
§ 361.33
[Reserved]
§ 361.34
Supported employment State plan supplement.
(a) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the State has an acceptable plan under part 363 of this chapter that provides for the use of funds under that part to supplement funds under this part for the cost of services leading to supported employment.
(b) The supported employment plan, including any needed revisions, must
be submitted as a supplement to the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan submitted under this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 101(a)(22) and 606 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(22) and 795k)
§ 361.35
Innovation and expansion activities.
(a) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the State will reserve and use a portion of the funds allotted to the State under section 110 of the Act—
(1) For the development and implementation of innovative approaches to expand and improve the provision of vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities, particularly individuals with the most significant disabilities, including transition services for students and youth with disabilities and pre-employment transition services for students with disabilities, consistent with the findings of the comprehensive statewide assessment of the rehabilitation needs of individuals with disabilities under § 361.29(a) and the State's goals and priorities under § 361.29(c);
(2) To support the funding of the State Rehabilitation Council, if the State has a Council, consistent with the resource plan identified in § 361.17(i); and
(3) To support the funding of the Statewide Independent Living Council, consistent with the Statewide Independent Living Council resource plan prepared under Section 705(e)(1) of the Act.
(b) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must—
(1) Describe how the reserved funds will be used; and
(2) Include a report describing how the reserved funds were used.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(18) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a) (18))
§ 361.36
Ability to serve all eligible individuals; order of selection for services.
(a)
General provisions
—(1) The designated State unit either must be able to provide the full range of services listed in section 103(a) of the Act and § 361.48, as appropriate, to all eligible individuals or, in the event that vocational rehabilitation services cannot be provided to all eligible individuals in the State who apply for the services, include in the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan the order to be followed in selecting eligible individuals to be provided vocational rehabilitation services.
(2) The ability of the designated State unit to provide the full range of vocational rehabilitation services to all eligible individuals must be supported by a determination that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section and a determination that, on the basis of the designated State unit's projected fiscal and personnel resources and its assessment of the rehabilitation needs of individuals with significant disabilities within the State, it can—
(i) Continue to provide services to all individuals currently receiving services;
(ii) Provide assessment services to all individuals expected to apply for services in the next fiscal year;
(iii) Provide services to all individuals who are expected to be determined eligible in the next fiscal year; and
(iv) Meet all program requirements.
(3) If the designated State unit is unable to provide the full range of vocational rehabilitation services to all eligible individuals in the State who apply for the services, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must—
(i) Show the order to be followed in selecting eligible individuals to be provided vocational rehabilitation services;
(ii) Provide a justification for the order of selection;
(iii) Identify service and outcome goals and the time within which the goals may be achieved for individuals in each priority category within the order, as required under § 361.29(c)(5);
(iv) Assure that—
(A) In accordance with criteria established by the State for the order of selection, individuals with the most significant disabilities will be selected first for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services; and
(B) Individuals who do not meet the order of selection criteria will have access to services provided through the information and referral system established under § 361.37; and
(v) State whether the designated State unit will elect to serve, in its discretion, eligible individuals (whether or not the individuals are receiving vocational rehabilitation services under the order of selection) who require specific services or equipment to maintain employment, notwithstanding the assurance provided pursuant to paragraph (3)(iv)(A) of this section.
(b)
Basis for assurance that services can be provided to all eligible individuals.
(1) For a designated State unit that determined, for the current fiscal year and the preceding fiscal year, that it is able to provide the full range of services, as appropriate, to all eligible individuals, the State unit, during the current fiscal and preceding fiscal year, must have in fact—
(i) Provided assessment services to all applicants and the full range of services, as appropriate, to all eligible individuals;
(ii) Made referral forms widely available throughout the State;
(iii) Conducted outreach efforts to identify and serve individuals with disabilities who have been unserved or underserved by the vocational rehabilitation system; and
(iv) Not delayed, through waiting lists or other means, determinations of eligibility, the development of individualized plans for employment for individuals determined eligible for vocational rehabilitation services, or the provision of services for eligible individuals for whom individualized plans for employment have been developed.
(2) For a designated State unit that was unable to provide the full range of services to all eligible individuals during the current or preceding fiscal year or that has not met the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the determination that the designated State unit is able to provide the full range of vocational rehabilitation services to all eligible individuals in the next fiscal year must be based on—
(i) A demonstration that circumstances have changed that will allow the designated State unit to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section in the next fiscal year, including—
(A) An estimate of the number of and projected costs of serving, in the next fiscal year, individuals with existing individualized plans for employment;
(B) The projected number of individuals with disabilities who will apply for services and will be determined eligible in the next fiscal year and the projected costs of serving those individuals;
(C) The projected costs of administering the program in the next fiscal year, including, but not limited to, costs of staff salaries and benefits, outreach activities, and required statewide studies; and
(D) The projected revenues and projected number of qualified personnel for the program in the next fiscal year.
(ii) Comparable data, as relevant, for the current or preceding fiscal year, or for both years, of the costs listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section and the resources identified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section and an explanation of any projected increases or decreases in these costs and resources; and
(iii) A determination that the projected revenues and the projected number of qualified personnel for the program in the next fiscal year are adequate to cover the costs identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section to ensure the provision of the full range of services, as appropriate, to all eligible individuals.
(c)
Determining need for establishing and implementing an order of selection.
(1) The designated State unit must determine, prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, whether to establish and implement an order of selection.
(2) If the designated State unit determines that it does not need to establish an order of selection, it must reevaluate this determination whenever changed circumstances during the
course of a fiscal year, such as a decrease in its fiscal or personnel resources or an increase in its program costs, indicate that it may no longer be able to provide the full range of services, as appropriate, to all eligible individuals, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3) If a designated State unit establishes an order of selection, but determines that it does not need to implement that order at the beginning of the fiscal year, it must continue to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or it must implement the order of selection by closing one or more priority categories.
(d)
Establishing an order of selection
—(1)
Basis for order of selection.
An order of selection must be based on a refinement of the three criteria in the definition of
individual with a significant disability
in section 7(21)(A) of the Act and § 361.5(c)(30).
(2)
Factors that cannot be used in determining order of selection of eligible individuals.
An order of selection may not be based on any other factors, including—
(i) Any duration of residency requirement, provided the individual is present in the State;
(ii) Type of disability;
(iii) Age, sex, race, color, or national origin;
(iv) Source of referral;
(v) Type of expected employment outcome;
(vi) The need for specific services except those services provided in accordance with 361.36(a)(3)(v), or anticipated cost of services required by an individual; or
(vii) The income level of an individual or an individual's family.
(e)
Administrative requirements.
In administering the order of selection, the designated State unit must—
(1) Implement the order of selection on a statewide basis;
(2) Notify all eligible individuals of the priority categories in a State's order of selection, their assignment to a particular category, and their right to appeal their category assignment;
(3) Continue to provide services to any recipient who has begun to receive services irrespective of the severity of the individual's disability as follows—
(i) The designated State unit must continue to provide pre-employment transition services to students with disabilities who were receiving such services prior to being determined eligible for vocational rehabilitation services; and
(ii) The designated State unit must continue to provide to an eligible individual all needed services listed on the individualized plan for employment if the individual had begun receiving such services prior to the effective date of the State's order of selection; and
(4) Ensure that its funding arrangements for providing services under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, including third-party arrangements and awards under the establishment authority, are consistent with the order of selection. If any funding arrangements are inconsistent with the order of selection, the designated State unit must renegotiate these funding arrangements so that they are consistent with the order of selection.
(f)
State Rehabilitation Council.
The designated State unit must consult with the State Rehabilitation Council, if the State unit has a Council, regarding the—
(1) Need to establish an order of selection, including any reevaluation of the need under paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(2) Priority categories of the particular order of selection;
(3) Criteria for determining individuals with the most significant disabilities; and
(4) Administration of the order of selection.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(d); 101(a)(5); 101(a)(12); 101(a)(15)(A), (B) and (C); 101(a)(21)(A)(ii); and 504(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(d), 721(a)(5), 721(a)(12), 721(a)(15)(A), (B) and (C); 721(a)(21)(A)(ii), and 794(a))
§ 361.37
Information and referral programs.
(a)
General provisions.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that—
(1) The designated State agency will implement an information and referral system adequate to ensure that individuals with disabilities, including eligible individuals who do not meet the agency's order of selection criteria for receiving vocational rehabilitation services if the agency is operating on an order of selection, are provided accurate vocational rehabilitation information and guidance (which may include counseling and referral for job placement) using appropriate modes of communication to assist them in preparing for, securing, retaining, advancing in, or regaining employment; and
(2) The designated State agency will refer individuals with disabilities to other appropriate Federal and State programs, including other components of the statewide workforce development system.
(b) The designated State unit must refer to appropriate programs and service providers best suited to address the specific rehabilitation, independent living and employment needs of an individual with a disability who makes an informed choice not to pursue an employment outcome under the vocational rehabilitation program, as defined in § 361.5(c)(15). Before making the referral required by this paragraph, the State unit must—
(1) Consistent with § 361.42(a)(4)(i), explain to the individual that the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program is to assist individuals to achieve an employment outcome as defined in § 361.5(c)(15);
(2) Consistent with § 361.52, provide the individual with information concerning the availability of employment options, and of vocational rehabilitation services, to assist the individual to achieve an appropriate employment outcome;
(3) Inform the individual that services under the vocational rehabilitation program can be provided to eligible individuals in an extended employment setting if necessary for purposes of training or otherwise preparing for employment in an integrated setting;
(4) Inform the individual that, if he or she initially chooses not to pursue an employment outcome as defined in § 361.5(c)(15), he or she can seek services from the designated State unit at a later date if, at that time, he or she chooses to pursue an employment outcome; and
(5) Refer the individual, as appropriate, to the Social Security Administration in order to obtain information concerning the ability of individuals with disabilities to work while receiving benefits from the Social Security Administration.
(c)
Criteria for appropriate referrals.
In making the referrals identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the designated State unit must—
(1) Refer the individual to Federal or State programs, including programs carried out by other components of the statewide workforce development system, best suited to address the specific employment needs of an individual with a disability; and
(2) Provide the individual who is being referred—
(i) A notice of the referral by the designated State agency to the agency carrying out the program;
(ii) Information identifying a specific point of contact within the agency to which the individual is being referred; and
(iii) Information and advice regarding the most suitable services to assist the individual to prepare for, secure, retain, or regain employment.
(d)
Order of selection.
In providing the information and referral services under this section to eligible individuals who are not in the priority category or categories to receive vocational rehabilitation services under the State's order of selection, the State unit must identify, as part of its reporting under section 101(a)(10) of the Act and § 361.40, the number of eligible individuals who did not meet the agency's order of selection criteria for receiving vocational rehabilitation services and did receive information and referral services under this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 7(11), 12(c), 101(a)(5)(E), 101(a)(10)(C)(ii), and 101(a)(20) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(11), 709(c), 721(a)(5)(E), 721(a)(10)(C)(ii), and 721(a)(20))
§ 361.38
Protection, use, and release of personal information.
(a)
General provisions.
(1) The State agency and the State unit must adopt and implement written policies and procedures to safeguard the confidentiality of all personal information, including photographs and lists of names. These policies and procedures must ensure that—
(i) Specific safeguards are established to protect current and stored personal information, including a requirement that data only be released when governed by a written agreement between the designated State unit and receiving entity under paragraphs (d) and (e)(1) of this section, which addresses the requirements in this section;
(ii) All applicants and recipients of services and, as appropriate, those individuals' representatives, service providers, cooperating agencies, and interested persons are informed through appropriate modes of communication of the confidentiality of personal information and the conditions for accessing and releasing this information;
(iii) All applicants and recipients of services or their representatives are informed about the State unit's need to collect personal information and the policies governing its use, including—
(A) Identification of the authority under which information is collected;
(B) Explanation of the principal purposes for which the State unit intends to use or release the information;
(C) Explanation of whether providing requested information to the State unit is mandatory or voluntary and the effects of not providing requested information;
(D) Identification of those situations in which the State unit requires or does not require informed written consent of the individual before information may be released; and
(E) Identification of other agencies to which information is routinely released;
(iv) An explanation of State policies and procedures affecting personal information will be provided to each individual in that individual's native language or through the appropriate mode of communication; and
(v) These policies and procedures provide no fewer protections for individuals than State laws and regulations.
(2) The State unit may establish reasonable fees to cover extraordinary costs of duplicating records or making extensive searches and must establish policies and procedures governing access to records.
(b)
State program use.
All personal information in the possession of the State agency or the designated State unit must be used only for the purposes directly connected with the administration of the vocational rehabilitation program. Information containing identifiable personal information may not be shared with advisory or other bodies that do not have official responsibility for administration of the program. In the administration of the program, the State unit may obtain personal information from service providers and cooperating agencies under assurances that the information may not be further divulged, except as provided under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
(c)
Release to applicants and recipients of services.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, if requested in writing by an applicant or recipient of services, the State unit must make all requested information in that individual's record of services accessible to and must release the information to the individual or the individual's representative in a timely manner.
(2) Medical, psychological, or other information that the State unit determines may be harmful to the individual may not be released directly to the individual, but must be provided to the individual through a third party chosen by the individual, which may include, among others, an advocate, a family member, or a qualified medical or mental health professional, unless a representative has been appointed by a court to represent the individual, in which case the information must be released to the court-appointed representative.
(3) If personal information has been obtained from another agency or organization, it may be released only by, or under the conditions established by, the other agency or organization.
(4) An applicant or recipient of services who believes that information in the individual's record of services is inaccurate or misleading may request that the designated State unit amend the information. If the information is not amended, the request for an amendment must be documented in the record of services, consistent with § 361.47(a)(12).
(d)
Release for audit, evaluation, and research.
Personal information may be released to an organization, agency, or individual engaged in audit, evaluation, or research only for purposes directly connected with the administration of the vocational rehabilitation program or for purposes that would significantly improve the quality of life for applicants and recipients of services and only if, in accordance with a written agreement, the organization, agency, or individual assures that—
(1) The information will be used only for the purposes for which it is being provided;
(2) The information will be released only to persons officially connected with the audit, evaluation, or research;
(3) The information will not be released to the involved individual;
(4) The information will be managed in a manner to safeguard confidentiality; and
(5) The final product will not reveal any personal identifying information without the informed written consent of the involved individual or the individual's representative.
(e)
Release to other programs or authorities.
(1) Upon receiving the informed written consent of the individual or, if appropriate, the individual's representative, the State unit may release personal information to another agency or organization, in accordance with a written agreement, for its program purposes only to the extent that the information may be released to the involved individual or the individual's representative and only to the extent that the other agency or organization demonstrates that the information requested is necessary for its program.
(2) Medical or psychological information that the State unit determines may be harmful to the individual may be released if the other agency or organization assures the State unit that the information will be used only for the purpose for which it is being provided and will not be further released to the individual.
(3) The State unit must release personal information if required by Federal law or regulations.
(4) The State unit must release personal information in response to investigations in connection with law enforcement, fraud, or abuse, unless expressly prohibited by Federal or State laws or regulations, and in response to an order issued by a judge, magistrate, or other authorized judicial officer.
(5) The State unit also may release personal information in order to protect the individual or others if the individual poses a threat to his or her safety or to the safety of others.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(6)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(6)(A))
§ 361.39
State-imposed requirements.
The designated State unit must, upon request, identify those regulations and policies relating to the administration or operation of its vocational rehabilitation program that are State-imposed, including any regulations or policy based on State interpretation of any Federal law, regulation, or guideline.
(Authority: Section 17 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 714)
§ 361.40
Reports; Evaluation standards and performance indicators.
(a)
Reports.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the designated State agency will submit reports, including reports required under sections 13, 14, and 101(a)(10) of the Act—
(i) In the form and level of detail and at the time required by the Secretary regarding applicants for and eligible individuals receiving services, including students receiving pre-employment transition services in accordance with § 361.48(a); and
(ii) In a manner that provides a complete count (other than the information obtained through sampling consistent with section 101(a)(10)(E) of the
Act) of the applicants and eligible individuals to—
(A) Permit the greatest possible cross-classification of data; and
(B) Protect the confidentiality of the identity of each individual.
(2) The designated State agency must comply with any requirements necessary to ensure the accuracy and verification of those reports.
(b)
Evaluation standards and performance indicators
—(1)
Standards and indicators.
The evaluation standards and performance indicators for the vocational rehabilitation program carried out under this part are subject to the performance accountability provisions described in section 116(b) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and implemented in regulations set forth in subpart E of this part.
(2)
Compliance.
A State's compliance with common performance measures and any necessary corrective actions will be determined in accordance with regulations set forth in subpart E of this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(10)(A) and (F), and 106 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c),721(a)(10)(A) and (F), and 726)
[81 FR 55741, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 55780, Aug. 19, 2016]

# Provision and Scope of Services
§ 361.41
Processing referrals and applications.
(a)
Referrals.
The designated State unit must establish and implement standards for the prompt and equitable handling of referrals of individuals for vocational rehabilitation services, including referrals of individuals made through the one-stop service delivery systems under section 121 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. The standards must include timelines for making good faith efforts to inform these individuals of application requirements and to gather information necessary to initiate an assessment for determining eligibility and priority for services.
(b)
Applications.
(1) Once an individual has submitted an application for vocational rehabilitation services, including applications made through common intake procedures in one-stop centers under section 121 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, an eligibility determination must be made within 60 days, unless—
(i) Exceptional and unforeseen circumstances beyond the control of the designated State unit preclude making an eligibility determination within 60 days and the designated State unit and the individual agree to a specific extension of time; or
(ii) An exploration of the individual's abilities, capabilities, and capacity to perform in work situations is carried out in accordance with § 361.42(e).
(2) An individual is considered to have submitted an application when the individual or the individual's representative, as appropriate—
(i)(A) Has completed and signed an agency application form;
(B) Has completed a common intake application form in a one-stop center requesting vocational rehabilitation services; or
(C) Has otherwise requested services from the designated State unit;
(ii) Has provided to the designated State unit information necessary to initiate an assessment to determine eligibility and priority for services; and
(iii) Is available to complete the assessment process.
(3) The designated State unit must ensure that its application forms are widely available throughout the State, particularly in the one-stop centers under section 121 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(6)(A), and 102(a)(6) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(6)(A), and 722(a)(6))
§ 361.42
Assessment for determining eligibility and priority for services.
In order to determine whether an individual is eligible for vocational rehabilitation services and the individual's priority under an order of selection for services (if the State is operating under an order of selection), the designated State unit must conduct an assessment for determining eligibility and priority for services. The assessment must be
conducted in the most integrated setting possible, consistent with the individual's needs and informed choice, and in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)
Eligibility requirements
—(1)
Basic requirements.
The designated State unit's determination of an applicant's eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services must be based only on the following requirements:
(i) A determination by qualified personnel that the applicant has a physical or mental impairment;
(ii) A determination by qualified personnel that the applicant's physical or mental impairment constitutes or results in a substantial impediment to employment for the applicant; and
(iii) A determination by a qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor employed by the designated State unit that the applicant requires vocational rehabilitation services to prepare for, secure, retain, advance in, or regain employment that is consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interest, and informed choice. For purposes of an assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs under this part, an individual is presumed to have a goal of an employment outcome.
(2)
Presumption of benefit.
The designated State unit must presume that an applicant who meets the eligibility requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section can benefit in terms of an employment outcome.
(3)
Presumption of eligibility for Social Security recipients and beneficiaries.
(i) Any applicant who has been determined eligible for Social Security benefits under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act is—
(A) Presumed eligible for vocational rehabilitation services under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section; and
(B) Considered an individual with a significant disability as defined in § 361.5(c)(29).
(ii) If an applicant for vocational rehabilitation services asserts that he or she is eligible for Social Security benefits under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act (and, therefore, is presumed eligible for vocational rehabilitation services under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section), but is unable to provide appropriate evidence, such as an award letter, to support that assertion, the State unit must verify the applicant's eligibility under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act by contacting the Social Security Administration. This verification must be made within a reasonable period of time that enables the State unit to determine the applicant's eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services within 60 days of the individual submitting an application for services in accordance with § 361.41(b)(2).
(4)
Achievement of an employment outcome.
Any eligible individual, including an individual whose eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services is based on the individual being eligible for Social Security benefits under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act, must intend to achieve an employment outcome that is consistent with the applicant's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
(i) The State unit is responsible for informing individuals, through its application process for vocational rehabilitation services, that individuals who receive services under the program must intend to achieve an employment outcome.
(ii) The applicant's completion of the application process for vocational rehabilitation services is sufficient evidence of the individual's intent to achieve an employment outcome, and no additional demonstration on the part of the applicant is required for purposes of satisfying paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(5)
Interpretation.
Nothing in this section, including paragraph (a)(3)(i), is to be construed to create an entitlement to any vocational rehabilitation service.
(b)
Interim determination of eligibility.
(1) The designated State unit may initiate the provision of vocational rehabilitation services for an applicant on the basis of an interim determination of eligibility prior to the 60-day period described in § 361.41(b)(2).
(2) If a State chooses to make interim determinations of eligibility, the designated State unit must—
(i) Establish criteria and conditions for making those determinations;
(ii) Develop and implement procedures for making the determinations; and
(iii) Determine the scope of services that may be provided pending the final determination of eligibility.
(3) If a State elects to use an interim eligibility determination, the designated State unit must make a final determination of eligibility within 60 days of the individual submitting an application for services in accordance with § 361.41(b)(2).
(c)
Prohibited factors.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the State unit will not impose, as part of determining eligibility under this section, a duration of residence requirement that excludes from services any applicant who is present in the State. The designated State unit may not require the applicant to demonstrate a presence in the State through the production of any documentation that under State or local law, or practical circumstances, results in a de facto duration of residence requirement.
(2) In making a determination of eligibility under this section, the designated State unit also must ensure that—
(i) No applicant or group of applicants is excluded or found ineligible solely on the basis of the type of disability; and
(ii) The eligibility requirements are applied without regard to the—
(A) Age, sex, race, color, or national origin of the applicant;
(B) Type of expected employment outcome;
(C) Source of referral for vocational rehabilitation services;
(D) Particular service needs or anticipated cost of services required by an applicant or the income level of an applicant or applicant's family;
(E) Applicants' employment history or current employment status; and
(F) Applicants' educational status or current educational credential.
(d)
Review and assessment of data for eligibility determination.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the designated State unit—
(1) Must base its determination of each of the basic eligibility requirements in paragraph (a) of this section on—
(i) A review and assessment of existing data, including counselor observations, education records, information provided by the individual or the individual's family, particularly information used by education officials, and determinations made by officials of other agencies; and
(ii) To the extent existing data do not describe the current functioning of the individual or are unavailable, insufficient, or inappropriate to make an eligibility determination, an assessment of additional data resulting from the provision of vocational rehabilitation services, including trial work experiences, assistive technology devices and services, personal assistance services, and any other support services that are necessary to determine whether an individual is eligible; and
(2) Must base its presumption under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section that an applicant who has been determined eligible for Social Security benefits under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act satisfies each of the basic eligibility requirements in paragraph (a) of this section on determinations made by the Social Security Administration.
(e)
Trial work experiences for individuals with significant disabilities.
(1) Prior to any determination that an individual with a disability is unable to benefit from vocational rehabilitation services in terms of an employment outcome because of the severity of that individual's disability or that the individual is ineligible for vocational rehabilitation services, the designated State unit must conduct an exploration of the individual's abilities, capabilities, and capacity to perform in realistic work situations.
(2)(i) The designated State unit must develop a written plan to assess periodically the individual's abilities, capabilities, and capacity to perform in competitive integrated work situations through the use of trial work experiences, which must be provided in competitive integrated employment settings to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the informed choice
and rehabilitation needs of the individual.
(ii) Trial work experiences include supported employment, on-the-job training, and other experiences using realistic integrated work settings.
(iii) Trial work experiences must be of sufficient variety and over a sufficient period of time for the designated State unit to determine that—
(A) There is sufficient evidence to conclude that the individual can benefit from the provision of vocational rehabilitation services in terms of an employment outcome; or
(B) There is clear and convincing evidence that due to the severity of the individual's disability, the individual is incapable of benefitting from the provision of vocational rehabilitation services in terms of an employment outcome; and
(iv) The designated State unit must provide appropriate supports, including, but not limited to, assistive technology devices and services and personal assistance services, to accommodate the rehabilitation needs of the individual during the trial work experiences.
(f)
Data for determination of priority for services under an order of selection.
If the designated State unit is operating under an order of selection for services, as provided in § 361.36, the State unit must base its priority assignments on—
(1) A review of the data that was developed under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section to make the eligibility determination; and
(2) An assessment of additional data, to the extent necessary.
(Authority: Sections 7(2), 12(c), 101(a)(12), 102(a), 103(a)(1), 103(a)(9), 103(a)(10), and 103(a)(14) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(2), 709(c), 721(a)(12), 722(a), 723(a)(1), 723(a)(9), 723(a)(10), and 723(a)(14))

# Note to § 361.42:
Clear and convincing evidence
means that the designated State unit has a high degree of certainty before it can conclude that an individual is incapable of benefiting from services in terms of an employment outcome. The clear and convincing standard constitutes the highest standard used in our civil system of law and is to be individually applied on a case-by-case basis. The term
clear
means unequivocal. For example, the use of an intelligence test result alone would not constitute clear and convincing evidence. Clear and convincing evidence might include a description of assessments, including situational assessments and supported employment assessments, from service providers who have concluded that they would be unable to meet the individual's needs due to the severity of the individual's disability. The demonstration of “clear and convincing evidence” must include, if appropriate, a functional assessment of skill development activities, with any necessary supports (including assistive technology), in real life settings. (S. Rep. No. 357, 102d Cong., 2d. Sess. 37-38 (1992))
§ 361.43
Procedures for ineligibility determination.
If the State unit determines that an applicant is ineligible for vocational rehabilitation services or determines that an individual receiving services under an individualized plan for employment is no longer eligible for services, the State unit must—
(a) Make the determination only after providing an opportunity for full consultation with the individual or, as appropriate, with the individual's representative;
(b) Inform the individual in writing, supplemented as necessary by other appropriate modes of communication consistent with the informed choice of the individual, of the ineligibility determination, including the reasons for that determination, the requirements under this section, and the means by which the individual may express and seek remedy for any dissatisfaction, including the procedures for review of State unit personnel determinations in accordance with § 361.57;
(c) Provide the individual with a description of services available from a client assistance program established under 34 CFR part 370 and information on how to contact that program;
(d) Refer the individual—
(1) To other programs that are part of the one-stop service delivery system under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act that can address the individual's training or employment-related needs; or
(2) To Federal, State, or local programs or service providers, including,
as appropriate, independent living programs and extended employment providers, best suited to meet their rehabilitation needs, if the ineligibility determination is based on a finding that the individual has chosen not to pursue, or is incapable of achieving, an employment outcome as defined in § 361.5(c)(15).
(e) Review within 12 months and annually thereafter if requested by the individual or, if appropriate, by the individual's representative any ineligibility determination that is based on a finding that the individual is incapable of achieving an employment outcome. This review need not be conducted in situations in which the individual has refused it, the individual is no longer present in the State, the individual's whereabouts are unknown, or the individual's medical condition is rapidly progressive or terminal.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 102(a)(5) and (c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 722(a)(5)and (c))
§ 361.44
Closure without eligibility determination.
The designated State unit may not close an applicant's record of services prior to making an eligibility determination unless the applicant declines to participate in, or is unavailable to complete, an assessment for determining eligibility and priority for services, and the State unit has made a reasonable number of attempts to contact the applicant or, if appropriate, the applicant's representative to encourage the applicant's participation.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 361.45
Development of the individualized plan for employment.
(a)
General requirements.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that—
(1) An individualized plan for employment meeting the requirements of this section and § 361.46 is developed and implemented in a timely manner for each individual determined to be eligible for vocational rehabilitation services or, if the designated State unit is operating under an order of selection in accordance with § 361.36, for each eligible individual to whom the State unit is able to provide services; and
(2) Services will be provided in accordance with the provisions of the individualized plan for employment.
(b)
Purpose.
(1) The designated State unit must conduct an assessment for determining vocational rehabilitation needs, if appropriate, for each eligible individual or, if the State is operating under an order of selection, for each eligible individual to whom the State is able to provide services. The purpose of this assessment is to determine the employment outcome, and the nature and scope of vocational rehabilitation services to be included in the individualized plan for employment.
(2) The individualized plan for employment must be designed to achieve a specific employment outcome, as defined in § 361.5(c)(15), that is selected by the individual consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
(c)
Required information.
The State unit must provide the following information to each eligible individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative, in writing and, if appropriate, in the native language or mode of communication of the individual or the individual's representative:
(1)
Options for developing an individualized plan for employment.
Information on the available options for developing the individualized plan for employment, including the option that an eligible individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative may develop all or part of the individualized plan for employment—
(i) Without assistance from the State unit or other entity; or
(ii) With assistance from—
(A) A qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor employed by the State unit;
(B) A qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor who is not employed by the State unit;
(C) A disability advocacy organization; or
(D) Resources other than those in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(2)
Additional information.
Additional information to assist the eligible individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative in developing the individualized plan for employment, including—
(i) Information describing the full range of components that must be included in an individualized plan for employment;
(ii) As appropriate to each eligible individual—
(A) An explanation of agency guidelines and criteria for determining an eligible individual's financial commitments under an individualized plan for employment;
(B) Information on the availability of assistance in completing State unit forms required as part of the individualized plan for employment; and
(C) Additional information that the eligible individual requests or the State unit determines to be necessary to the development of the individualized plan for employment;
(iii) A description of the rights and remedies available to the individual, including, if appropriate, recourse to the processes described in § 361.57; and
(iv) A description of the availability of a client assistance program established under part 370 of this chapter and information on how to contact the client assistance program.
(3)
Individuals entitled to benefits under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act.
For individuals entitled to benefits under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act on the basis of a disability or blindness, the State unit must provide to the individual general information on additional supports and assistance for individuals with disabilities desiring to enter the workforce, including assistance with benefits planning.
(d)
Mandatory procedures.
The designated State unit must ensure that—
(1) The individualized plan for employment is a written document prepared on forms provided by the State unit;
(2) The individualized plan for employment is developed and implemented in a manner that gives eligible individuals the opportunity to exercise informed choice, consistent with § 361.52, in selecting—
(i) The employment outcome, including the employment setting;
(ii) The specific vocational rehabilitation services needed to achieve the employment outcome, including the settings in which services will be provided;
(iii) The entity or entities that will provide the vocational rehabilitation services; and
(iv) The methods available for procuring the services;
(3) The individualized plan for employment is—
(i) Agreed to and signed by the eligible individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative; and
(ii) Approved and signed by a qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor employed by the designated State unit;
(4) A copy of the individualized plan for employment and a copy of any amendments to the individualized plan for employment are provided to the eligible individual or, as appropriate, to the individual's representative, in writing and, if appropriate, in the native language or mode of communication of the individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative;
(5) The individualized plan for employment is reviewed at least annually by a qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor and the eligible individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative to assess the eligible individual's progress in achieving the identified employment outcome;
(6) The individualized plan for employment is amended, as necessary, by the individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative, in collaboration with a representative of the State unit or a qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor (to the extent determined to be appropriate by the individual), if there are substantive changes in the employment outcome, the vocational rehabilitation services to be provided, or the providers of the vocational rehabilitation services;
(7) Amendments to the individualized plan for employment do not take effect until agreed to and signed by the eligible individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative and by a qualified vocational rehabilitation
counselor employed by the designated State unit;
(8) The individualized plan for employment is amended, as necessary, to include the postemployment services and service providers that are necessary for the individual to maintain, advance in or regain employment, consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice; and
(9) An individualized plan for employment for a student with a disability is developed—
(i) In consideration of the student's individualized education program or 504 services, as applicable; and
(ii) In accordance with the plans, policies, procedures, and terms of the interagency agreement required under § 361.22.
(e)
Standards for developing the individualized plan for employment.
The individualized plan for employment must be developed as soon as possible, but not later than 90 days after the date of determination of eligibility, unless the State unit and the eligible individual agree to the extension of that deadline to a specific date by which the individualized plan for employment must be completed.
(f)
Data for preparing the individualized plan for employment.
(1)
Preparation without comprehensive assessment.
To the extent possible, the employment outcome and the nature and scope of rehabilitation services to be included in the individual's individualized plan for employment must be determined based on the data used for the assessment of eligibility and priority for services under § 361.42.
(2)
Preparation based on comprehensive assessment.
(i) If additional data are necessary to determine the employment outcome and the nature and scope of services to be included in the individualized plan for employment of an eligible individual, the State unit must conduct a comprehensive assessment of the unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice, including the need for supported employment services, of the eligible individual, in the most integrated setting possible, consistent with the informed choice of the individual in accordance with the provisions of § 361.5(c)(5)(ii).
(ii) In preparing the comprehensive assessment, the State unit must use, to the maximum extent possible and appropriate and in accordance with confidentiality requirements, existing information that is current as of the date of the development of the individualized plan for employment, including information—
(A) Available from other programs and providers, particularly information used by education officials and the Social Security Administration;
(B) Provided by the individual and the individual's family; and
(C) Obtained under the assessment for determining the individual's eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs.
(Authority: Sections 7(2)(B), 101(a)(9), 102(b), and 103(a)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(2)(B), 721(a)(9), 722(b), and 723(a)(1))
§ 361.46
Content of the individualized plan for employment.
(a)
Mandatory components.
Regardless of the approach in § 361.45(c)(1) that an eligible individual selects for purposes of developing the individualized plan for employment, each individualized plan for employment must—
(1) Include a description of the specific employment outcome, as defined in § 361.5(c)(15), that is chosen by the eligible individual and is consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, career interests, and informed choice consistent with the general goal of competitive integrated employment (except that in the case of an eligible individual who is a student or a youth with a disability, the description may be a description of the individual's projected post-school employment outcome);
(2) Include a description under § 361.48 of—
(i) These specific rehabilitation services needed to achieve the employment outcome, including, as appropriate, the provision of assistive technology devices, assistive technology services,
and personal assistance services, including training in the management of those services; and
(ii) In the case of a plan for an eligible individual that is a student or youth with a disability, the specific transition services and supports needed to achieve the individual's employment outcome or projected post-school employment outcome.
(3) Provide for services in the most integrated setting that is appropriate for the services involved and is consistent with the informed choice of the eligible individual;
(4) Include timelines for the achievement of the employment outcome and for the initiation of services;
(5) Include a description of the entity or entities chosen by the eligible individual or, as appropriate, the individual's representative that will provide the vocational rehabilitation services and the methods used to procure those services;
(6) Include a description of the criteria that will be used to evaluate progress toward achievement of the employment outcome; and
(7) Include the terms and conditions of the individualized plan for employment, including, as appropriate, information describing—
(i) The responsibilities of the designated State unit;
(ii) The responsibilities of the eligible individual, including—
(A) The responsibilities the individual will assume in relation to achieving the employment outcome;
(B) If applicable, the extent of the individual's participation in paying for the cost of services; and
(C) The responsibility of the individual with regard to applying for and securing comparable services and benefits as described in § 361.53; and
(iii) The responsibilities of other entities as the result of arrangements made pursuant to the comparable services or benefits requirements in § 361.53.
(b)
Supported employment requirements.
An individualized plan for employment for an individual with a most significant disability for whom an employment outcome in a supported employment setting has been determined to be appropriate must—
(1) Specify the supported employment services to be provided by the designated State unit;
(2) Specify the expected extended services needed, which may include natural supports;
(3) Identify the source of extended services or, to the extent that it is not possible to identify the source of extended services at the time the individualized plan for employment is developed, include a description of the basis for concluding that there is a reasonable expectation that those sources will become available;
(4) Provide for periodic monitoring to ensure that the individual is making satisfactory progress toward meeting the weekly work requirement established in the individualized plan for employment by the time of transition to extended services;
(5) Provide for the coordination of services provided under an individualized plan for employment with services provided under other individualized plans established under other Federal or State programs;
(6) To the extent that job skills training is provided, identify that the training will be provided on site; and
(7) Include placement in an integrated setting for the maximum number of hours possible based on the unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice of individuals with the most significant disabilities.
(c)
Post-employment services.
The individualized plan for employment for each individual must contain, as determined to be necessary, statements concerning—
(1) The expected need for post-employment services prior to closing the record of services of an individual who has achieved an employment outcome;
(2) A description of the terms and conditions for the provision of any post-employment services; and
(3) If appropriate, a statement of how post-employment services will be provided or arranged through other entities as the result of arrangements made pursuant to the comparable services or benefits requirements in § 361.53.
(d)
Coordination of services for students with disabilities.
The individualized plan for employment for a student with a
disability must be coordinated with the individualized education program or 504 services, as applicable, for that individual in terms of the goals, objectives, and services identified in the education program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 101(a)(8), 101(a)(9), and 102(b)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(8), 721(a)(9), and 722(b)(4))
§ 361.47
Record of services.
(a) The designated State unit must maintain for each applicant and eligible individual a record of services that includes, to the extent pertinent, the following documentation:
(1) If an applicant has been determined to be an eligible individual, documentation supporting that determination in accordance with the requirements under § 361.42.
(2) If an applicant or eligible individual receiving services under an individualized plan for employment has been determined to be ineligible, documentation supporting that determination in accordance with the requirements under § 361.43.
(3) Documentation that describes the justification for closing an applicant's or eligible individual's record of services if that closure is based on reasons other than ineligibility, including, as appropriate, documentation indicating that the State unit has satisfied the requirements in § 361.44.
(4) If an individual has been determined to be an individual with a significant disability or an individual with a most significant disability, documentation supporting that determination.
(5) If an individual with a significant disability requires an exploration of abilities, capabilities, and capacity to perform in realistic work situations through the use of trial work experiences to determine whether the individual is an eligible individual, documentation supporting the need for, and the plan relating to, that exploration and documentation regarding the periodic assessments carried out during the trial work experiences in accordance with the requirements under § 361.42(e).
(6) The individualized plan for employment, and any amendments to the individualized plan for employment, consistent with the requirements under § 361.46.
(7) Documentation describing the extent to which the applicant or eligible individual exercised informed choice regarding the provision of assessment services and the extent to which the eligible individual exercised informed choice in the development of the individualized plan for employment with respect to the selection of the specific employment outcome, the specific vocational rehabilitation services needed to achieve the employment outcome, the entity to provide the services, the employment setting, the settings in which the services will be provided, and the methods to procure the services.
(8) In the event that an individual's individualized plan for employment provides for vocational rehabilitation services in a non-integrated setting, a justification to support the need for the non-integrated setting.
(9) In the event that an individual obtains competitive employment, verification that the individual is compensated at or above the minimum wage and that the individual's wage and level of benefits are not less than that customarily paid by the employer for the same or similar work performed by non-disabled individuals in accordance with § 361.5(c)(9)(i).
(10) In the event an individual achieves an employment outcome in which the individual is compensated in accordance with section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act or the designated State unit closes the record of services of an individual in extended employment on the basis that the individual is unable to achieve an employment outcome consistent with § 361.5(c)(15) or that an eligible individual through informed choice chooses to remain in extended employment, documentation of the results of the semi-annual and annual reviews required under § 361.55, of the individual's input into those reviews, and of the individual's or, if appropriate, the individual's representative's acknowledgment that those reviews were conducted.
(11) Documentation concerning any action or decision resulting from a request by an individual under § 361.57 for a review of determinations made by designated State unit personnel.
(12) In the event that an applicant or eligible individual requests under § 361.38(c)(4) that documentation in the record of services be amended and the documentation is not amended, documentation of the request.
(13) In the event an individual is referred to another program through the State unit's information and referral system under § 361.37, including other components of the statewide workforce development system, documentation on the nature and scope of services provided by the designated State unit to the individual and on the referral itself, consistent with the requirements of § 361.37.
(14) In the event an individual's record of service is closed under § 361.56, documentation that demonstrates the services provided under the individual's individualized plan for employment contributed to the achievement of the employment outcome.
(15) In the event an individual's record of service is closed under § 361.56, documentation verifying that the provisions of § 361.56 have been satisfied.
(b) The State unit, in consultation with the State Rehabilitation Council if the State has a Council, must determine the type of documentation that the State unit must maintain for each applicant and eligible individual in order to meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(6), (9), (14), and (20) and 102(a), (b), and (d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(6), (9), (14), and (20), and 722(a), (b), and (d))
§ 361.48
Scope of vocational rehabilitation services for individuals with disabilities.
(a)
Pre-employment transition services.
Each State must ensure that the designated State unit, in collaboration with the local educational agencies involved, provide, or arrange for the provision of, pre-employment transition services for all students with disabilities, as defined in § 361.5(c)(51), in need of such services, without regard to the type of disability, from Federal funds reserved in accordance with § 361.65, and any funds made available from State, local, or private funding sources. Funds reserved and made available may be used for the required, authorized, and pre-employment transition coordination activities under paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) of this section.
(1)
Availability of services.
Pre-employment transition services must be made available Statewide to all students with disabilities, regardless of whether the student has applied or been determined eligible for vocational rehabilitation services.
(2)
Required activities.
The designated State unit must provide the following pre-employment transition services:
(i) Job exploration counseling;
(ii) Work-based learning experiences, which may include in-school or after school opportunities, or experience outside the traditional school setting (including internships), that is provided in an integrated environment in the community to the maximum extent possible;
(iii) Counseling on opportunities for enrollment in comprehensive transition or postsecondary educational programs at institutions of higher education;
(iv) Workplace readiness training to develop social skills and independent living; and
(v) Instruction in self-advocacy (including instruction in person-centered planning), which may include peer mentoring (including peer mentoring from individuals with disabilities working in competitive integrated employment).
(3)
Authorized activities.
Funds available and remaining after the provision of the required activities described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be used to improve the transition of students with disabilities from school to postsecondary education or an employment outcome by—
(i) Implementing effective strategies to increase the likelihood of independent living and inclusion in communities and competitive integrated workplaces;
(ii) Developing and improving strategies for individuals with intellectual
disabilities and individuals with significant disabilities to live independently; participate in postsecondary education experiences; and obtain, advance in and retain competitive integrated employment;
(iii) Providing instruction to vocational rehabilitation counselors, school transition personnel, and other persons supporting students with disabilities;
(iv) Disseminating information about innovative, effective, and efficient approaches to achieve the goals of this section;
(v) Coordinating activities with transition services provided by local educational agencies under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.
);
(vi) Applying evidence-based findings to improve policy, procedure, practice, and the preparation of personnel, in order to better achieve the goals of this section;
(vii) Developing model transition demonstration projects;
(viii) Establishing or supporting multistate or regional partnerships involving States, local educational agencies, designated State units, developmental disability agencies, private businesses, or other participants to achieve the goals of this section; and
(ix) Disseminating information and strategies to improve the transition to postsecondary activities of individuals who are members of traditionally unserved and underserved populations.
(4)
Pre-employment transition coordination.
Each local office of a designated State unit must carry out responsibilities consisting of—
(i) Attending individualized education program meetings for students with disabilities, when invited;
(ii) Working with the local workforce development boards, one-stop centers, and employers to develop work opportunities for students with disabilities, including internships, summer employment and other employment opportunities available throughout the school year, and apprenticeships;
(iii) Working with schools, including those carrying out activities under section 614(d) of the IDEA, to coordinate and ensure the provision of pre-employment transition services under this section;
(iv) When invited, attending person-centered planning meetings for individuals receiving services under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
); and
(b)
Services for individuals who have applied for or been determined eligible for vocational rehabilitation services.
As appropriate to the vocational rehabilitation needs of each individual and consistent with each individual's individualized plan for employment, the designated State unit must ensure that the following vocational rehabilitation services are available to assist the individual with a disability in preparing for, securing, retaining, advancing in or regaining an employment outcome that is consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice:
(1) Assessment for determining eligibility and priority for services by qualified personnel, including, if appropriate, an assessment by personnel skilled in rehabilitation technology, in accordance with § 361.42.
(2) Assessment for determining vocational rehabilitation needs by qualified personnel, including, if appropriate, an assessment by personnel skilled in rehabilitation technology, in accordance with § 361.45.
(3) Vocational rehabilitation counseling and guidance, including information and support services to assist an individual in exercising informed choice in accordance with § 361.52.
(4) Referral and other services necessary to assist applicants and eligible individuals to secure needed services from other agencies, including other components of the statewide workforce development system, in accordance with §§ 361.23, 361.24, and 361.37, and to advise those individuals about client assistance programs established under 34 CFR part 370.
(5) In accordance with the definition in § 361.5(c)(39), physical and mental restoration services, to the extent that financial support is not readily available from a source other than the designated State unit (such as through health insurance or a comparable service or benefit as defined in § 361.5(c)(10)).
(6) Vocational and other training services, including personal and vocational adjustment training, advanced training in, but not limited to, a field of science, technology, engineering, mathematics (including computer science), medicine, law, or business); books, tools, and other training materials, except that no training or training services in an institution of higher education (universities, colleges, community or junior colleges, vocational schools, technical institutes, or hospital schools of nursing or any other postsecondary education institution) may be paid for with funds under this part unless maximum efforts have been made by the State unit and the individual to secure grant assistance in whole or in part from other sources to pay for that training.
(7) Maintenance, in accordance with the definition of that term in § 361.5(c)(34).
(8) Transportation in connection with the provision of any vocational rehabilitation service and in accordance with the definition of that term in § 361.5(c)(57).
(9) Vocational rehabilitation services to family members, as defined in § 361.5(c)(23), of an applicant or eligible individual if necessary to enable the applicant or eligible individual to achieve an employment outcome.
(10) Interpreter services, including sign language and oral interpreter services, for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and tactile interpreting services for individuals who are deaf-blind provided by qualified personnel.
(11) Reader services, rehabilitation teaching services, and orientation and mobility services for individuals who are blind.
(12) Job-related services, including job search and placement assistance, job retention services, follow-up services, and follow-along services.
(13) Supported employment services in accordance with the definition of that term in § 361.5(c)(54).
(14) Personal assistance services in accordance with the definition of that term in § 361.5(c)(39).
(15) Post-employment services in accordance with the definition of that term in § 361.5(c)(42).
(16) Occupational licenses, tools, equipment, initial stocks, and supplies.
(17) Rehabilitation technology in accordance with the definition of that term in § 361.5(c)(45), including vehicular modification, telecommunications, sensory, and other technological aids and devices.
(18) Transition services for students and youth with disabilities, that facilitate the transition from school to postsecondary life, such as achievement of an employment outcome in competitive integrated employment, or pre-employment transition services for students.
(19) Technical assistance and other consultation services to conduct market analyses, develop business plans, and otherwise provide resources, to the extent those resources are authorized to be provided through the statewide workforce development system, to eligible individuals who are pursuing self-employment or telecommuting or establishing a small business operation as an employment outcome.
(20) Customized employment in accordance with the definition of that term in § 361.5(c)(11).
(21) Other goods and services determined necessary for the individual with a disability to achieve an employment outcome.
(Authority: Sections 7(37), 12(c), 103(a), and 113 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(37), 709(c), 723(a), and 733)
§ 361.49
Scope of vocational rehabilitation services for groups of individuals with disabilities.
(a) The designated State unit may provide for the following vocational rehabilitation services for the benefit of groups of individuals with disabilities:
(1) The establishment, development, or improvement of a public or other nonprofit community rehabilitation program that is used to provide vocational rehabilitation services that promote integration into the community and prepare individuals with disabilities for competitive integrated employment, including supported employment and customized employment, and under special circumstances, the construction of a facility for a public or nonprofit community rehabilitation
program as defined in §§ 361.5(c)(10), 361.5(c)(16) and 361.5(c)(17). Examples of special circumstances include the destruction by natural disaster of the only available center serving an area or a State determination that construction is necessary in a rural area because no other public agencies or private nonprofit organizations are currently able to provide vocational rehabilitation services to individuals.
(2) Telecommunications systems that have the potential for substantially improving vocational rehabilitation service delivery methods and developing appropriate programming to meet the particular needs of individuals with disabilities, including telephone, television, video description services, satellite, tactile-vibratory devices, and similar systems, as appropriate.
(3) Special services to provide nonvisual access to information for individuals who are blind, including the use of telecommunications, Braille, sound recordings, or other appropriate media; captioned television, films, or video cassettes for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing; tactile materials for individuals who are deaf-blind; and other special services that provide information through tactile, vibratory, auditory, and visual media.
(4) Technical assistance to businesses that are seeking to employ individuals with disabilities.
(5) In the case of any small business enterprise operated by individuals with significant disabilities under the supervision of the designated State unit, including enterprises established under the Randolph-Sheppard program, management services and supervision provided by the State unit along with the acquisition by the State unit of vending facilities or other equipment, initial stocks and supplies, and initial operating expenses, in accordance with the following requirements:
(i)
Management services and supervision
includes inspection, quality control, consultation, accounting, regulating, in-service training, and related services provided on a systematic basis to support and improve small business enterprises operated by individuals with significant disabilities. Management services and supervision may be provided throughout the operation of the small business enterprise.
(ii)
Initial stocks and supplies
includes those items necessary to the establishment of a new business enterprise during the initial establishment period, which may not exceed six months.
(iii) Costs of establishing a small business enterprise may include operational costs during the initial establishment period, which may not exceed six months.
(iv) If the designated State unit provides for these services, it must ensure that only individuals with significant disabilities will be selected to participate in this supervised program.
(v) If the designated State unit provides for these services and chooses to set aside funds from the proceeds of the operation of the small business enterprises, the State unit must maintain a description of the methods used in setting aside funds and the purposes for which funds are set aside. Funds may be used only for small business enterprises purposes, and benefits that are provided to operators from set-aside funds must be provided on an equitable basis.
(6) Consultation and technical assistance services to assist State educational agencies and local educational agencies in planning for the transition of students and youth with disabilities from school to postsecondary life, including employment.
(7) Transition services to youth with disabilities and students with disabilities who may not have yet applied or been determined eligible for vocational rehabilitation services, for which a vocational rehabilitation counselor works in concert with educational agencies, providers of job training programs, providers of services under the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
), entities designated by the State to provide services for individuals with developmental disabilities, centers for independent living (as defined in section 702 of the Act), housing and transportation authorities, workforce development systems, and businesses and employers. These specific transition services are to benefit a group of students with disabilities or
youth with disabilities and are not individualized services directly related to an individualized plan for employment goal. Services may include, but are not limited to, group tours of universities and vocational training programs, employer or business site visits to learn about career opportunities, career fairs coordinated with workforce development and employers to facilitate mock interviews and resume writing, and other general services applicable to groups of students with disabilities and youth with disabilities.
(8) The establishment, development, or improvement of assistive technology demonstration, loan, reutilization, or financing programs in coordination with activities authorized under the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
) to promote access to assistive technology for individuals with disabilities and employers.
(9) Support (including, as appropriate, tuition) for advanced training in a field of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (including computer science), medicine, law, or business, provided after an individual eligible to receive services under this title demonstrates—
(i) Such eligibility;
(ii) Previous completion of a bachelor's degree program at an institution of higher education or scheduled completion of such a degree program prior to matriculating in the program for which the individual proposes to use the support; and
(iii) Acceptance by a program at an institution of higher education in the United States that confers a master's degree in a field of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (including computer science), a juris doctor degree, a master of business administration degree, or a doctor of medicine degree, except that—
(A) No training provided at an institution of higher education may be paid for with funds under this program unless maximum efforts have been made by the designated State unit to secure grant assistance, in whole or in part, from other sources to pay for such training; and
(B) Nothing in this paragraph prevents any designated State unit from providing similar support to individuals with disabilities within the State who are eligible to receive support under this title and who are not served under this section.
(b) If the designated State unit provides for vocational rehabilitation services for groups of individuals, it must—
(1) Develop and maintain written policies covering the nature and scope of each of the vocational rehabilitation services it provides and the criteria under which each service is provided; and
(2) Maintain information to ensure the proper and efficient administration of those services in the form and detail and at the time required by the Secretary, including the types of services provided, the costs of those services, and, to the extent feasible, estimates of the numbers of individuals benefiting from those services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(6)(A), and 103(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(6), and 723(b))
§ 361.50
Written policies governing the provision of services for individuals with disabilities.
(a)
Policies.
The State unit must develop and maintain written policies covering the nature and scope of each of the vocational rehabilitation services specified in § 361.48 and the criteria under which each service is provided. The policies must ensure that the provision of services is based on the rehabilitation needs of each individual as identified in that individual's individualized plan for employment and is consistent with the individual's informed choice. The written policies may not establish any arbitrary limits on the nature and scope of vocational rehabilitation services to be provided to the individual to achieve an employment outcome. The policies must be developed in accordance with the following provisions:
(b)
Out-of-State services.
(1) The State unit may establish a preference for in-State services, provided that the preference does not effectively deny an individual a necessary service. If the individual chooses an out-of-State service at a higher cost than an in-State service, if either service would meet
the individual's rehabilitation needs, the designated State unit is not responsible for those costs in excess of the cost of the in-State service.
(2) The State unit may not establish policies that effectively prohibit the provision of out-of-State services.
(c)
Payment for services.
(1) The State unit must establish and maintain written policies to govern the rates of payment for all purchased vocational rehabilitation services.
(2) The State unit may establish a fee schedule designed to ensure a reasonable cost to the program for each service, if the schedule is—
(i) Not so low as to effectively deny an individual a necessary service; and
(ii) Not absolute and permits exceptions so that individual needs can be addressed.
(3) The State unit may not place absolute dollar limits on specific service categories or on the total services provided to an individual.
(d)
Duration of services.
(1) The State unit may establish reasonable time periods for the provision of services provided that the time periods are—
(i) Not so short as to effectively deny an individual a necessary service; and
(ii) Not absolute and permit exceptions so that individual needs can be addressed.
(2) The State unit may not establish absolute time limits on the provision of specific services or on the provision of services to an individual. The duration of each service needed by an individual must be determined on an individual basis and reflected in that individual's individualized plan for employment.
(e)
Authorization of services.
The State unit must establish policies related to the timely authorization of services, including any conditions under which verbal authorization can be given.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(6) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended and 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(6))
§ 361.51
Standards for facilities and providers of services.
(a)
Accessibility of facilities.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that any facility used in connection with the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services under this part meets program accessibility requirements consistent with the requirements, as applicable, of the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 504 of the Act, and the regulations implementing these laws.
(b)
Affirmative action.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that community rehabilitation programs that receive assistance under part B of title I of the Act take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities covered under and on the same terms and conditions as in section 503 of the Act.
(c)
Special communication needs personnel.
The designated State unit must ensure that providers of vocational rehabilitation services are able to communicate—
(1) In the native language of applicants and eligible individuals who have limited English proficiency; and
(2) By using appropriate modes of communication used by applicants and eligible individuals.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(6)(B) and (C) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(6)(B) and (C))
§ 361.52
Informed choice.
(a)
General provision.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that applicants and recipients of services or, as appropriate, their representatives are provided information and support services to assist applicants and recipients of services in exercising informed choice throughout the rehabilitation process consistent with the provisions of section 102(d) of the Act and the requirements of this section.
(b)
Written policies and procedures.
The designated State unit, in consultation with its State Rehabilitation Council, if it has a Council, must develop and implement written policies and procedures that enable an applicant or recipient of services to exercise informed
choice throughout the vocational rehabilitation process. These policies and procedures must provide for—
(1) Informing each applicant and recipient of services (including students with disabilities who are making the transition from programs under the responsibility of an educational agency to programs under the responsibility of the designated State unit and including youth with disabilities), through appropriate modes of communication, about the availability of and opportunities to exercise informed choice, including the availability of support services for individuals with cognitive or other disabilities who require assistance in exercising informed choice throughout the vocational rehabilitation process;
(2) Assisting applicants and recipients of services in exercising informed choice in decisions related to the provision of assessment services;
(3) Developing and implementing flexible procurement policies and methods that facilitate the provision of vocational rehabilitation services and that afford recipients of services meaningful choices among the methods used to procure vocational rehabilitation services;
(4) Assisting eligible individuals or, as appropriate, the individuals' representatives, in acquiring information that enables them to exercise informed choice in the development of their individualized plans for employment with respect to the selection of the—
(i) Employment outcome;
(ii) Specific vocational rehabilitation services needed to achieve the employment outcome;
(iii) Entity that will provide the services;
(iv) Employment setting and the settings in which the services will be provided; and
(v) Methods available for procuring the services; and
(5) Ensuring that the availability and scope of informed choice is consistent with the obligations of the designated State agency under this part.
(c)
Information and assistance in the selection of vocational rehabilitation services and service providers.
In assisting an applicant and eligible individual in exercising informed choice during the assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs and during development of the individualized plan for employment, the designated State unit must provide the individual or the individual's representative, or assist the individual or the individual's representative in acquiring, information necessary to make an informed choice about the specific vocational rehabilitation services, including the providers of those services, that are needed to achieve the individual's employment outcome. This information must include, at a minimum, information relating to the—
(1) Cost, accessibility, and duration of potential services;
(2) Consumer satisfaction with those services to the extent that information relating to consumer satisfaction is available;
(3) Qualifications of potential service providers;
(4) Types of services offered by the potential providers;
(5) Degree to which services are provided in integrated settings; and
(6) Outcomes achieved by individuals working with service providers, to the extent that such information is available.
(d)
Methods or sources of information.
In providing or assisting the individual or the individual's representative in acquiring the information required under paragraph (c) of this section, the State unit may use, but is not limited to, the following methods or sources of information:
(1) Lists of services and service providers.
(2) Periodic consumer satisfaction surveys and reports.
(3) Referrals to other consumers, consumer groups, or disability advisory councils qualified to discuss the services or service providers.
(4) Relevant accreditation, certification, or other information relating to the qualifications of service providers.
(5) Opportunities for individuals to visit or experience various work and service provider settings.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(19), 102(b)(2)(B), and 102(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(19), 722(b)(2)(B), and 722(d))
§ 361.53
Comparable services and benefits.
(a)
Determination of availability.
The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that prior to providing an accommodation or auxiliary aid or service or any vocational rehabilitation services, except those services listed in paragraph (b) of this section, to an eligible individual or to members of the individual's family, the State unit must determine whether comparable services and benefits, as defined in § 361.5(c)(8), exist under any other program and whether those services and benefits are available to the individual unless such a determination would interrupt or delay—
(1) The progress of the individual toward achieving the employment outcome identified in the individualized plan for employment;
(2) An immediate job placement; or
(3) The provision of vocational rehabilitation services to any individual who is determined to be at extreme medical risk, based on medical evidence provided by an appropriate qualified medical professional.
(b)
Exempt services.
The following vocational rehabilitation services described in § 361.48(b) are exempt from a determination of the availability of comparable services and benefits under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs.
(2) Counseling and guidance, including information and support services to assist an individual in exercising informed choice.
(3) Referral and other services to secure needed services from other agencies, including other components of the statewide workforce development system, if those services are not available under this part.
(4) Job-related services, including job search and placement assistance, job retention services, follow-up services, and follow-along services.
(5) Rehabilitation technology, including telecommunications, sensory, and other technological aids and devices.
(6) Post-employment services consisting of the services listed under paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(c)
Provision of services.
(1) If comparable services or benefits exist under any other program and are available to the individual at the time needed to ensure the progress of the individual toward achieving the employment outcome in the individual's individualized plan for employment, the designated State unit must use those comparable services or benefits to meet, in whole or part, the costs of the vocational rehabilitation services.
(2) If comparable services or benefits exist under any other program, but are not available to the individual at the time needed to ensure the progress of the individual toward achieving the employment outcome specified in the individualized plan for employment, the designated State unit must provide vocational rehabilitation services until those comparable services and benefits become available.
(d)
Interagency coordination.
(1) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the Governor, in consultation with the entity in the State responsible for the vocational rehabilitation program and other appropriate agencies, will ensure that an interagency agreement or other mechanism for interagency coordination takes effect between the designated State vocational rehabilitation unit and any appropriate public entity, including the State entity responsible for administering the State Medicaid program, a public institution of higher education, and a component of the statewide workforce development system, to ensure the provision of vocational rehabilitation services, and, if appropriate, accommodations or auxiliary aids and services, (other than those services listed in paragraph (b) of this section) that are included in the individualized plan for employment of
an eligible individual, including the provision of those vocational rehabilitation services (including, if appropriate, accommodations or auxiliary aids and services) during the pendency of any interagency dispute in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section.
(2) The Governor may meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section through—
(i) A State statute or regulation;
(ii) A signed agreement between the respective officials of the public entities that clearly identifies the responsibilities of each public entity for the provision of the services; or
(iii) Another appropriate mechanism as determined by the designated State vocational rehabilitation unit.
(3) The interagency agreement or other mechanism for interagency coordination must include the following:
(i)
Agency financial responsibility.
An identification of, or description of a method for defining, the financial responsibility of the designated State unit and other public entities for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services, and, if appropriate, accommodations or auxiliary aids and services other than those listed in paragraph (b) of this section and a provision stating the financial responsibility of the public entity for providing those services.
(ii)
Conditions, terms, and procedures of reimbursement.
Information specifying the conditions, terms, and procedures under which the designated State unit must be reimbursed by the other public entities for providing vocational rehabilitation services, and accommodations or auxiliary aids and services based on the terms of the interagency agreement or other mechanism for interagency coordination.
(iii)
Interagency disputes.
Information specifying procedures for resolving interagency disputes under the interagency agreement or other mechanism for interagency coordination, including procedures under which the designated State unit may initiate proceedings to secure reimbursement from other public entities or otherwise implement the provisions of the agreement or mechanism.
(iv)
Procedures for coordination of services.
Information specifying policies and procedures for public entities to determine and identify interagency coordination responsibilities of each public entity to promote the coordination and timely delivery of vocational rehabilitation services, and accommodations or auxiliary aids and services, other than those listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Responsibilities under other law.
(1) If a public entity (other than the designated State unit) is obligated under Federal law (such as the Americans with Disabilities Act, section 504 of the Act, or section 188 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act) or State law, or assigned responsibility under State policy or an interagency agreement established under this section, to provide or pay for any services considered to be vocational rehabilitation services (
e.g.,
interpreter services under § 361.48(j)), and, if appropriate, accommodations or auxiliary aids and services other than those services listed in paragraph (b) of this section, the public entity must fulfill that obligation or responsibility through—
(i) The terms of the interagency agreement or other requirements of this section;
(ii) Providing or paying for the service directly or by contract; or
(iii) Other arrangement.
(2) If a public entity other than the designated State unit fails to provide or pay for vocational rehabilitation services, and, if appropriate, accommodations or auxiliary aids and services for an eligible individual as established under this section, the designated State unit must provide or pay for those services to the individual and may claim reimbursement for the services from the public entity that failed to provide or pay for those services. The public entity must reimburse the designated State unit pursuant to the terms of the interagency agreement or other mechanism described in paragraph (d) of this section in accordance with the procedures established in the
agreement or mechanism pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(8))
§ 361.54
Participation of individuals in cost of services based on financial need.
(a)
No Federal requirement.
There is no Federal requirement that the financial need of individuals be considered in the provision of vocational rehabilitation services.
(b)
State unit requirements.
(1) The State unit may choose to consider the financial need of eligible individuals or individuals who are receiving services through trial work experiences under § 361.42(e) for purposes of determining the extent of their participation in the costs of vocational rehabilitation services, other than those services identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) If the State unit chooses to consider financial need—
(i) It must maintain written policies—
(A) Explaining the method for determining the financial need of an eligible individual; and
(B) Specifying the types of vocational rehabilitation services for which the unit has established a financial needs test;
(ii) The policies must be applied uniformly to all individuals in similar circumstances;
(iii) The policies may require different levels of need for different geographic regions in the State, but must be applied uniformly to all individuals within each geographic region; and
(iv) The policies must ensure that the level of an individual's participation in the cost of vocational rehabilitation services is—
(A) Reasonable;
(B) Based on the individual's financial need, including consideration of any disability-related expenses paid by the individual; and
(C) Not so high as to effectively deny the individual a necessary service.
(3) The designated State unit may not apply a financial needs test, or require the financial participation of the individual—
(i) As a condition for furnishing the following vocational rehabilitation services:
(A) Assessment for determining eligibility and priority for services under § 361.48(b)(1), except those non-assessment services that are provided to an individual with a significant disability during either an exploration of the individual's abilities, capabilities, and capacity to perform in work situations through the use of trial work experiences under § 361.42(e).
(B) Assessment for determining vocational rehabilitation needs under § 361.48(b)(2).
(C) Vocational rehabilitation counseling and guidance under § 361.48(b)(3).
(D) Referral and other services under § 361.48(b)(4).
(E) Job-related services under § 361.48(b)(12).
(F) Personal assistance services under § 361.48(b)(14).
(G) Any auxiliary aid or service (
e.g.,
interpreter services under § 361.48(b)(10), reader services under § 361.48(b)(11)) that an individual with a disability requires under section 504 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 794) or the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101,
et seq.
), or regulations implementing those laws, in order for the individual to participate in the vocational rehabilitation program as authorized under this part; or
(ii) As a condition for furnishing any vocational rehabilitation service if the individual in need of the service has been determined eligible for Social Security benefits under titles II or XVI of the Social Security Act.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 361.55
Semi-annual and annual review of individuals in extended employment and other employment under special certificate provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(a) The vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan must assure that the designated State unit conducts a semi-annual review and reevaluation for the first two years of such employment and annually thereafter, in accordance
with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section for an individual with a disability served under this part—
(1) Who has a record of service, as described in § 361.47, as either an applicant or eligible individual under the vocational rehabilitation program; and
(2)(i) Who has achieved employment in which the individual is compensated in accordance with section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act; or
(ii) Who is in extended employment, including those individuals whose record of service is closed while the individual is in extended employment on the basis that the individual is unable to achieve an employment outcome consistent with § 361.5(c)(15) or that the individual made an informed choice to remain in extended employment.
(b) For each individual with a disability who meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section, the designated State unit must—
(1) Semi-annually review and reevaluate the status of each individual for two years after the individual's record of services is closed (and annually thereafter) to determine the interests, priorities, and needs of the individual with respect to competitive integrated employment or training for competitive integrated employment;
(2) Enable the individual or, if appropriate, the individual's representative to provide input into the review and reevaluation and must document that input in the record of services, consistent with § 361.47(a)(10), with the individual's or, as appropriate, the individual's representative's signed acknowledgment that the review and reevaluation have been conducted; and
(3) Make maximum efforts, including identifying and providing vocational rehabilitation services, reasonable accommodations, and other necessary support services, to assist the individual in engaging in competitive integrated employment as defined in § 361.5(c)(9).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(14) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(14))
§ 361.56
Requirements for closing the record of services of an individual who has achieved an employment outcome.
The record of services of an individual who has achieved an employment outcome may be closed only if all of the following requirements are met:
(a)
Employment outcome achieved.
The individual has achieved the employment outcome that is described in the individual's individualized plan for employment in accordance with § 361.46(a)(1) and is consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
(b)
Employment outcome maintained.
The individual has maintained the employment outcome for an appropriate period of time, but not less than 90 days, necessary to ensure the stability of the employment outcome, and the individual no longer needs vocational rehabilitation services.
(c)
Satisfactory outcome.
At the end of the appropriate period under paragraph (b) of this section, the individual and the qualified rehabilitation counselor employed by the designated State unit consider the employment outcome to be satisfactory and agree that the individual is performing well in the employment.
(d)
Post-employment services.
The individual is informed through appropriate modes of communication of the availability of post-employment services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(6), and 106(a)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(6), and 726(a)(2))
§ 361.57
Review of determinations made by designated State unit personnel.
(a)
Procedures.
The designated State unit must develop and implement procedures to ensure that an applicant or recipient of services who is dissatisfied with any determination made by personnel of the designated State unit that affects the provision of vocational rehabilitation services may request, or, if appropriate, may request through the individual's representative, a timely review of that determination. The procedures must be in accordance with
paragraphs (b) through (k) of this section:
(b)
General requirements.
(1)
Notification.
Procedures established by the State unit under this section must provide an applicant or recipient or, as appropriate, the individual's representative notice of—
(i) The right to obtain review of State unit determinations that affect the provision of vocational rehabilitation services through an impartial due process hearing under paragraph (e) of this section;
(ii) The right to pursue mediation under paragraph (d) of this section with respect to determinations made by designated State unit personnel that affect the provision of vocational rehabilitation services to an applicant or recipient;
(iii) The names and addresses of individuals with whom requests for mediation or due process hearings may be filed;
(iv) The manner in which a mediator or impartial hearing officer may be selected consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section; and
(v) The availability of the client assistance program, established under 34 CFR part 370, to assist the applicant or recipient during mediation sessions or impartial due process hearings.
(2)
Timing.
Notice described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be provided in writing—
(i) At the time the individual applies for vocational rehabilitation services under this part;
(ii) At the time the individual is assigned to a category in the State's order of selection, if the State has established an order of selection under § 361.36;
(iii) At the time the individualized plan for employment is developed; and
(iv) Whenever vocational rehabilitation services for an individual are reduced, suspended, or terminated.
(3)
Evidence and representation.
Procedures established under this section must—
(i) Provide an applicant or recipient or, as appropriate, the individual's representative with an opportunity to submit during mediation sessions or due process hearings evidence and other information that supports the applicant's or recipient's position; and
(ii) Allow an applicant or recipient to be represented during mediation sessions or due process hearings by counsel or other advocate selected by the applicant or recipient.
(4)
Impact on provision of services.
The State unit may not institute a suspension, reduction, or termination of vocational rehabilitation services being provided to an applicant or recipient, including evaluation and assessment services and individualized plan for employment development, pending a resolution through mediation, pending a decision by a hearing officer or reviewing official, or pending informal resolution under this section unless—
(i) The individual or, in appropriate cases, the individual's representative requests a suspension, reduction, or termination of services; or
(ii) The State agency has evidence that the services have been obtained through misrepresentation, fraud, collusion, or criminal conduct on the part of the individual or the individual's representative.
(5)
Ineligibility.
Applicants who are found ineligible for vocational rehabilitation services and previously eligible individuals who are determined to be no longer eligible for vocational rehabilitation services pursuant to § 361.43 are permitted to challenge the determinations of ineligibility under the procedures described in this section.
(c)
Informal dispute resolution.
The State unit may develop an informal process for resolving a request for review without conducting mediation or a formal hearing. A State's informal process must not be used to deny the right of an applicant or recipient to a hearing under paragraph (e) of this section or any other right provided under this part, including the right to pursue mediation under paragraph (d) of this section. If informal resolution under this paragraph or mediation under paragraph (d) of this section is not successful in resolving the dispute within the time period established under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a formal hearing must be conducted within that same time period, unless the parties agree to a specific extension of time.
(d)
Mediation.
(1) The State must establish and implement procedures, as required under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, to allow an applicant or recipient and the State unit to resolve disputes involving State unit determinations that affect the provision of vocational rehabilitation services through a mediation process that must be made available, at a minimum, whenever an applicant or recipient or, as appropriate, the individual's representative requests an impartial due process hearing under this section.
(2) Mediation procedures established by the State unit under paragraph (d) of this section must ensure that—
(i) Participation in the mediation process is voluntary on the part of the applicant or recipient, as appropriate, and on the part of the State unit;
(ii) Use of the mediation process is not used to deny or delay the applicant's or recipient's right to pursue resolution of the dispute through an impartial hearing held within the time period specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section or any other rights provided under this part. At any point during the mediation process, either party or the mediator may elect to terminate the mediation. In the event mediation is terminated, either party may pursue resolution through an impartial hearing;
(iii) The mediation process is conducted by a qualified and impartial mediator, as defined in § 361.5(c)(43), who must be selected from a list of qualified and impartial mediators maintained by the State—
(A) On a random basis;
(B) By agreement between the director of the designated State unit and the applicant or recipient or, as appropriate, the recipient's representative; or
(C) In accordance with a procedure established in the State for assigning mediators, provided this procedure ensures the neutrality of the mediator assigned; and
(iv) Mediation sessions are scheduled and conducted in a timely manner and are held in a location and manner that is convenient to the parties to the dispute.
(3) Discussions that occur during the mediation process must be kept confidential and may not be used as evidence in any subsequent due process hearings or civil proceedings, and the parties to the mediation process may be required to sign a confidentiality pledge prior to the commencement of the process.
(4) An agreement reached by the parties to the dispute in the mediation process must be described in a written mediation agreement that is developed by the parties with the assistance of the qualified and impartial mediator and signed by both parties. Copies of the agreement must be sent to both parties.
(5) The costs of the mediation process must be paid by the State. The State is not required to pay for any costs related to the representation of an applicant or recipient authorized under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(e)
Impartial due process hearings.
The State unit must establish and implement formal review procedures, as required under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, that provide that—
(1) Hearing conducted by an impartial hearing officer, selected in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, must be held within 60 days of an applicant's or recipient 's request for review of a determination made by personnel of the State unit that affects the provision of vocational rehabilitation services to the individual, unless informal resolution or a mediation agreement is achieved prior to the 60th day or the parties agree to a specific extension of time;
(2) In addition to the rights described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the applicant or recipient or, if appropriate, the individual's representative must be given the opportunity to present witnesses during the hearing and to examine all witnesses and other relevant sources of information and evidence;
(3) The impartial hearing officer must—
(i) Make a decision based on the provisions of the approved vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, the Act, Federal vocational rehabilitation regulations, and State regulations and policies that are consistent with Federal requirements; and
(ii) Provide to the individual or, if appropriate, the individual's representative and to the State unit a full written report of the findings and grounds for the decision within 30 days of the completion of the hearing; and
(4) The hearing officer's decision is final, except that a party may request an impartial review under paragraph (g)(1) of this section if the State has established procedures for that review, and a party involved in a hearing may bring a civil action under paragraph (i) of this section.
(f)
Selection of impartial hearing officers.
The impartial hearing officer for a particular case must be selected—
(1) From a list of qualified impartial hearing officers maintained by the State unit. Impartial hearing officers included on the list must be—
(i) Identified by the State unit if the State unit is an independent commission; or
(ii) Jointly identified by the State unit and the State Rehabilitation Council if the State has a Council; and
(2)(i) On a random basis; or
(ii) By agreement between the director of the designated State unit and the applicant or recipient or, as appropriate, the individual's representative.
(g)
Administrative review of hearing officer's decision.
The State may establish procedures to enable a party who is dissatisfied with the decision of the impartial hearing officer to seek an impartial administrative review of the decision under paragraph (e)(3) of this section in accordance with the following requirements:
(1) A request for administrative review under paragraph (g) of this section must be made within 20 days of the mailing of the impartial hearing officer's decision.
(2) Administrative review of the hearing officer's decision must be conducted by—
(i) The chief official of the designated State agency if the State has established both a designated State agency and a designated State unit under § 361.13(b); or
(ii) An official from the office of the Governor.
(3) The reviewing official described in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section—
(i) Provides both parties with an opportunity to submit additional evidence and information relevant to a final decision concerning the matter under review;
(ii) May not overturn or modify the hearing officer's decision, or any part of that decision, that supports the position of the applicant or recipient unless the reviewing official concludes, based on clear and convincing evidence, that the decision of the impartial hearing officer is clearly erroneous on the basis of being contrary to the approved vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, the Act, Federal vocational rehabilitation regulations, or State regulations and policies that are consistent with Federal requirements;
(iii) Makes an independent, final decision following a review of the entire hearing record and provides the decision in writing, including a full report of the findings and the statutory, regulatory, or policy grounds for the decision, to the applicant or recipient or, as appropriate, the individual's representative and to the State unit within 30 days of the request for administrative review under paragraph (g)(1) of this section; and
(iv) May not delegate the responsibility for making the final decision under paragraph (g) of this section to any officer or employee of the designated State unit.
(4) The reviewing official's decision under paragraph (g) of this section is final unless either party brings a civil action under paragraph (i) of this section.
(h)
Implementation of final decisions.
If a party brings a civil action under paragraph (h) of this section to challenge the final decision of a hearing officer under paragraph (e) of this section or to challenge the final decision of a State reviewing official under paragraph (g) of this section, the final decision of the hearing officer or State reviewing official must be implemented pending review by the court.
(i)
Civil action.
(1) Any party who disagrees with the findings and decision of an impartial hearing officer under paragraph (e) of this section in a State that has not established administrative review procedures under paragraph (g)
of this section and any party who disagrees with the findings and decision under paragraph (g)(3)(iii) of this section have a right to bring a civil action with respect to the matter in dispute. The action may be brought in any State court of competent jurisdiction or in a district court of the United States of competent jurisdiction without regard to the amount in controversy.
(2) In any action brought under paragraph (i) of this section, the court—
(i) Receives the records related to the impartial due process hearing and the records related to the administrative review process, if applicable;
(ii) Hears additional evidence at the request of a party; and
(iii) Basing its decision on the preponderance of the evidence, grants the relief that the court determines to be appropriate.
(j)
State fair hearing board.
A fair hearing board as defined in § 361.5(c)(21) is authorized to carry out the responsibilities of the impartial hearing officer under paragraph (e) of this section in accordance with the following criteria:
(1) The fair hearing board may conduct due process hearings either collectively or by assigning responsibility for conducting the hearing to one or more members of the fair hearing board.
(2) The final decision issued by the fair hearing board following a hearing under paragraph (j)(1) of this section must be made collectively by, or by a majority vote of, the fair hearing board.
(3) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section that relate to due process hearings and of paragraphs (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this section do not apply to fair hearing boards under this paragraph (j).
(k)
Data collection.
(1) The director of the designated State unit must collect and submit, at a minimum, the following data to the Secretary for inclusion each year in the annual report to Congress under section 13 of the Act:
(i) A copy of the standards used by State reviewing officials for reviewing decisions made by impartial hearing officers under this section.
(ii) The number of mediations held, including the number of mediation agreements reached.
(iii) The number of hearings and reviews sought from impartial hearing officers and State reviewing officials, including the type of complaints and the issues involved.
(iv) The number of hearing officer decisions that were not reviewed by administrative reviewing officials.
(v) The number of hearing decisions that were reviewed by State reviewing officials and, based on these reviews, the number of hearing decisions that were—
(A) Sustained in favor of an applicant or recipient;
(B) Sustained in favor of the designated State unit;
(C) Reversed in whole or in part in favor of the applicant or recipient; and
(D) Reversed in whole or in part in favor of the State unit.
(2) The State unit director also must collect and submit to the Secretary copies of all final decisions issued by impartial hearing officers under paragraph (e) of this section and by State review officials under paragraph (g) of this section.
(3) The confidentiality of records of applicants and recipients maintained by the State unit may not preclude the access of the Secretary to those records for the purposes described in this section.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 102(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 722(c))

# Subpart C—Financing of State Vocational Rehabilitation Programs
§ 361.60
Matching requirements.
(a)
Federal share
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Federal share for expenditures made by the State under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, including expenditures for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services and the administration of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, is 78.7 percent.
(2)
Construction projects.
The Federal share for expenditures made for the construction of a facility for community rehabilitation program purposes may not be more than 50 percent of the total cost of the project.
(b)
Non-Federal share
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, expenditures made under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan to meet the non-Federal share under this section must be consistent with the provisions of 2 CFR 200.306(b).
(2)
Third party in-kind contributions.
Third party in-kind contributions specified in 2 CFR 200.306(b) may not be used to meet the non-Federal share under this section.
(3)
Contributions by private entities.
Expenditures made from those cash contributions provided by private organizations, agencies, or individuals and that are deposited in the State agency's account or, if applicable, sole local agency's account, in accordance with State law prior to their expenditure and that are earmarked, under a condition imposed by the contributor, may be used as part of the non-Federal share under this section if the funds are earmarked for—
(i) Meeting in whole or in part the State's share for establishing a community rehabilitation program or constructing a particular facility for community rehabilitation program purposes;
(ii) Particular geographic areas within the State for any purpose under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, other than those described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, in accordance with the following criteria:
(A) Before funds that are earmarked for a particular geographic area may be used as part of the non-Federal share, the State must notify the Secretary that the State cannot provide the full non-Federal share without using these funds.
(B) Funds that are earmarked for a particular geographic area may be used as part of the non-Federal share without requesting a waiver of statewideness under § 361.26.
(C) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, all Federal funds must be used on a statewide basis consistent with § 361.25, unless a waiver of statewideness is obtained under § 361.26; and
(iii) Any other purpose under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan, provided the expenditures do not benefit in any way the donor, employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or her immediate family, his or her partner, an individual with whom the donor has a close personal relationship, or an individual, entity, or organization with whom the donor shares a financial or other interest. The Secretary does not consider a donor's receipt from the State unit of a subaward or contract with funds allotted under this part to be a benefit for the purposes of this paragraph if the subaward or contract is awarded under the State's regular competitive procedures.
(Authority: Sections 7(14), 12(c), 101(a)(3), 101(a)(4), and 104 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(14), 709(c), 721(a)(3), 721(a)(4), and 724))

# Example for paragraph (b)(3):
Contributions may be earmarked in accordance with § 361.60(b)(3)(iii) for providing particular services (
e.g.,
rehabilitation technology services); serving individuals with certain types of disabilities (
e.g.,
individuals who are blind), consistent with the State's order of selection, if applicable; providing services to special groups that State or Federal law permits to be targeted for services (
e.g.,
students with disabilities who are receiving special education services), consistent with the State's order of selection, if applicable; or carrying out particular types of administrative activities permissible under State law. Contributions also may be restricted to particular geographic areas to increase services or expand the scope of services that are available statewide under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan in accordance with the requirements in § 361.60(b)(3)(ii).
§ 361.61
Limitation on use of funds for construction expenditures.
No more than 10 percent of a State's allotment for any fiscal year under section 110 of the Act may be spent on the
construction of facilities for community rehabilitation program purposes.
(Authority: Section 101(a)(17)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(17)(A))
§ 361.62
Maintenance of effort requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
The Secretary reduces the amount otherwise payable to a State for any fiscal year by the amount by which the total expenditures from non-Federal sources under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan for any previous fiscal year were less than the total of those expenditures for the fiscal year two years prior to that previous fiscal year.
(b)
Specific requirements for construction of facilities.
If the State provides for the construction of a facility for community rehabilitation program purposes, the amount of the State's share of expenditures for vocational rehabilitation services under the plan, other than for the construction of a facility for community rehabilitation program purposes or the establishment of a facility for community rehabilitation purposes, must be at least equal to the expenditures for those services for the second prior fiscal year.
(c)
Separate State agency for vocational rehabilitation services for individuals who are blind.
If there is a separate part of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan administered by a separate State agency to provide vocational rehabilitation services for individuals who are blind—
(1) Satisfaction of the maintenance of effort requirements under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is determined based on the total amount of a State's non-Federal expenditures under both parts of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan; and
(2) If a State fails to meet any maintenance of effort requirement, the Secretary reduces the amount otherwise payable to the State for a fiscal year under each part of the plan in direct proportion to the amount by which non-Federal expenditures under each part of the plan in any previous fiscal year were less than they were for that part of the plan for the fiscal year 2 years prior to that previous fiscal year.
(d)
Waiver or modification.
(1) The Secretary may waive or modify the maintenance of effort requirement in paragraph (a) of this section if the Secretary determines that a waiver or modification is necessary to permit the State to respond to exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a major natural disaster or a serious economic downturn, that—
(i) Cause significant unanticipated expenditures or reductions in revenue that result in a general reduction of programs within the State; or
(ii) Require the State to make substantial expenditures in the vocational rehabilitation program for long-term purposes due to the one-time costs associated with the construction of a facility for community rehabilitation program purposes, the establishment of a facility for community rehabilitation program purposes, or the acquisition of equipment.
(2) The Secretary may waive or modify the maintenance of effort requirement in paragraph (b) of this section or the 10 percent allotment limitation in § 361.61 if the Secretary determines that a waiver or modification is necessary to permit the State to respond to exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a major natural disaster, that result in significant destruction of existing facilities and require the State to make substantial expenditures for the construction of a facility for community rehabilitation program purposes or the establishment of a facility for community rehabilitation program purposes in order to provide vocational rehabilitation services.
(3) A written request for waiver or modification, including supporting justification, must be submitted to the Secretary for consideration as soon as the State has determined that it has failed to satisfy its maintenance of effort requirement due to an exceptional or uncontrollable circumstance, as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(Authority: Sections 101(a)(17) and 111(a)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(17) and 731(a)(2))
§ 361.63
Program income.
(a)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, program income means gross income received by the State that is directly generated by a supported activity under this part or earned as a result of the Federal award during the period of performance, as defined in 2 CFR 200.80.
(b)
Sources.
Sources of program income include, but are not limited to: Payments from the Social Security Administration for assisting Social Security beneficiaries and recipients to achieve employment outcomes; payments received from workers' compensation funds; payments received by the State agency from insurers, consumers, or others for services to defray part or all of the costs of services provided to particular individuals; and income generated by a State-operated community rehabilitation program for activities authorized under this part.
(c)
Use of program income.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, program income, whenever earned, must be used for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services and the administration of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan. Program income—
(i) Is considered earned in the fiscal year in which it is received; and
(ii) Must be disbursed during the period of performance of the award.
(2) Payments provided to a State from the Social Security Administration for assisting Social Security beneficiaries and recipients to achieve employment outcomes may also be used to carry out programs under part B of title I of the Act (client assistance), title VI of the Act (supported employment), and title VII of the Act (independent living).
(3)(i) The State must use program income to supplement Federal funds that support program activities that are subject to this part. See, for example, 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2).
(ii) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.305(a) and to the extent that program income funds are available, a State must disburse those funds (including repayments to a revolving fund), rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional funds from the Department.
(4) Program income cannot be used to meet the non-Federal share requirement under § 361.60.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 108 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 728; 2 CFR part 200)
§ 361.64
Obligation of Federal funds.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any Federal award funds, including reallotted funds, that are appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out a program under this part that are not obligated by the State by the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year remain available for obligation by the State during that succeeding fiscal year.
(b) Federal funds appropriated for a fiscal year remain available for obligation in the succeeding fiscal year only to the extent that the State met the matching requirement for those Federal funds by obligating, in accordance with 34 CFR 76.707, the non-Federal share in the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated.
(Authority: Section 19 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 716)
§ 361.65
Allotment and payment of Federal funds for vocational rehabilitation services.
(a)
Allotment.
(1) The allotment of Federal funds for vocational rehabilitation services for each State is computed in accordance with the requirements of section 110 of the Act, and payments are made to the State on a quarterly basis, unless some other period is established by the Secretary.
(2) If the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan designates one State agency to administer, or supervise the administration of, the part of the plan under which vocational rehabilitation services are provided for individuals who are blind and another State agency to administer the rest of the plan, the division of the State's allotment is a matter for State determination.
(3)
Reservation for pre-employment transition services.
(i) Pursuant to section 110(d) of the Act, the State must reserve at least 15 percent of the
State's allotment, received in accordance with section 110(a) of the Act for the provision of pre-employment transition services, as described in § 361.48(a) of this part.
(ii) The funds reserved in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section—
(A) Must only be used for pre-employment transition services specified in § 361.48(a); and
(B) Must not be used to pay for administrative costs, (as defined in § 361.5(c)(2)) associated with the provision of such services or any other vocational rehabilitation services.
(b)
Reallotment.
(1) The Secretary determines not later than 45 days before the end of a fiscal year which States, if any, will not use their full allotment.
(2) As soon as possible, but not later than the end of the fiscal year, the Secretary reallots these funds to other States that can use those additional funds during the period of performance of the award, provided the State can meet the matching requirement by obligating the non-Federal share of any reallotted funds in the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated.
(3) In the event more funds are requested by agencies than are available, the Secretary will determine the process for allocating funds available for reallotment.
(4) Funds reallotted to another State are considered to be an increase in the recipient State's allotment for the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 110, and 111 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 730, and 731)

# Subpart D—Unified and Combined State Plans Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act

# Authority:
Secs. 102, 103, and 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56022, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 361.100
What are the purposes of the Unified and Combined State Plans?
(a) The Unified and Combined State Plans provide the framework for States to outline a strategic vision of, and goals for, how their workforce development systems will achieve the purposes of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA).
(b) The Unified and Combined State Plans serve as 4-year action plans to develop, align, and integrate the State's systems and provide a platform to achieve the State's vision and strategic and operational goals. A Unified or Combined State Plan is intended to:
(1) Align, in strategic coordination, the six core programs required in the Unified State Plan pursuant to § 361.105(b), and additional Combined State Plan partner programs that may be part of the Combined State Plan pursuant to § 361.140;
(2) Direct investments in economic, education, and workforce training programs to focus on providing relevant education and training to ensure that individuals, including youth and individuals with barriers to employment, have the skills to compete in the job market and that employers have a ready supply of skilled workers;
(3) Apply strategies for job-driven training consistently across Federal programs; and
(4) Enable economic, education, and workforce partners to build a skilled workforce through innovation in, and alignment of, employment, training, and education programs.
§ 361.105
What are the general requirements for the Unified State Plan?
(a) The Unified State Plan must be submitted in accordance with § 361.130 and WIOA sec. 102(c), as explained in joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(b) The Governor of each State must submit, at a minimum, in accordance with § 361.130, a Unified State Plan to the Secretary of Labor to be eligible to receive funding for the workforce development system's six core programs:
(1) The adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under subtitle B of title I of WIOA and administered by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL);
(2) The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program authorized under title II of WIOA and administered by the U.S. Department of Education (ED);
(3) The Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act of 1933, as amended by WIOA title III and administered by DOL; and
(4) The Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by title IV of WIOA and administered by ED.
(c) The Unified State Plan must outline the State's 4-year strategy for the core programs described in paragraph (b) of this section and meet the requirements of sec. 102(b) of WIOA, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(d) The Unified State Plan must include strategic and operational planning elements to facilitate the development of an aligned, coordinated, and comprehensive workforce development system. The Unified State Plan must include:
(1) Strategic planning elements that describe the State's strategic vision and goals for preparing an educated and skilled workforce under sec. 102(b)(1) of WIOA. The strategic planning elements must be informed by and include an analysis of the State's economic conditions and employer and workforce needs, including education and skill needs.
(2) Strategies for aligning the core programs and Combined State Plan partner programs as described in § 361.140(d), as well as other resources available to the State, to achieve the strategic vision and goals in accordance with sec. 102(b)(1)(E) of WIOA.
(3) Operational planning elements in accordance with sec. 102(b)(2) of WIOA that support the strategies for aligning the core programs and other resources available to the State to achieve the State's vision and goals and a description of how the State Workforce Development Board (WDB) will implement its functions, in accordance with sec. 101(d) of WIOA. Operational planning elements must include:
(i) A description of how the State strategy will be implemented by each core program's lead State agency;
(ii) State operating systems, including data systems, and policies that will support the implementation of the State's strategy identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(iii) Program-specific requirements for the core programs required by WIOA sec. 102(b)(2)(D);
(iv) Assurances required by sec. 102(b)(2)(E) of WIOA, including an assurance that the lead State agencies responsible for the administration of the core programs reviewed and commented on the appropriate operational planning of the Unified State Plan and approved the elements as serving the needs of the population served by such programs, and other assurances deemed necessary by the Secretaries of Labor and Education under sec. 102(b)(2)(E)(x) of WIOA;
(v) A description of joint planning and coordination across core programs, required one-stop partner programs, and other programs and activities in the Unified State Plan; and
(vi) Any additional operational planning requirements imposed by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education under sec. 102(b)(2)(C)(viii) of WIOA.
(e) All of the requirements in this subpart that apply to States also apply to outlying areas.
§ 361.110
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I?
The program-specific requirements for the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs that must be included in the Unified State Plan are described in sec. 102(b)(2)(D) of WIOA. Additional planning requirements may be explained in joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
§ 361.115
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act program authorized under Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title II?
The program-specific requirements for the AEFLA program in title II that must be included in the Unified State Plan are described in secs. 102(b)(2)(C) and 102(b)(2)(D)(ii) of WIOA.
(a) With regard to the description required in sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(ii)(I) of WIOA pertaining to content standards, the Unified State Plan must describe how the eligible agency will, by July 1, 2016, align its content standards for adult education with State-adopted challenging academic content standards under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended.
(b) With regard to the description required in sec. 102(b)(2)(C)(iv) of WIOA pertaining to the methods and factors the State will use to distribute funds under the core programs, for title II of WIOA, the Unified State Plan must include—
(1) How the eligible agency will award multi-year grants on a competitive basis to eligible providers in the State; and
(2) How the eligible agency will provide direct and equitable access to funds using the same grant or contract announcement and application procedure.
§ 361.120
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title III?
The Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act of 1933, as amended by WIOA title III, is subject to requirements in sec. 102(b) of WIOA, including any additional requirements imposed by the Secretary of Labor under secs. 102(b)(2)(C)(viii) and 102(b)(2)(D)(iv) of WIOA, as explained in joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
§ 361.125
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the State Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title IV?
The program specific-requirements for the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan are set forth in sec. 101(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. All submission requirements for the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan are in addition to the jointly developed strategic and operational content requirements prescribed by sec. 102(b) of WIOA.
§ 361.130
What is the development, submission, and approval process of the Unified State Plan?
(a) The Unified State Plan described in § 361.105 must be submitted in accordance with WIOA sec. 102(c), as explained in joint planning guidelines issued jointly by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(b) A State must submit its Unified State Plan to the Secretary of Labor pursuant to a process identified by the Secretary.
(1) The initial Unified State Plan must be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the commencement of the second full program year of WIOA.
(2) Subsequent Unified State Plans must be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the end of the 4-year period covered by a preceding Unified State Plan.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, “program year” means July 1 through June 30 of any year.
(c) The Unified State Plan must be developed with the assistance of the State WDB, as required by 20 CFR 679.130(a) and WIOA sec. 101(d), and must be developed in coordination with administrators with optimum policy-making authority for the core programs and required one-stop partners.
(d) The State must provide an opportunity for public comment on and input into the development of the Unified State Plan prior to its submission.
(1) The opportunity for public comment must include an opportunity for
comment by representatives of Local WDBs and chief elected officials, businesses, representatives of labor organizations, community-based organizations, adult education providers, institutions of higher education, other stakeholders with an interest in the services provided by the six core programs, and the general public, including individuals with disabilities.
(2) Consistent with the “Sunshine Provision” of WIOA in sec. 101(g), the State WDB must make information regarding the Unified State Plan available to the public through electronic means and regularly occurring open meetings in accordance with State law. The Unified State Plan must describe the State's process and timeline for ensuring a meaningful opportunity for public comment.
(e) Upon receipt of the Unified State Plan from the State, the Secretary of Labor will ensure that the entire Unified State Plan is submitted to the Secretary of Education pursuant to a process developed by the Secretaries.
(f) The Unified State Plan is subject to the approval of both the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education.
(g) Before the Secretaries of Labor and Education approve the Unified State Plan, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified State Plan described in WIOA sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(iii) must be approved by the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration.
(h) The Secretaries of Labor and Education will review and approve the Unified State Plan within 90 days of receipt by the Secretary of Labor, unless the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education determines in writing within that period that:
(1) The plan is inconsistent with a core program's requirements;
(2) The Unified State Plan is inconsistent with any requirement of sec. 102 of WIOA; or
(3) The plan is incomplete or otherwise insufficient to determine whether it is consistent with a core program's requirements or other requirements of WIOA.
(i) If neither the Secretary of Labor nor the Secretary of Education makes the written determination described in paragraph (h) of this section within 90 days of the receipt by the Secretaries, the Unified State Plan will be considered approved.
§ 361.135
What are the requirements for modification of the Unified State Plan?
(a) In addition to the required modification review set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, a Governor may submit a modification of its Unified State Plan at any time during the 4-year period of the plan.
(b) Modifications are required, at a minimum:
(1) At the end of the first 2-year period of any 4-year State Plan, wherein the State WDB must review the Unified State Plan, and the Governor must submit modifications to the plan to reflect changes in labor market and economic conditions or other factors affecting the implementation of the Unified State Plan;
(2) When changes in Federal or State law or policy substantially affect the strategies, goals, and priorities upon which the Unified State Plan is based;
(3) When there are changes in the statewide vision, strategies, policies, State negotiated levels of performance as described in § 361.170(b), the methodology used to determine local allocation of funds, reorganizations that change the working relationship with system employees, changes in organizational responsibilities, changes to the membership structure of the State WDB or alternative entity, and similar substantial changes to the State's workforce development system.
(c) Modifications to the Unified State Plan are subject to the same public review and comment requirements in § 361.130(d) that apply to the development of the original Unified State Plan.
(d) Unified State Plan modifications must be approved by the Secretaries of Labor and Education, based on the approval standards applicable to the original Unified State Plan under § 361.130. This approval must come after the approval of the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration for modification of any portion of the plan described in sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(iii) of WIOA.
§ 361.140
What are the general requirements for submitting a Combined State Plan?
(a) A State may choose to develop and submit a 4-year Combined State Plan in lieu of the Unified State Plan described in §§ 361.105 through 361.125.
(b) A State that submits a Combined State Plan covering an activity or program described in paragraph (d) of this section that is, in accordance with WIOA sec. 103(c), approved or deemed complete under the law relating to the program will not be required to submit any other plan or application in order to receive Federal funds to carry out the core programs or the program or activities described under paragraph (d) of this section that are covered by the Combined State Plan.
(c) If a State develops a Combined State Plan, it must be submitted in accordance with the process described in § 361.143.
(d) If a State chooses to submit a Combined State Plan, the plan must include the six core programs and one or more of the Combined State Plan partner programs and activities described in sec. 103(a)(2) of WIOA. The Combined State Plan partner programs and activities that may be included in the Combined State Plan are:
(1) Career and technical education programs authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
);
(2) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families or TANF, authorized under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
);
(3) Employment and training programs authorized under sec. 6(d)(4) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4));
(4) Work programs authorized under sec. 6(o) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2015(o));
(5) Trade adjustment assistance activities under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271
et seq.
);
(6) Services for veterans authorized under chapter 41 of title 38 United States Code;
(7) Programs authorized under State unemployment compensation laws (in accordance with applicable Federal law);
(8) Senior Community Service Employment Programs under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056
et seq.
);
(9) Employment and training activities carried out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD);
(10) Employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.
); and
(11) Reintegration of offenders programs authorized under sec. 212 of the Second Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17532).
(e) A Combined State Plan must contain:
(1) For the core programs, the information required by sec. 102(b) of WIOA and §§ 361.105 through 361.125, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries;
(2) For the Combined State Plan partner programs and activities, except as described in paragraph (h) of this section, the information required by the law authorizing and governing that program to be submitted to the appropriate Secretary, any other applicable legal requirements, and any common planning requirements described in sec. 102(b) of WIOA, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries;
(3) A description of the methods used for joint planning and coordination among the core programs, and with the required one-stop partner programs and other programs and activities included in the State Plan; and
(4) An assurance that all of the entities responsible for planning or administering the programs described in the Combined State Plan have had a meaningful opportunity to review and comment on all portions of the plan.
(f) Each Combined State Plan partner program included in the Combined State Plan remains subject to the applicable program-specific requirements of the Federal law and regulations, and any other applicable legal or program requirements, governing the implementation and operation of that program.
(g) For purposes of §§ 361.140 through 361.145 the term “appropriate Secretary” means the head of the Federal agency who exercises either plan or application approval authority for the program or activity under the Federal law authorizing the program or activity or, if there are no planning or application requirements, who exercises administrative authority over the program or activity under that Federal law.
(h) States that include employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) Act (42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.
) under a Combined State Plan would submit all other required elements of a complete CSBG State Plan directly to the Federal agency that administers the program, according to the requirements of Federal law and regulations.
(i) States that submit employment and training activities carried out by HUD under a Combined State Plan would submit any other required planning documents for HUD programs directly to HUD, according to the requirements of Federal law and regulations.
§ 361.143
What is the development, submission, and approval process of the Combined State Plan?
(a) For purposes of § 361.140(a), if a State chooses to develop a Combined State Plan it must submit the Combined State Plan in accordance with the requirements described below and sec. 103 of WIOA, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(b) The Combined State Plan must be developed with the assistance of the State WDB, as required by 20 CFR 679.130(a) and WIOA sec. 101(d), and must be developed in coordination with administrators with optimum policy-making authority for the core programs and required one-stop partners.
(c) The State must provide an opportunity for public comment on and input into the development of the Combined State Plan prior to its submission.
(1) The opportunity for public comment for the portions of the Combined State Plan that cover the core programs must include an opportunity for comment by representatives of Local WDBs and chief elected officials, businesses, representatives of labor organizations, community-based organizations, adult education providers, institutions of higher education, other stakeholders with an interest in the services provided by the six core programs, and the general public, including individuals with disabilities.
(2) Consistent with the “Sunshine Provision” of WIOA in sec. 101(g), the State WDB must make information regarding the Combined State Plan available to the public through electronic means and regularly occurring open meetings in accordance with State law. The Combined State Plan must describe the State's process and timeline for ensuring a meaningful opportunity for public comment on the portions of the plan covering core programs.
(3) The portions of the plan that cover the Combined State Plan partner programs are subject to any public comment requirements applicable to those programs.
(d) The State must submit to the Secretaries of Labor and Education and to the Secretary of the agency with responsibility for approving the program's plan or deeming it complete under the law governing the program, as part of its Combined State Plan, any plan, application, form, or any other similar document that is required as a condition for the approval of Federal funding under the applicable program or activity. Such submission must occur in accordance with a process identified by the relevant Secretaries in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) The Combined State Plan will be approved or disapproved in accordance with the requirements of sec. 103(c) of WIOA.
(1) The portion of the Combined State Plan covering programs administered by the Departments of Labor and Education must be reviewed, and approved or disapproved, by the appropriate Secretary within 90 days beginning on the day the Combined State Plan is received by the appropriate Secretary from the State, consistent
with paragraph (f) of this section. Before the Secretaries of Labor and Education approve the Combined State Plan, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Combined State Plan described in WIOA sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(iii) must be approved by the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration.
(2) If an appropriate Secretary other than the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education has authority to approve or deem complete a portion of the Combined State Plan for a program or activity described in § 361.140(d), that portion of the Combined State Plan must be reviewed, and approved, disapproved, or deemed complete, by the appropriate Secretary within 120 days beginning on the day the Combined State Plan is received by the appropriate Secretary from the State consistent with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) The appropriate Secretaries will review and approve or deem complete the Combined State Plan within 90 or 120 days, as appropriate, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, unless the Secretaries of Labor and Education or appropriate Secretary have determined in writing within that period that:
(1) The Combined State Plan is inconsistent with the requirements of the six core programs or the Federal laws authorizing or applicable to the program or activity involved, including the criteria for approval of a plan or application, or deeming the plan complete, if any, under such law;
(2) The portion of the Combined State Plan describing the six core programs or the program or activity described in paragraph (a) of this section involved does not satisfy the criteria as provided in sec. 102 or 103 of WIOA, as applicable; or
(3) The Combined State Plan is incomplete, or otherwise insufficient to determine whether it is consistent with a core program's requirements, other requirements of WIOA, or the Federal laws authorizing, or applicable to, the program or activity described in § 361.140(d), including the criteria for approval of a plan or application, if any, under such law.
(g) If the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, or the appropriate Secretary does not make the written determination described in paragraph (f) of this section within the relevant period of time after submission of the Combined State Plan, that portion of the Combined State Plan over which the Secretary has jurisdiction will be considered approved.
(h) The Secretaries of Labor and Education's written determination of approval or disapproval regarding the portion of the plan for the six core programs may be separate from the written determination of approval, disapproval, or completeness of the program-specific requirements of Combined State Plan partner programs and activities described in § 361.140(d) and included in the Combined State Plan.
(i)
Special rule.
In paragraphs (f)(1) and (3) of this section, the term “criteria for approval of a plan or application,” with respect to a State or a core program or a program under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
), includes a requirement for agreement between the State and the appropriate Secretaries regarding State performance measures or State performance accountability measures, as the case may be, including levels of performance.
§ 361.145
What are the requirements for modifications of the Combined State Plan?
(a) For the core program portions of the Combined State Plan, modifications are required, at a minimum:
(1) By the end of the first 2-year period of any 4-year State Plan. The State WDB must review the Combined State Plan, and the Governor must submit modifications to the Combined State Plan to reflect changes in labor market and economic conditions or other factors affecting the implementation of the Combined State Plan;
(2) When changes in Federal or State law or policy substantially affect the strategies, goals, and priorities upon which the Combined State Plan is based;
(3) When there are changes in the statewide vision, strategies, policies, State negotiated levels of performance
as described in § 361.170(b), the methodology used to determine local allocation of funds, reorganizations that change the working relationship with system employees, changes in organizational responsibilities, changes to the membership structure of the State WDB or alternative entity, and similar substantial changes to the State's workforce development system.
(b) In addition to the required modification review described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a State may submit a modification of its Combined State Plan at any time during the 4-year period of the plan.
(c) For any Combined State Plan partner programs and activities described in § 361.140(d) that are included in a State's Combined State Plan, the State—
(1) May decide if the modification requirements under WIOA sec. 102(c)(3) that apply to the core programs will apply to the Combined State Plan partner programs, as long as consistent with any other modification requirements for the programs, or may comply with the requirements applicable to only the particular program or activity; and
(2) Must submit, in accordance with the procedure described in § 361.143, any modification, amendment, or revision required by the Federal law authorizing, or applicable to, the Combined State Plan partner program or activity.
(i) If the underlying programmatic requirements change (
e.g.,
the authorizing statute is reauthorized) for Federal laws authorizing such programs, a State must either modify its Combined State Plan or submit a separate plan to the appropriate Federal agency in accordance with the new Federal law authorizing the Combined State Plan partner program or activity and other legal requirements applicable to such program or activity.
(ii) If the modification, amendment, or revision affects the administration of only that particular Combined State Plan partner program and has no impact on the Combined State Plan as a whole or the integration and administration of the core and other Combined State Plan partner programs at the State level, modifications must be submitted for approval to only the appropriate Secretary, based on the approval standards applicable to the original Combined State Plan under § 361.143, if the State elects, or in accordance with the procedures and requirements applicable to the particular Combined State Plan partner program.
(3) A State also may amend its Combined State Plan to add a Combined State Plan partner program or activity described in § 361.140(d).
(d) Modifications of the Combined State Plan are subject to the same public review and comment requirements that apply to the development of the original Combined State Plan as described in § 361.143(c) except that, if the modification, amendment, or revision affects the administration of a particular Combined State Plan partner program and has no impact on the Combined State Plan as a whole or the integration and administration of the core and other Combined State Plan partner programs at the State level, a State may comply instead with the procedures and requirements applicable to the particular Combined State Plan partner program.
(e) Modifications for the core program portions of the Combined State Plan must be approved by the Secretaries of Labor and Education, based on the approval standards applicable to the original Combined State Plan under § 361.143. This approval must come after the approval of the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration for modification of any portion of the Combined State Plan described in sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(iii) of WIOA.

# Subpart E—Performance Accountability Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act

# Authority:
Secs. 116, 189, and 503 of Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56026, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 361.150
What definitions apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act performance accountability provisions?
(a)
Participant.
A reportable individual who has received services other than the services described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, after satisfying all applicable programmatic requirements for the provision of services, such as eligibility determination.
(1) For the Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) program, a participant is a reportable individual who has an approved and signed Individualized Plan for Employment (IPE) and has begun to receive services.
(2) For the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) title I youth program, a participant is a reportable individual who has satisfied all applicable program requirements for the provision of services, including eligibility determination, an objective assessment, and development of an individual service strategy, and received 1 of the 14 WIOA youth program elements identified in sec. 129(c)(2) of WIOA.
(3) The following individuals are not participants:
(i) Individuals in an Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program who have not completed at least 12 contact hours;
(ii) Individuals who only use the self-service system.
(A) Subject to paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, self-service occurs when individuals independently access any workforce development system program's information and activities in either a physical location, such as a one-stop center resource room or partner agency, or remotely via the use of electronic technologies.
(B) Self-service does not uniformly apply to all virtually accessed services. For example, virtually accessed services that provide a level of support beyond independent job or information seeking on the part of an individual would not qualify as self-service.
(iii) Individuals who receive information-only services or activities, which provide readily available information that does not require an assessment by a staff member of the individual's skills, education, or career objectives.
(4) Programs must include participants in their performance calculations.
(b)
Reportable individual.
An individual who has taken action that demonstrates an intent to use program services and who meets specific reporting criteria of the program, including:
(1) Individuals who provide identifying information;
(2) Individuals who only use the self-service system; or
(3) Individuals who only receive information-only services or activities.
(c)
Exit.
As defined for the purpose of performance calculations, exit is the point after which a participant who has received services through any program meets the following criteria:
(1) For the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I, the AEFLA program authorized under WIOA title II, and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, exit date is the last date of service.
(i) The last day of service cannot be determined until at least 90 days have elapsed since the participant last received services; services do not include self-service, information-only services or activities, or follow-up services. This also requires that there are no plans to provide the participant with future services.
(ii) [Reserved].
(2)(i) For the VR program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV (VR program):
(A) The participant's record of service is closed in accordance with § 361.56 because the participant has achieved an employment outcome; or
(B) The participant's service record is closed because the individual has not achieved an employment outcome or the individual has been determined ineligible after receiving services in accordance with § 361.43.
(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a participant will not be considered as meeting the definition of exit from the VR program if the participant's service record is closed because the participant has
achieved a supported employment outcome in an integrated setting but not in competitive integrated employment.
(3)(i) A State may implement a common exit policy for all or some of the core programs in WIOA title I and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, and any additional required partner program(s) listed in sec. 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA that is under the authority of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL).
(ii) If a State chooses to implement a common exit policy, the policy must require that a participant is exited only when all of the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are met for the WIOA title I core programs and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, as well as any additional required partner programs listed in sec. 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA under the authority of DOL to which the common exit policy applies in which the participant is enrolled.
(d)
State.
For purposes of this part, other than in regard to sanctions or the statistical adjustment model, all references to “State” include the outlying areas of American Samoa, Guam, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and, as applicable, the Republic of Palau.
§ 361.155
What are the primary indicators of performance under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) All States submitting either a Unified or Combined State Plan under §§ 361.130 and 361.143, must propose expected levels of performance for each of the primary indicators of performance for the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I; the AEFLA program authorized under WIOA title II; the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III; and the VR program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV.
(1)
Primary indicators of performance.
The six primary indicators of performance for the adult and dislocated worker programs, the AEFLA program, and the VR program are:
(i) The percentage of participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(ii) The percentage of participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(iii) Median earnings of participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(iv)(A) The percentage of those participants enrolled in an education or training program (excluding those in on-the-job training [OJT] and customized training) who attained a recognized postsecondary credential or a secondary school diploma, or its recognized equivalent, during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program.
(B) A participant who has attained a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent is included in the percentage of participants who have attained a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent only if the participant also is employed or is enrolled in an education or training program leading to a recognized postsecondary credential within 1 year after exit from the program;
(v) The percentage of participants who, during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains, defined as documented academic, technical, occupational, or other forms of progress, towards such a credential or employment. Depending upon the type of education or training program, documented progress is defined as one of the following:
(A) Documented achievement of at least one educational functioning level of a participant who is receiving instruction below the postsecondary education level;
(B) Documented attainment of a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent;
(C) Secondary or postsecondary transcript or report card for a sufficient number of credit hours that shows a
participant is meeting the State unit's academic standards;
(D) Satisfactory or better progress report, towards established milestones, such as completion of OJT or completion of 1 year of an apprenticeship program or similar milestones, from an employer or training provider who is providing training; or
(E) Successful passage of an exam that is required for a particular occupation or progress in attaining technical or occupational skills as evidenced by trade-related benchmarks such as knowledge-based exams.
(vi) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit. For the six core programs, this indicator is a statewide indicator reported by one core program on behalf of all six core programs in the State, as described in guidance.
(2)
Participants.
For purposes of the primary indicators of performance in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, “participant” will have the meaning given to it in § 361.150(a), except that—
(i) For purposes of determining program performance levels under indicators set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) and (vi) of this section, a “participant” does not include a participant who received services under sec. 225 of WIOA and exits such program while still in a correctional institution as defined in sec. 225(e)(1) of WIOA; and
(ii) The Secretaries of Labor and Education may, as needed and consistent with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA), make further determinations as to the participants to be included in calculating program performance levels for purposes of any of the performance indicators set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) The primary indicators in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) and (vi) of this section apply to the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III.
(c) For the youth program authorized under WIOA title I, the primary indicators are:
(1) Percentage of participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(2) Percentage of participants in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(3) Median earnings of participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(4) The percentage of those participants enrolled in an education or training program (excluding those in OJT and customized training) who obtained a recognized postsecondary credential or a secondary school diploma, or its recognized equivalent, during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program, except that a participant who has attained a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent is included as having attained a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent only if the participant is also employed or is enrolled in an education or training program leading to a recognized postsecondary credential within 1 year from program exit;
(5) The percentage of participants who during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains, defined as documented academic, technical, occupational or other forms of progress towards such a credential or employment. Depending upon the type of education or training program, documented progress is defined as one of the following:
(i) Documented achievement of at least one educational functioning level of a participant who is receiving instruction below the postsecondary education level;
(ii) Documented attainment of a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent;
(iii) Secondary or postsecondary transcript or report card for a sufficient number of credit hours that shows a participant is achieving the State unit's academic standards;
(iv) Satisfactory or better progress report, towards established milestones, such as completion of OJT or completion of 1 year of an apprenticeship program or similar milestones, from an employer or training provider who is providing training; or
(v) Successful passage of an exam that is required for a particular occupation or progress in attaining technical or occupational skills as evidenced by trade-related benchmarks such as knowledge-based exams.
(6) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit. For the six core programs, this indicator is a statewide indicator reported by one core program on behalf of all six core programs in the State, as described in guidance.
[81 FR 56026, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 13848, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 361.160
What information is required for State performance reports?
(a) The State performance report required by sec. 116(d)(2) of WIOA must be submitted annually using a template the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate, and must provide, at a minimum, information on the actual performance levels achieved consistent with § 361.175 with respect to:
(1) The total number of participants served, and the total number of participants who exited each of the core programs identified in sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(ii) of WIOA, including disaggregated counts of those who participated in and exited a core program, by:
(i) Individuals with barriers to employment as defined in WIOA sec. 3(24); and
(ii) Co-enrollment in any of the programs in WIOA sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(ii).
(2) Information on the performance levels achieved for the primary indicators of performance for all of the core programs identified in § 361.155 including disaggregated levels for:
(i) Individuals with barriers to employment as defined in WIOA sec. 3(24);
(ii) Age;
(iii) Sex; and
(iv) Race and ethnicity.
(3) The total number of participants who received career services and the total number of participants who exited from career services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, and the total number of participants who received training services and the total number of participants who exited from training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;
(4) Information on the performance levels achieved for the primary indicators of performance consistent with § 361.155 for career services and training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;
(5) The percentage of participants in a program who attained unsubsidized employment related to the training received (often referred to as training-related employment) through WIOA title I, subtitle B programs;
(6) The amount of funds spent on career services and the amount of funds spent on training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;
(7) The average cost per participant for those participants who received career services and training services, respectively, during the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;
(8) The percentage of a State's annual allotment under WIOA sec. 132(b) that the State spent on administrative costs; and
(9) Information that facilitates comparisons of programs with programs in other States.
(10) For WIOA title I programs, a State performance narrative, which, for States in which a local area is implementing a pay-for-performance contracting strategy, at a minimum provides:
(i) A description of pay-for-performance contract strategies being used for programs;
(ii) The performance of service providers entering into contracts for such strategies, measured against the levels of performance specified in the contracts for such strategies; and
(iii) An evaluation of the design of the programs and performance strategies and, when available, the satisfaction of employers and participants who received services under such strategies.
(b) The disaggregation of data for the State performance report must be done in compliance with WIOA sec. 116(d)(6)(C).
(c) The State performance reports must include a mechanism of electronic access to the State's local area and eligible training provider (ETP) performance reports.
(d) States must comply with these requirements from sec. 116 of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Departments of Labor and Education, which may include information on reportable individuals as determined by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
§ 361.165
May a State establish additional indicators of performance?
States may identify additional indicators of performance for the six core programs. If a State does so, these indicators must be included in the Unified or Combined State Plan.
§ 361.170
How are State levels of performance for primary indicators established?
(a) A State must submit in the State Plan expected levels of performance on the primary indicators of performance for each core program as required by sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(iii) of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(1) The initial State Plan submitted under WIOA must contain expected levels of performance for the first 2 years of the State Plan.
(2) States must submit expected levels of performance for the third and fourth year of the State Plan before the third program year consistent with §§ 361.135 and 361.145.
(b) States must reach agreement on levels of performance with the Secretaries of Labor and Education for each indicator for each core program. These are the negotiated levels of performance. The negotiated levels must be based on the following factors:
(1) How the negotiated levels of performance compare with State levels of performance established for other States;
(2) The application of an objective statistical model established by the Secretaries of Labor and Education, subject to paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) How the negotiated levels promote continuous improvement in performance based on the primary indicators and ensure optimal return on investment of Federal funds; and
(4) The extent to which the negotiated levels assist the State in meeting the performance goals established by the Secretaries of Labor and Education for the core programs in accordance with the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, as amended.
(c) An objective statistical adjustment model will be developed and disseminated by the Secretaries of Labor and Education. The model will be based on:
(1) Differences among States in actual economic conditions, including but not limited to unemployment rates and job losses or gains in particular industries; and
(2) The characteristics of participants, including but not limited to:
(i) Indicators of poor work history;
(ii) Lack of work experience;
(iii) Lack of educational or occupational skills attainment;
(iv) Dislocation from high-wage and high-benefit employment;
(v) Low levels of literacy;
(vi) Low levels of English proficiency;
(vii) Disability status;
(viii) Homelessness;
(ix) Ex-offender status; and
(x) Welfare dependency.
(d) The objective statistical adjustment model developed under paragraph (c) of this section will be:
(1) Applied to the core programs' primary indicators upon availability of data which are necessary to populate the model and apply the model to the local core programs;
(2) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, used before the beginning of a program year in order to reach agreement on State negotiated levels for the upcoming program year; and
(3) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, used to revise negotiated levels at the end of a program year based on actual economic conditions and characteristics of participants served, consistent with sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(vii) of WIOA.
(e) The negotiated levels revised at the end of the program year, based on the statistical adjustment model, are the adjusted levels of performance.
(f) States must comply with these requirements from sec. 116 of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Departments of Labor and Education.
§ 361.175
What responsibility do States have to use quarterly wage record information for performance accountability?
(a)(1) States must, consistent with State laws, use quarterly wage record information in measuring a State's performance on the primary indicators of performance outlined in § 361.155 and a local area's performance on the primary indicators of performance identified in § 361.205.
(2) The use of social security numbers from participants and such other information as is necessary to measure the progress of those participants through quarterly wage record information is authorized.
(3) To the extent that quarterly wage records are not available for a participant, States may use other information as is necessary to measure the progress of those participants through methods other than quarterly wage record information.
(b) “Quarterly wage record information” means intrastate and interstate wages paid to an individual, the social security number (or numbers, if more than one) of the individual, and the name, address, State, and the Federal employer identification number of the employer paying the wages to the individual.
(c) The Governor may designate a State agency (or appropriate State entity) to assist in carrying out the performance reporting requirements for WIOA core programs and ETPs. The Governor or such agency (or appropriate State entity) is responsible for:
(1) Facilitating data matches;
(2) Data quality reliability; and
(3) Protection against disaggregation that would violate applicable privacy standards.
§ 361.180
When is a State subject to a financial sanction under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
A State will be subject to financial sanction under WIOA sec. 116(f) if it fails to:
(a) Submit the State annual performance report required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(2); or
(b) Meet adjusted levels of performance for the primary indicators of performance in accordance with sec. 116(f) of WIOA.
§ 361.185
When are sanctions applied for a State's failure to submit an annual performance report?
(a) Sanctions will be applied when a State fails to submit the State annual performance report required under sec. 116(d)(2) of WIOA. A State fails to report if the State either:
(1) Does not submit a State annual performance report by the date for timely submission set in performance reporting guidance; or
(2) Submits a State annual performance report by the date for timely submission, but the report is incomplete.
(b) Sanctions will not be applied if the reporting failure is due to exceptional circumstances outside of the State's control. Exceptional circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Natural disasters;
(2) Unexpected personnel transitions; and
(3) Unexpected technology related issues.
(c) In the event that a State may not be able to submit a complete and accurate performance report by the deadline for timely reporting:
(1) The State must notify the Secretary of Labor or Secretary of Education as soon as possible, but no later than 30 days prior to the established deadline for submission, of a potential impact on the State's ability to submit its State annual performance report in order to not be considered failing to report.
(2) In circumstances where unexpected events occur less than 30 days before the established deadline for submission of the State annual performance reports, the Secretaries of Labor and Education will review requests for extending the reporting deadline in accordance with the Departments of Labor and Education's procedures that will be established in guidance.
§ 361.190
When are sanctions applied for failure to achieve adjusted levels of performance?
(a) States' negotiated levels of performance will be adjusted through the application of the statistical adjustment model established under § 361.170 to account for actual economic conditions experienced during a program year and characteristics of participants, annually at the close of each program year.
(b) Any State that fails to meet adjusted levels of performance for the primary indicators of performance outlined in § 361.155 for any year will receive technical assistance, including assistance in the development of a performance improvement plan provided by the Secretary of Labor or Secretary of Education.
(c) Whether a State has failed to meet adjusted levels of performance will be determined using the following criteria:
(1) The overall State program score, which is expressed as the percent achieved, compares the actual results achieved by a core program on the primary indicators of performance, except for the effectiveness in serving employers indicator described in § 361.155(a)(1)(vi), to the adjusted levels of performance for that core program. The average of the percentages achieved of the adjusted level of performance for each of the primary indicators, except for the effectiveness in serving employers indicator described in § 361.155(a)(1)(vi), by a core program will constitute the overall State program score.
(2) However, until all indicators for the core program have at least 2 years of complete data, the overall State program score will be based on a comparison of the actual results achieved to the adjusted level of performance for each of the primary indicators that have at least 2 years of complete data for that program.
(3) The overall State indicator score, which is expressed as the percent achieved, compares the actual results achieved on a primary indicator of performance by all core programs in a State to the adjusted levels of performance for that primary indicator.
(i) The average of the percentages achieved of the adjusted level of performance by all of the core programs on that indicator will constitute the overall State indicator score, except for the effectiveness in serving employers indicator described in § 361.155(a)(1)(vi).
(ii) The overall State indicator score for effectiveness in serving employers, as reported by one core program on behalf of all six core programs in the State, as described in guidance, is a statewide indicator that reflects the performance for all core programs. It is calculated as the statewide percentage achieved of the statewide adjusted level of performance.
(4) However, until all indicators for the State have at least 2 years of complete data, the overall State indicator score will be based on a comparison of the actual results achieved to the adjusted level of performance for each of the primary indicators that have at least 2 years of complete data in a State.
(5) The individual indicator score, which is expressed as the percent achieved, compares the actual results achieved by each core program on each of the individual primary indicators to the adjusted levels of performance for each of the program's primary indicators of performance, except for the effectiveness in serving employers indicator described in § 361.155(a)(1)(vi).
(d) A performance failure occurs when:
(1) Any overall State program score or overall State indicator score falls below 90 percent for the program year; or
(2) Any of the States' individual indicator scores fall below 50 percent for the program year.
(e) Sanctions based on performance failure will be applied to States if, for
2 consecutive years, the State fails to meet:
(1) 90 percent of the overall State program score for the same core program;
(2) 90 percent of the overall State indicator score for the same primary indicator; or
(3) 50 percent of the same indicator score for the same program.
[81 FR 56026, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 13848, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 361.195
What should States expect when a sanction is applied to the Governor's Reserve Allotment?
(a) The Secretaries of Labor and Education will reduce the Governor's Reserve Allotment by five percent of the maximum available amount for the immediately succeeding program year if:
(1) The State fails to submit the State annual performance reports as required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(2), as defined in § 361.185;
(2) The State fails to meet State adjusted levels of performance for the same primary performance indicator(s) under either § 361.190(d)(1) for the second consecutive year as defined in § 361.190; or
(3) The State's score on the same indicator for the same program falls below 50 percent under § 361.190(d)(2) for the second consecutive year as defined in § 361.190.
(b) If the State fails under paragraphs (a)(1) and either (a)(2) or (3) of this section in the same program year, the Secretaries of Labor and Education will reduce the Governor's Reserve Allotment by 10 percent of the maximum available amount for the immediately succeeding program year.
(c) If a State's Governor's Reserve Allotment is reduced:
(1) The reduced amount will not be returned to the State in the event that the State later improves performance or submits its annual performance report; and
(2) The Governor's Reserve will continue to be set at the reduced level in each subsequent year until the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education, depending on which program is impacted, determines that the State met the State adjusted levels of performance for the applicable primary performance indicators and has submitted all of the required performance reports.
(d) A State may request review of a sanction the Secretary of Labor imposes in accordance with the provisions of 20 CFR 683.800.
§ 361.200
What other administrative actions will be applied to States' performance requirements?
(a) In addition to sanctions for failure to report or failure to meet adjusted levels of performance, States will be subject to administrative actions in the case of poor performance.
(b) States' performance achievement on the individual primary indicators will be assessed in addition to the overall State program score and overall State indicator score. Based on this assessment, as clarified and explained in guidance, for performance on any individual primary indicator, the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education will require the State to establish a performance risk plan to address continuous improvement on the individual primary indicator.
§ 361.205
What performance indicators apply to local areas and what information must be included in local area performance reports?
(a) Each local area in a State under WIOA title I is subject to the same primary indicators of performance for the core programs for WIOA title I under § 361.155(a)(1) and (c) that apply to the State.
(b) In addition to the indicators described in paragraph (a) of this section, under § 361.165, the Governor may apply additional indicators of performance to local areas in the State.
(c) States must annually make local area performance reports available to the public using a template that the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate in guidance, including by electronic means. The State must provide electronic access to the public local area performance report in its annual State performance report.
(d) The local area performance report must include:
(1) The actual results achieved under § 361.155 and the information required under § 361.160(a);
(2) The percentage of a local area's allotment under WIOA secs. 128(b) and 133(b) that the local area spent on administrative costs; and
(3) Other information that facilitates comparisons of programs with programs in other local areas (or planning regions if the local area is part of a planning region).
(e) The disaggregation of data for the local area performance report must be done in compliance with WIOA sec. 116(d)(6)(C).
(f) States must comply with any requirements from sec. 116(d)(3) of WIOA as explained in guidance, including the use of the performance reporting template, issued by DOL.
§ 361.210
How are local performance levels established?
(a) The objective statistical adjustment model required under sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(viii) of WIOA and described in § 361.170(c) must be:
(1) Applied to the core programs' primary indicators upon availability of data which are necessary to populate the model and apply the model to the local core programs;
(2) Used in order to reach agreement on local negotiated levels of performance for the upcoming program year; and
(3) Used to establish adjusted levels of performance at the end of a program year based on actual conditions, consistent with WIOA sec. 116(c)(3).
(b) Until all indicators for the core program in a local area have at least 2 years of complete data, the comparison of the actual results achieved to the adjusted levels of performance for each of the primary indicators only will be applied where there are at least 2 years of complete data for that program.
(c) The Governor, Local Workforce Development Board (WDB), and chief elected official must reach agreement on local negotiated levels of performance based on a negotiations process before the start of a program year with the use of the objective statistical model described in paragraph (a) of this section. The negotiations will include a discussion of circumstances not accounted for in the model and will take into account the extent to which the levels promote continuous improvement. The objective statistical model will be applied at the end of the program year based on actual economic conditions and characteristics of the participants served.
(d) The negotiations process described in paragraph (c) of this section must be developed by the Governor and disseminated to all Local WDBs and chief elected officials.
(e) The Local WDBs may apply performance measures to service providers that differ from the performance indicators that apply to the local area. These performance measures must be established after considering:
(1) The established local negotiated levels;
(2) The services provided by each provider; and
(3) The populations the service providers are intended to serve.
§ 361.215
Under what circumstances are local areas eligible for State Incentive Grants?
(a) The Governor is not required to award local incentive funds, but is authorized to provide incentive grants to local areas for performance on the primary indicators of performance consistent with WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(xi).
(b) The Governor may use non-Federal funds to create incentives for the Local WDBs to implement pay-for-performance contract strategies for the delivery of training services described in WIOA sec. 134(c)(3) or activities described in WIOA sec. 129(c)(2) in the local areas served by the Local WDBs. Pay-for-performance contract strategies must be implemented in accordance with 20 CFR part 683, subpart E and § 361.160.
§ 361.220
Under what circumstances may a corrective action or sanction be applied to local areas for poor performance?
(a) If a local area fails to meet the adjusted levels of performance agreed to under § 361.210 for the primary indicators of performance in the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I in any program year, technical assistance must be provided by the Governor or, upon the Governor's request, by the Secretary of Labor.
(1) A State must establish the threshold for failure to meet adjusted levels of performance for a local area before coming to agreement on the negotiated levels of performance for the local area.
(i) A State must establish the adjusted level of performance for a local area, using the statistical adjustment model described in § 361.170(c).
(ii) At least 2 years of complete data on any indicator for any local core program are required in order to establish adjusted levels of performance for a local area.
(2) The technical assistance may include:
(i) Assistance in the development of a performance improvement plan;
(ii) The development of a modified local or regional plan; or
(iii) Other actions designed to assist the local area in improving performance.
(b) If a local area fails to meet the adjusted levels of performance agreed to under § 361.210 for the same primary indicators of performance for the same core program authorized under WIOA title I for a third consecutive program year, the Governor must take corrective actions. The corrective actions must include the development of a reorganization plan under which the Governor:
(1) Requires the appointment and certification of a new Local WDB, consistent with the criteria established under 20 CFR 679.350;
(2) Prohibits the use of eligible providers and one-stop partners that have been identified as achieving poor levels of performance; or
(3) Takes such other significant actions as the Governor determines are appropriate.
§ 361.225
Under what circumstances may local areas appeal a reorganization plan?
(a) The Local WDB and chief elected official for a local area that is subject to a reorganization plan under WIOA sec. 116(g)(2)(A) may appeal to the Governor to rescind or revise the reorganization plan not later than 30 days after receiving notice of the reorganization plan. The Governor must make a final decision within 30 days after receipt of the appeal.
(b) The Local WDB and chief elected official may appeal the final decision of the Governor to the Secretary of Labor not later than 30 days after receiving the decision from the Governor. Any appeal of the Governor's final decision must be:
(1) Appealed jointly by the Local WDB and chief elected official to the Secretary of Labor under 20 CFR 683.650; and
(2) Must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the Governor.
(c) Upon receipt of the joint appeal from the Local WDB and chief elected official, the Secretary of Labor must make a final decision within 30 days. In making this determination the Secretary of Labor may consider any comments submitted by the Governor in response to the appeals.
(d) The decision by the Governor on the appeal becomes effective at the time it is issued and remains effective unless the Secretary of Labor rescinds or revises the reorganization plan under WIOA sec. 116(g)(2)(C).
§ 361.230
What information is required for the eligible training provider performance reports?
(a) States are required to make available and publish annually using a template the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate including through electronic means, the ETP performance reports for ETPs who provide services under sec. 122 of WIOA that are described in 20 CFR 680.400 through 680.530. These reports at a minimum must include, consistent with § 361.175 and with respect to each program of study that is eligible to receive funds under WIOA:
(1) The total number of participants as defined by § 361.150(a) who received training services under the adult and dislocated worker programs authorized under WIOA title I for the most recent year and the 3 preceding program years, including:
(i) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by barriers to employment;
(ii) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, and age;
(iii) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by the type of training entity for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years;
(2) The total number of participants who exit a program of study or its equivalent, including disaggregate counts by the type of training entity during the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years;
(3) The average cost-per-participant for participants who received training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years disaggregated by type of training entity;
(4) The total number of individuals exiting from the program of study (or the equivalent) with respect to all individuals engaging in the program of study (or the equivalent); and
(5) The levels of performance achieved for the primary indicators of performance identified in § 361.155(a)(1)(i) through (iv) with respect to all individuals engaging in a program of study (or the equivalent).
(b) Apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act are not required to submit ETP performance information. If a registered apprenticeship program voluntarily submits performance information to a State, the State must include this information in the report.
(c) The State must provide a mechanism of electronic access to the public ETP performance report in its annual State performance report.
(d) States must comply with any requirements from sec. 116(d)(4) of WIOA as explained in guidance issued by DOL.
(e) The Governor may designate one or more State agencies such as a State Education Agency or other State Educational Authority to assist in overseeing ETP performance and facilitating the production and dissemination of ETP performance reports. These agencies may be the same agencies that are designated as responsible for administering the ETP list as provided under 20 CFR 680.500. The Governor or such agencies, or authorities, is responsible for:
(1) Facilitating data matches between ETP records and unemployment insurance (UI) wage data in order to produce the report;
(2) The creation and dissemination of the reports as described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section;
(3) Coordinating the dissemination of the performance reports with the ETP list and the information required to accompany the list, as provided in 20 CFR 680.500.
§ 361.235
What are the reporting requirements for individual records for core Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) title I programs; the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service program, as amended by WIOA title III; and the Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV?
(a) On a quarterly basis, each State must submit to the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education, as appropriate, individual records that include demographic information, information on services received, and information on resulting outcomes, as appropriate, for each reportable individual in either of the following programs administered by the Secretary of Labor or Secretary of Education: A WIOA title I core program; the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III; or the VR program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV.
(b) For individual records submitted to the Secretary of Labor, those records may be required to be integrated across all programs administered by the Secretary of Labor in one single file.
(c) States must comply with the requirements of sec. 116(d)(2) of WIOA as explained in guidance issued by the Departments of Labor and Education.
§ 361.240
What are the requirements for data validation of State annual performance reports?
(a) States must establish procedures, consistent with guidelines issued by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education, to ensure that they submit complete annual performance reports that contain information that is valid and reliable, as required by WIOA sec. 116(d)(5).
(b) If a State fails to meet standards in paragraph (a) of this section as determined by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education, the appropriate Secretary will provide technical assistance and may require the State to develop and implement corrective actions, which may require the State to provide training for its subrecipients.
(c) The Secretaries of Labor and Education will provide training and technical assistance to States in order to implement this section. States must comply with the requirements of sec. 116(d)(5) of WIOA as explained in guidance.

# Subpart F—Description of the One-Stop Delivery System Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act

# Authority:
Secs. 503, 107, 121, 134, 189, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56033, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 361.300
What is the one-stop delivery system?
(a) The one-stop delivery system brings together workforce development, educational, and other human resource services in a seamless customer-focused service delivery network that enhances access to the programs' services and improves long-term employment outcomes for individuals receiving assistance. One-stop partners administer separately funded programs as a set of integrated streamlined services to customers.
(b) Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) assigns responsibilities at the local, State, and Federal level to ensure the creation and maintenance of a one-stop delivery system that enhances the range and quality of education and workforce development services that employers and individual customers can access.
(c) The system must include at least one comprehensive physical center in each local area as described in § 361.305.
(d) The system may also have additional arrangements to supplement the comprehensive center. These arrangements include:
(1) An affiliated site or a network of affiliated sites, where one or more partners make programs, services, and activities available, as described in § 361.310;
(2) A network of eligible one-stop partners, as described in §§ 361.400 through 361.410, through which each partner provides one or more of the programs, services, and activities that are linked, physically or technologically, to an affiliated site or access point that assures customers are provided information on the availability of career services, as well as other program services and activities, regardless of where they initially enter the public workforce system in the local area; and
(3) Specialized centers that address specific needs, including those of dislocated workers, youth, or key industry sectors, or clusters.
(e) Required one-stop partner programs must provide access to programs, services, and activities through electronic means if applicable and practicable. This is in addition to providing access to services through the mandatory comprehensive physical one-stop center and any affiliated sites or specialized centers. The provision of programs and services by electronic methods such as Web sites, telephones, or other means must improve the efficiency, coordination, and quality of one-stop partner services. Electronic delivery must not replace access to such services at a comprehensive one-stop center or be a substitute to making services available at an affiliated site if the partner is participating in an affiliated site. Electronic delivery systems must be in compliance with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIOA sec. 188 and
its implementing regulations at 29 CFR part 38.
(f) The design of the local area's one-stop delivery system must be described in the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) executed with the one-stop partners, described in § 361.500.
§ 361.305
What is a comprehensive one-stop center and what must be provided there?
(a) A comprehensive one-stop center is a physical location where job seeker and employer customers can access the programs, services, and activities of all required one-stop partners. A comprehensive one-stop center must have at least one title I staff person physically present.
(b) The comprehensive one-stop center must provide:
(1) Career services, described in § 361.430;
(2) Access to training services described in 20 CFR 680.200;
(3) Access to any employment and training activities carried out under sec. 134(d) of WIOA;
(4) Access to programs and activities carried out by one-stop partners listed in §§ 361.400 through 361.410, including the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III (Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service program); and
(5) Workforce and labor market information.
(c) Customers must have access to these programs, services, and activities during regular business days at a comprehensive one-stop center. The Local Workforce Development Board (WDB) may establish other service hours at other times to accommodate the schedules of individuals who work on regular business days. The State WDB will evaluate the hours of access to service as part of the evaluation of effectiveness in the one-stop certification process described in § 361.800(b).
(d) “Access” to each partner program and its services means:
(1) Having a program staff member physically present at the one-stop center;
(2) Having a staff member from a different partner program physically present at the one-stop center appropriately trained to provide information to customers about the programs, services, and activities available through partner programs; or
(3) Making available a direct linkage through technology to program staff who can provide meaningful information or services.
(i) A “direct linkage” means providing direct connection at the one-stop center, within a reasonable time, by phone or through a real-time Web-based communication to a program staff member who can provide program information or services to the customer.
(ii) A “direct linkage” cannot exclusively be providing a phone number or computer Web site or providing information, pamphlets, or materials.
(e) All comprehensive one-stop centers must be physically and programmatically accessible to individuals with disabilities, as described in 29 CFR part 38, the implementing regulations of WIOA sec. 188.
§ 361.310
What is an affiliated site and what must be provided there?
(a) An affiliated site, or affiliate one-stop center, is a site that makes available to job seeker and employer customers one or more of the one-stop partners' programs, services, and activities. An affiliated site does not need to provide access to every required one-stop partner program. The frequency of program staff's physical presence in the affiliated site will be determined at the local level. Affiliated sites are access points in addition to the comprehensive one-stop center(s) in each local area. If used by local areas as a part of the service delivery strategy, affiliate sites must be implemented in a manner that supplements and enhances customer access to services.
(b) As described in § 361.315, Wagner-Peyser Act employment services cannot be a stand-alone affiliated site.
(c) States, in conjunction with the Local WDBs, must examine lease agreements and property holdings throughout the one-stop delivery system in order to use property in an efficient and effective way. Where necessary and appropriate, States and Local WDBs must take expeditious
steps to align lease expiration dates with efforts to consolidate one-stop operations into service points where Wagner-Peyser Act employment services are colocated as soon as reasonably possible. These steps must be included in the State Plan.
(d) All affiliated sites must be physically and programmatically accessible to individuals with disabilities, as described in 29 CFR part 38, the implementing regulations of WIOA sec. 188.
§ 361.315
Can a stand-alone Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service office be designated as an affiliated one-stop site?
(a) Separate stand-alone Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service offices are not permitted under WIOA, as also described in 20 CFR 652.202.
(b) If Wagner-Peyser Act employment services are provided at an affiliated site, there must be at least one or more other partners in the affiliated site with a physical presence of combined staff more than 50 percent of the time the center is open. Additionally, the other partner must not be the partner administering local veterans' employment representatives, disabled veterans' outreach program specialists, or unemployment compensation programs. If Wagner-Peyser Act employment services and any of these 3 programs are provided at an affiliated site, an additional partner or partners must have a presence of combined staff in the center more than 50 percent of the time the center is open.
§ 361.320
Are there any requirements for networks of eligible one-stop partners or specialized centers?
Any network of one-stop partners or specialized centers, as described in § 361.300(d)(3), must be connected to the comprehensive one-stop center and any appropriate affiliate one-stop centers, for example, by having processes in place to make referrals to these centers and the partner programs located in them. Wagner-Peyser Act employment services cannot stand alone in a specialized center. Just as described in § 361.315 for an affiliated site, a specialized center must include other programs besides Wagner-Peyser Act employment services, local veterans' employment representatives, disabled veterans' outreach program specialists, and unemployment compensation.
§ 361.400
Who are the required one-stop partners?
(a) Section 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA identifies the entities that are required partners in the local one-stop delivery systems.
(b) The required partners are the entities responsible for administering the following programs and activities in the local area:
(1) Programs authorized under title I of WIOA, including:
(i) Adults;
(ii) Dislocated workers;
(iii) Youth;
(iv) Job Corps;
(v) YouthBuild;
(vi) Native American programs; and
(vii) Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs;
(2) The Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
), as amended by WIOA title III;
(3) The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program authorized under title II of WIOA;
(4) The Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
), as amended by WIOA title IV;
(5) The Senior Community Service Employment Program authorized under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056
et seq.
);
(6) Career and technical education programs at the postsecondary level authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
);
(7) Trade Adjustment Assistance activities authorized under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271
et seq.
);
(8) Jobs for Veterans State Grants programs authorized under chapter 41 of title 38, U.S.C.;
(9) Employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant (42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.
);
(10) Employment and training activities carried out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
(11) Programs authorized under State unemployment compensation laws (in accordance with applicable Federal law);
(12) Programs authorized under sec. 212 of the Second Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17532); and
(13) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) authorized under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), unless exempted by the Governor under § 361.405(b).
§ 361.405
Is Temporary Assistance for Needy Families a required one-stop partner?
(a) Yes, TANF, authorized under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), is a required partner.
(b) The Governor may determine that TANF will not be a required partner in the State, or within some specific local areas in the State. In this instance, the Governor must notify the Secretaries of the U.S. Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services in writing of this determination.
(c) In States, or local areas within a State, where the Governor has determined that TANF is not required to be a partner, local TANF programs may still work in collaboration or partnership with the local one-stop centers to deliver employment and training services to the TANF population unless inconsistent with the Governor's direction.
§ 361.410
What other entities may serve as one-stop partners?
(a) Other entities that carry out a workforce development program, including Federal, State, or local programs and programs in the private sector, may serve as additional partners in the one-stop delivery system if the Local WDB and chief elected official(s) approve the entity's participation.
(b) Additional partners may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Employment and training programs administered by the Social Security Administration, including the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program established under sec. 1148 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-19);
(2) Employment and training programs carried out by the Small Business Administration;
(3) Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) employment and training programs, authorized under secs. 6(d)(4) and 6(o) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4));
(4) Client Assistance Program authorized under sec. 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 732);
(5) Programs authorized under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501
et seq.
); and
(6) Other appropriate Federal, State or local programs, including, but not limited to, employment, education, and training programs provided by public libraries or in the private sector.
§ 361.415
What entity serves as the one-stop partner for a particular program in the local area?
(a) The entity that carries out the program and activities listed in § 361.400 or § 361.410, and therefore serves as the one-stop partner, is the grant recipient, administrative entity, or organization responsible for administering the funds of the specified program in the local area. The term “entity” does not include the service providers that contract with, or are subrecipients of, the local administrative entity. For programs that do not include local administrative entities, the responsible State agency must be the partner. Specific entities for particular programs are identified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. If a program or activity listed in § 361.400 is not carried out in a local area, the requirements relating to a required one-stop partner are not applicable to such program or activity in that local one-stop delivery system.
(b) For title II of WIOA, the entity or agency that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the sole entity or agency in the State or outlying area responsible for administering or supervising policy for adult education and literacy activities in the State or outlying area. The State eligible entity or agency may delegate its responsibilities under paragraph (a) of this section to one or
more eligible providers or consortium of eligible providers.
(c) For the VR program, authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV, the entity that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the designated State agencies or designated State units specified under sec. 101(a)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act that is primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation, or vocational and other rehabilitation, of individuals with disabilities.
(d) Under WIOA title I, the national programs, including Job Corps, the Native American program, YouthBuild, and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker programs are required one-stop partners. The entity for the Native American program, YouthBuild, and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker programs is the grantee of those respective programs. The entity for Job Corps is the Job Corps center.
(e) For the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, the entity that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the eligible recipient or recipients at the postsecondary level, or a consortium of eligible recipients at the postsecondary level in the local area. The eligible recipient at the postsecondary level may also request assistance from the State eligible agency in completing its responsibilities under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 361.420
What are the roles and responsibilities of the required one-stop partners?
Each required partner must:
(a) Provide access to its programs or activities through the one-stop delivery system, in addition to any other appropriate locations;
(b) Use a portion of funds made available to the partner's program, to the extent consistent with the Federal law authorizing the partner's program and with Federal cost principles in 2 CFR parts 200 and 3474 (requiring, among other things, that costs are allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable), to:
(1) Provide applicable career services; and
(2) Work collaboratively with the State and Local WDBs to establish and maintain the one-stop delivery system. This includes jointly funding the one-stop infrastructure through partner contributions that are based upon:
(i) A reasonable cost allocation methodology by which infrastructure costs are charged to each partner based on proportionate use and relative benefit received;
(ii) Federal cost principles; and
(iii) Any local administrative cost requirements in the Federal law authorizing the partner's program. (This is further described in § 361.700.)
(c) Enter into an MOU with the Local WDB relating to the operation of the one-stop delivery system that meets the requirements of § 361.500(b);
(d) Participate in the operation of the one-stop delivery system consistent with the terms of the MOU, requirements of authorizing laws, the Federal cost principles, and all other applicable legal requirements; and
(e) Provide representation on the State and Local WDBs as required and participate in Board committees as needed.
§ 361.425
What are the applicable career services that must be provided through the one-stop delivery system by required one-stop partners?
(a) The applicable career services to be delivered by required one-stop partners are those services listed in § 361.430 that are authorized to be provided under each partner's program.
(b) One-stop centers provide services to individual customers based on individual needs, including the seamless delivery of multiple services to individual customers. There is no required sequence of services.
§ 361.430
What are career services?
Career services, as identified in sec. 134(c)(2) of WIOA, consist of three types:
(a) Basic career services must be made available and, at a minimum, must include the following services, as consistent with allowable program activities and Federal cost principles:
(1) Determinations of whether the individual is eligible to receive assistance from the adult, dislocated worker, or youth programs;
(2) Outreach, intake (including worker profiling), and orientation to information and other services available through the one-stop delivery system. For the TANF program, States must provide individuals with the opportunity to initiate an application for TANF assistance and non-assistance benefits and services, which could be implemented through the provision of paper application forms or links to the application Web site;
(3) Initial assessment of skill levels including literacy, numeracy, and English language proficiency, as well as aptitudes, abilities (including skills gaps), and supportive services needs;
(4) Labor exchange services, including—
(i) Job search and placement assistance, and, when needed by an individual, career counseling, including—
(A) Provision of information on in-demand industry sectors and occupations (as defined in sec. 3(23) of WIOA); and
(B) Provision of information on nontraditional employment; and
(ii) Appropriate recruitment and other business services on behalf of employers, including information and referrals to specialized business services other than those traditionally offered through the one-stop delivery system;
(5) Provision of referrals to and coordination of activities with other programs and services, including programs and services within the one-stop delivery system and, when appropriate, other workforce development programs;
(6) Provision of workforce and labor market employment statistics information, including the provision of accurate information relating to local, regional, and national labor market areas, including—
(i) Job vacancy listings in labor market areas;
(ii) Information on job skills necessary to obtain the vacant jobs listed; and
(iii) Information relating to local occupations in demand and the earnings, skill requirements, and opportunities for advancement for those jobs;
(7) Provision of performance information and program cost information on eligible providers of education, training, and workforce services by program and type of providers;
(8) Provision of information, in usable and understandable formats and languages, about how the local area is performing on local performance accountability measures, as well as any additional performance information relating to the area's one-stop delivery system;
(9) Provision of information, in usable and understandable formats and languages, relating to the availability of supportive services or assistance, and appropriate referrals to those services and assistance, including: Child care; child support; medical or child health assistance available through the State's Medicaid program and Children's Health Insurance Program; benefits under SNAP; assistance through the earned income tax credit; and assistance under a State program for TANF, and other supportive services and transportation provided through that program;
(10) Provision of information and meaningful assistance to individuals seeking assistance in filing a claim for unemployment compensation.
(i) “Meaningful assistance” means:
(A) Providing assistance on-site using staff who are well-trained in unemployment compensation claims filing and the rights and responsibilities of claimants; or
(B) Providing assistance by phone or via other technology, as long as the assistance is provided by trained and available staff and within a reasonable time.
(ii) The costs associated in providing this assistance may be paid for by the State's unemployment insurance program, or the WIOA adult or dislocated worker programs, or some combination thereof.
(11) Assistance in establishing eligibility for programs of financial aid assistance for training and education programs not provided under WIOA.
(b) Individualized career services must be made available if determined
to be appropriate in order for an individual to obtain or retain employment. These services include the following services, as consistent with program requirements and Federal cost principles:
(1) Comprehensive and specialized assessments of the skill levels and service needs of adults and dislocated workers, which may include—
(i) Diagnostic testing and use of other assessment tools; and
(ii) In-depth interviewing and evaluation to identify employment barriers and appropriate employment goals;
(2) Development of an individual employment plan, to identify the employment goals, appropriate achievement objectives, and appropriate combination of services for the participant to achieve his or her employment goals, including the list of, and information about, the eligible training providers (as described in 20 CFR 680.180);
(3) Group counseling;
(4) Individual counseling;
(5) Career planning;
(6) Short-term pre-vocational services including development of learning skills, communication skills, interviewing skills, punctuality, personal maintenance skills, and professional conduct services to prepare individuals for unsubsidized employment or training;
(7) Internships and work experiences that are linked to careers (as described in 20 CFR 680.170);
(8) Workforce preparation activities;
(9) Financial literacy services as described in sec. 129(b)(2)(D) of WIOA and 20 CFR 681.500;
(10) Out-of-area job search assistance and relocation assistance; and
(11) English language acquisition and integrated education and training programs.
(c) Follow-up services must be provided, as appropriate, including: Counseling regarding the workplace, for participants in adult or dislocated worker workforce investment activities who are placed in unsubsidized employment, for up to 12 months after the first day of employment.
(d) In addition to the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, TANF agencies must identify employment services and related support being provided by the TANF program (within the local area) that qualify as career services and ensure access to them via the local one-stop delivery system.
§ 361.435
What are the business services provided through the one-stop delivery system, and how are they provided?
(a) Certain career services must be made available to local employers, specifically labor exchange activities and labor market information described in § 361.430(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(6). Local areas must establish and develop relationships and networks with large and small employers and their intermediaries. Local areas also must develop, convene, or implement industry or sector partnerships.
(b) Customized business services may be provided to employers, employer associations, or other such organizations. These services are tailored for specific employers and may include:
(1) Customized screening and referral of qualified participants in training services to employers;
(2) Customized services to employers, employer associations, or other such organizations, on employment-related issues;
(3) Customized recruitment events and related services for employers including targeted job fairs;
(4) Human resource consultation services, including but not limited to assistance with:
(i) Writing/reviewing job descriptions and employee handbooks;
(ii) Developing performance evaluation and personnel policies;
(iii) Creating orientation sessions for new workers;
(iv) Honing job interview techniques for efficiency and compliance;
(v) Analyzing employee turnover;
(vi) Creating job accommodations and using assistive technologies; or
(vii) Explaining labor and employment laws to help employers comply with discrimination, wage/hour, and safety/health regulations;
(5) Customized labor market information for specific employers, sectors, industries or clusters; and
(6) Other similar customized services.
(c) Local areas may also provide other business services and strategies that meet the workforce investment
needs of area employers, in accordance with partner programs' statutory requirements and consistent with Federal cost principles. These business services may be provided through effective business intermediaries working in conjunction with the Local WDB, or through the use of economic development, philanthropic, and other public and private resources in a manner determined appropriate by the Local WDB and in cooperation with the State. Allowable activities, consistent with each partner's authorized activities, include, but are not limited to:
(1) Developing and implementing industry sector strategies (including strategies involving industry partnerships, regional skills alliances, industry skill panels, and sectoral skills partnerships);
(2) Customized assistance or referral for assistance in the development of a registered apprenticeship program;
(3) Developing and delivering innovative workforce investment services and strategies for area employers, which may include career pathways, skills upgrading, skill standard development and certification for recognized postsecondary credential or other employer use, and other effective initiatives for meeting the workforce investment needs of area employers and workers;
(4) Assistance to area employers in managing reductions in force in coordination with rapid response activities and with strategies for the aversion of layoffs, which may include strategies such as early identification of firms at risk of layoffs, use of feasibility studies to assess the needs of and options for at-risk firms, and the delivery of employment and training activities to address risk factors;
(5) The marketing of business services to appropriate area employers, including small and mid-sized employers; and
(6) Assisting employers with accessing local, State, and Federal tax credits.
(d) All business services and strategies must be reflected in the local plan, described in 20 CFR 679.560(b)(3).
§ 361.440
When may a fee be charged for the business services in this subpart?
(a) There is no requirement that a fee-for-service be charged to employers.
(b) No fee may be charged for services provided in § 361.435(a).
(c) A fee may be charged for services provided under § 361.435(b) and (c). Services provided under § 361.435(c) may be provided through effective business intermediaries working in conjunction with the Local WDB and may also be provided on a fee-for-service basis or through the leveraging of economic development, philanthropic, and other public and private resources in a manner determined appropriate by the Local WDB. The Local WDB may examine the services provided compared with the assets and resources available within the local one-stop delivery system and through its partners to determine an appropriate cost structure for services, if any.
(d) Any fees earned are recognized as program income and must be expended by the partner in accordance with the partner program's authorizing statute, implementing regulations, and Federal cost principles identified in Uniform Guidance.
§ 361.500
What is the Memorandum of Understanding for the one-stop delivery system and what must be included in the Memorandum of Understanding?
(a) The MOU is the product of local discussion and negotiation, and is an agreement developed and executed between the Local WDB and the one-stop partners, with the agreement of the chief elected official and the one-stop partners, relating to the operation of the one-stop delivery system in the local area. Two or more local areas in a region may develop a single joint MOU, if they are in a region that has submitted a regional plan under sec. 106 of WIOA.
(b) The MOU must include:
(1) A description of services to be provided through the one-stop delivery system, including the manner in which the services will be coordinated and delivered through the system;
(2) Agreement on funding the costs of the services and the operating costs of the system, including:
(i) Funding of infrastructure costs of one-stop centers in accordance with §§ 361.700 through 361.755; and
(ii) Funding of the shared services and operating costs of the one-stop delivery system described in § 361.760;
(3) Methods for referring individuals between the one-stop operators and partners for appropriate services and activities;
(4) Methods to ensure that the needs of workers, youth, and individuals with barriers to employment, including individuals with disabilities, are addressed in providing access to services, including access to technology and materials that are available through the one-stop delivery system;
(5) The duration of the MOU and procedures for amending it; and
(6) Assurances that each MOU will be reviewed, and if substantial changes have occurred, renewed, not less than once every 3-year period to ensure appropriate funding and delivery of services.
(c) The MOU may contain any other provisions agreed to by the parties that are consistent with WIOA title I, the authorizing statutes and regulations of one-stop partner programs, and the WIOA regulations.
(d) When fully executed, the MOU must contain the signatures of the Local WDB, one-stop partners, the chief elected official(s), and the time period in which the agreement is effective. The MOU must be updated not less than every 3 years to reflect any changes in the signatory official of the Board, one-stop partners, and chief elected officials, or one-stop infrastructure funding.
(e) If a one-stop partner appeal to the State regarding infrastructure costs, using the process described in § 361.750, results in a change to the one-stop partner's infrastructure cost contributions, the MOU must be updated to reflect the final one-stop partner infrastructure cost contributions.
§ 361.505
Is there a single Memorandum of Understanding for the local area, or must there be different Memoranda of Understanding between the Local Workforce Development Board and each partner?
(a) A single “umbrella” MOU may be developed that addresses the issues relating to the local one-stop delivery system for the Local WDB, chief elected official and all partners. Alternatively, the Local WDB (with agreement of chief elected official) may enter into separate agreements between each partner or groups of partners.
(b) Under either approach, the requirements described in § 361.500 apply. Since funds are generally appropriated annually, the Local WDB may negotiate financial agreements with each partner annually to update funding of services and operating costs of the system under the MOU.
§ 361.510
How must the Memorandum of Understanding be negotiated?
(a) WIOA emphasizes full and effective partnerships between Local WDBs, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners. Local WDBs and partners must enter into good-faith negotiations. Local WDBs, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners may also request assistance from a State agency responsible for administering the partner program, the Governor, State WDB, or other appropriate parties on other aspects of the MOU.
(b) Local WDBs and one-stop partners must establish, in the MOU, how they will fund the infrastructure costs and other shared costs of the one-stop centers. If agreement regarding infrastructure costs is not reached when other sections of the MOU are ready, an interim infrastructure funding agreement may be included instead, as described in § 361.715(c). Once agreement on infrastructure funding is reached, the Local WDB and one-stop partners must amend the MOU to include the infrastructure funding of the one-stop centers. Infrastructure funding is described in detail in §§ 361.700 through 361.760.
(c) The Local WDB must report to the State WDB, Governor, and relevant
State agency when MOU negotiations with one-stop partners have reached an impasse.
(1) The Local WDB and partners must document the negotiations and efforts that have taken place in the MOU. The State WDB, one-stop partner programs, and the Governor may consult with the appropriate Federal agencies to address impasse situations related to issues other than infrastructure funding after attempting to address the impasse. Impasses related to infrastructure cost funding must be resolved using the State infrastructure cost funding mechanism described in § 361.730.
(2) The Local WDB must report failure to execute an MOU with a required partner to the Governor, State WDB, and the State agency responsible for administering the partner's program. Additionally, if the State cannot assist the Local WDB in resolving the impasse, the Governor or the State WDB must report the failure to the Secretary of Labor and to the head of any other Federal agency with responsibility for oversight of a partner's program.
§ 361.600
Who may operate one-stop centers?
(a) One-stop operators may be a single entity (public, private, or nonprofit) or a consortium of entities. If the consortium of entities is one of one-stop partners, it must include a minimum of three of the one-stop partners described in § 361.400.
(b) The one-stop operator may operate one or more one-stop centers. There may be more than one one-stop operator in a local area.
(c) The types of entities that may be a one-stop operator include:
(1) An institution of higher education;
(2) An Employment Service State agency established under the Wagner-Peyser Act;
(3) A community-based organization, nonprofit organization, or workforce intermediary;
(4) A private for-profit entity;
(5) A government agency;
(6) A Local WDB, with the approval of the chief elected official and the Governor; or
(7) Another interested organization or entity, which is capable of carrying out the duties of the one-stop operator. Examples may include a local chamber of commerce or other business organization, or a labor organization.
(d) Elementary schools and secondary schools are not eligible as one-stop operators, except that a nontraditional public secondary school such as a night school, adult school, or an area career and technical education school may be selected.
(e) The State and Local WDBs must ensure that, in carrying out WIOA programs and activities, one-stop operators:
(1) Disclose any potential conflicts of interest arising from the relationships of the operators with particular training service providers or other service providers (further discussed in 20 CFR 679.430);
(2) Do not establish practices that create disincentives to providing services to individuals with barriers to employment who may require longer-term career and training services; and
(3) Comply with Federal regulations and procurement policies relating to the calculation and use of profits, including those at 20 CFR 683.295, the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and other applicable regulations and policies.
§ 361.605
How is the one-stop operator selected?
(a) Consistent with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Local WDB must select the one-stop operator through a competitive process, as required by sec. 121(d)(2)(A) of WIOA, at least once every 4 years. A State may require, or a Local WDB may choose to implement, a competitive selection process more than once every 4 years.
(b) In instances in which a State is conducting the competitive process described in paragraph (a) of this section, the State must follow the same policies and procedures it uses for procurement with non-Federal funds.
(c) All other non-Federal entities, including subrecipients of a State (such as local areas), must use a competitive process based on local procurement policies and procedures and the principles of competitive procurement in
the Uniform Guidance set out at 2 CFR 200.318 through 200.326. All references to “noncompetitive proposals” in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.320(f) will be read as “sole source procurement” for the purposes of implementing this section.
(d) Entities must prepare written documentation explaining the determination concerning the nature of the competitive process to be followed in selecting a one-stop operator.
§ 361.610
When is the sole-source selection of one-stop operators appropriate, and how is it conducted?
(a) States may select a one-stop operator through sole source selection when allowed under the same policies and procedures used for competitive procurement with non-Federal funds, while other non-Federal entities including subrecipients of a State (such as local areas) may select a one-stop operator through sole selection when consistent with local procurement policies and procedures and the Uniform Guidance set out at 2 CFR 200.320.
(b) In the event that sole source procurement is determined necessary and reasonable, in accordance with § 361.605(c), written documentation must be prepared and maintained concerning the entire process of making such a selection.
(c) Such sole source procurement must include appropriate conflict of interest policies and procedures. These policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in 20 CFR 679.430 for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflict of interest.
(d) A Local WDB may be selected as a one-stop operator through sole source procurement only with agreement of the chief elected official in the local area and the Governor. The Local WDB must establish sufficient conflict of interest policies and procedures and these policies and procedures must be approved by the Governor.
§ 361.615
May an entity currently serving as one-stop operator compete to be a one-stop operator under the procurement requirements of this subpart?
(a) Local WDBs may compete for and be selected as one-stop operators, as long as appropriate firewalls and conflict of interest policies and procedures are in place. These policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in 20 CFR 679.430 for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflict of interest.
(b) State and local agencies may compete for and be selected as one-stop operators by the Local WDB, as long as appropriate firewalls and conflict of interest policies and procedures are in place. These policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in 20 CFR 679.430 for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflict of interest.
(c) In the case of single-area States where the State WDB serves as the Local WDB, the State agency is eligible to compete for and be selected as operator as long as appropriate firewalls and conflict of interest policies are in place and followed for the competition. These policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in 20 CFR 679.430 for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflicts of interest.
§ 361.620
What is the one-stop operator's role?
(a) At a minimum, the one-stop operator must coordinate the service delivery of required one-stop partners and service providers. Local WDBs may establish additional roles of one-stop operator, including, but not limited to: Coordinating service providers across the one-stop delivery system, being the primary provider of services within the center, providing some of the services within the center, or coordinating service delivery in a multi-center area, which may include affiliated sites. The competition for a one-stop operator must clearly articulate the role of the one-stop operator.
(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a one-stop operator may not perform the following functions: Convene system stakeholders to assist in the development of the local plan; prepare and submit local plans (as required under sec. 107 of WIOA); be responsible for oversight of itself; manage or significantly participate in the competitive selection process for one-stop operators; select or terminate one-stop operators, career services, and
youth providers; negotiate local performance accountability measures; or develop and submit budget for activities of the Local WDB in the local area.
(2) An entity serving as a one-stop operator, that also serves a different role within the one-stop delivery system, may perform some or all of these functions when it is acting in its other role, if it has established sufficient firewalls and conflict of interest policies and procedures. The policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in 20 CFR 679.430 for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflict of interest.
§ 361.625
Can a one-stop operator also be a service provider?
Yes, but there must be appropriate firewalls in place in regards to the competition, and subsequent oversight, monitoring, and evaluation of performance of the service provider. The operator cannot develop, manage, or conduct the competition of a service provider in which it intends to compete. In cases where an operator is also a service provider, there must be firewalls and internal controls within the operator-service provider entity, as well as specific policies and procedures at the Local WDB level regarding oversight, monitoring, and evaluation of performance of the service provider. The firewalls must conform to the specifications in 20 CFR 679.430 for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflicts of interest.
§ 361.630
Can State merit staff still work in a one-stop center where the operator is not a governmental entity?
Yes. State merit staff can continue to perform functions and activities in the one-stop center. The Local WDB and one-stop operator must establish a system for management of merit staff in accordance with State policies and procedures. Continued use of State merit staff for the provision of Wagner-Peyser Act services or services from other programs with merit staffing requirements must be included in the competition for and final contract with the one-stop operator when Wagner-Peyser Act services or services from other programs with merit staffing requirements are being provided.
§ 361.635
What is the compliance date of the provisions of this subpart?
(a) No later than July 1, 2017, one-stop operators selected under the competitive process described in this subpart must be in place and operating the one-stop center.
(b) By November 17, 2016, every Local WDB must demonstrate it is taking steps to prepare for competition of its one-stop operator. This demonstration may include, but is not limited to, market research, requests for information, and conducting a cost and price analysis.
§ 361.700
What are the one-stop infrastructure costs?
(a) Infrastructure costs of one-stop centers are nonpersonnel costs that are necessary for the general operation of the one-stop center, including:
(1) Rental of the facilities;
(2) Utilities and maintenance;
(3) Equipment (including assessment-related products and assistive technology for individuals with disabilities); and
(4) Technology to facilitate access to the one-stop center, including technology used for the center's planning and outreach activities.
(b) Local WDBs may consider common identifier costs as costs of one-stop infrastructure.
(c) Each entity that carries out a program or activities in a local one-stop center, described in §§ 361.400 through 361.410, must use a portion of the funds available for the program and activities to maintain the one-stop delivery system, including payment of the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers. These payments must be in accordance with this subpart; Federal cost principles, which require that all costs must be allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable to the program; and all other applicable legal requirements.
§ 361.705
What guidance must the Governor issue regarding one-stop infrastructure funding?
(a) The Governor, after consultation with chief elected officials, the State
WDB, and Local WDBs, and consistent with guidance and policies provided by the State WDB, must develop and issue guidance for use by local areas, specifically:
(1) Guidelines for State-administered one-stop partner programs for determining such programs' contributions to a one-stop delivery system, based on such programs' proportionate use of such system, and relative benefit received, consistent with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200, including determining funding for the costs of infrastructure; and
(2) Guidance to assist Local WDBs, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners in local areas in determining equitable and stable methods of funding the costs of infrastructure at one-stop centers based on proportionate use and relative benefit received, and consistent with Federal cost principles contained in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200.
(b) The guidance must include:
(1) The appropriate roles of the one-stop partner programs in identifying one-stop infrastructure costs;
(2) Approaches to facilitate equitable and efficient cost allocation that results in a reasonable cost allocation methodology where infrastructure costs are charged to each partner based on its proportionate use of the one-stop centers and relative benefit received, consistent with Federal cost principles at 2 CFR part 200; and
(3) The timelines regarding notification to the Governor for not reaching local agreement and triggering the State funding mechanism described in § 361.730, and timelines for a one-stop partner to submit an appeal in the State funding mechanism.
§ 361.710
How are infrastructure costs funded?
Infrastructure costs are funded either through the local funding mechanism described in § 361.715 or through the State funding mechanism described in § 361.730.
§ 361.715
How are one-stop infrastructure costs funded in the local funding mechanism?
(a) In the local funding mechanism, the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners agree to amounts and methods of calculating amounts each partner will contribute for one-stop infrastructure funding, include the infrastructure funding terms in the MOU, and sign the MOU. The local funding mechanism must meet all of the following requirements:
(1) The infrastructure costs are funded through cash and fairly evaluated non-cash and third-party in-kind partner contributions and include any funding from philanthropic organizations or other private entities, or through other alternative financing options, to provide a stable and equitable funding stream for ongoing one-stop delivery system operations;
(2) Contributions must be negotiated between one-stop partners, chief elected officials, and the Local WDB and the amount to be contributed must be included in the MOU;
(3) The one-stop partner program's proportionate share of funding must be calculated in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200 based upon a reasonable cost allocation methodology whereby infrastructure costs are charged to each partner in proportion to its use of the one-stop center, relative to benefits received. Such costs must also be allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable;
(4) Partner shares must be periodically reviewed and reconciled against actual costs incurred, and adjusted to ensure that actual costs charged to any one-stop partners are proportionate to the use of the one-stop center and relative to the benefit received by the one-stop partners and their respective programs or activities.
(b) In developing the section of the MOU on one-stop infrastructure funding described in § 361.755, the Local WDB and chief elected officials will:
(1) Ensure that the one-stop partners adhere to the guidance identified in § 361.705 on one-stop delivery system infrastructure costs.
(2) Work with one-stop partners to achieve consensus and informally mediate any possible conflicts or disagreements among one-stop partners.
(3) Provide technical assistance to new one-stop partners and local grant recipients to ensure that those entities are informed and knowledgeable of the elements contained in the MOU and the one-stop infrastructure costs arrangement.
(c) The MOU may include an interim infrastructure funding agreement, including as much detail as the Local WDB has negotiated with one-stop partners, if all other parts of the MOU have been negotiated, in order to allow the partner programs to operate in the one-stop centers. The interim infrastructure funding agreement must be finalized within 6 months of when the MOU is signed. If the interim infrastructure funding agreement is not finalized within that timeframe, the Local WDB must notify the Governor, as described in § 361.725.
§ 361.720
What funds are used to pay for infrastructure costs in the local one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) In the local funding mechanism, one-stop partner programs may determine what funds they will use to pay for infrastructure costs. The use of these funds must be in accordance with the requirements in this subpart, and with the relevant partner's authorizing statutes and regulations, including, for example, prohibitions against supplanting non-Federal resources, statutory limitations on administrative costs, and all other applicable legal requirements. In the case of partners administering programs authorized by title I of WIOA, these infrastructure costs may be considered program costs. In the case of partners administering adult education and literacy programs authorized by title II of WIOA, these funds must include Federal funds made available for the local administration of adult education and literacy programs authorized by title II of WIOA. These funds may also include non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind or third-party contributions. In the case of partners administering the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, funds used to pay for infrastructure costs may include funds available for local administrative expenses, non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind or third-party contributions, and may include other funds made available by the State.
(b) There are no specific caps on the amount or percent of overall funding a one-stop partner may contribute to fund infrastructure costs under the local funding mechanism, except that contributions for administrative costs may not exceed the amount available for administrative costs under the authorizing statute of the partner program. However, amounts contributed for infrastructure costs must be allowable and based on proportionate use of the one-stop centers and relative benefit received by the partner program, taking into account the total cost of the one-stop infrastructure as well as alternate financing options, and must be consistent with 2 CFR part 200, including the Federal cost principles.
(c) Cash, non-cash, and third-party in-kind contributions may be provided by one-stop partners to cover their proportionate share of infrastructure costs.
(1) Cash contributions are cash funds provided to the Local WDB or its designee by one-stop partners, either directly or by an interagency transfer.
(2) Non-cash contributions are comprised of—
(i) Expenditures incurred by one-stop partners on behalf of the one-stop center; and
(ii) Non-cash contributions or goods or services contributed by a partner program and used by the one-stop center.
(3) Non-cash contributions, especially those set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, must be valued consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 to ensure they are fairly evaluated and meet the partners' proportionate share.
(4) Third-party in-kind contributions are:
(i) Contributions of space, equipment, technology, non-personnel services, or other like items to support the infrastructure costs associated with one-stop operations, by a non-one-stop partner to support the one-stop center in general, not a specific partner; or
(ii) Contributions by a non-one-stop partner of space, equipment, technology, non-personnel services, or other like items to support the infrastructure costs associated with one-stop operations, to a one-stop partner to support its proportionate share of one-stop infrastructure costs.
(iii) In-kind contributions described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section must be valued consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 and reconciled on a regular basis to ensure they are fairly evaluated and meet the proportionate share of the partner.
(5) All partner contributions, regardless of the type, must be reconciled on a regular basis (
i.e.,
monthly or quarterly), comparing actual expenses incurred to relative benefits received, to ensure each partner program is contributing its proportionate share in accordance with the terms of the MOU.
§ 361.725
What happens if consensus on infrastructure funding is not reached at the local level between the Local Workforce Development Board, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners?
With regard to negotiations for infrastructure funding for Program Year (PY) 2017 and for each subsequent program year thereafter, if the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners do not reach consensus on methods of sufficiently funding local infrastructure through the local funding mechanism in accordance with the Governor's guidance issued under § 361.705 and consistent with the regulations in §§ 361.715 and 361.720, and include that consensus agreement in the signed MOU, then the Local WDB must notify the Governor by the deadline established by the Governor under § 361.705(b)(3). Once notified, the Governor must administer funding through the State funding mechanism, as described in §§ 361.730 through 361.738, for the program year impacted by the local area's failure to reach consensus.
§ 361.730
What is the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) Consistent with sec. 121(h)(1)(A)(i)(II) of WIOA, if the Local WDB, chief elected official, and one-stop partners in a local area do not reach consensus agreement on methods of sufficiently funding the costs of infrastructure of one-stop centers for a program year, the State funding mechanism is applicable to the local area for that program year.
(b) In the State funding mechanism, the Governor, subject to the limitations in paragraph (c) of this section, determines one-stop partner contributions after consultation with the chief elected officials, Local WDBs, and the State WDB. This determination involves:
(1) The application of a budget for one-stop infrastructure costs as described in § 361.735, based on either agreement reached in the local area negotiations or the State WDB formula outlined in § 361.745;
(2) The determination of each local one-stop partner program's proportionate use of the one-stop delivery system and relative benefit received, consistent with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, including the Federal cost principles, the partner programs' authorizing laws and regulations, and other applicable legal requirements described in § 361.736; and
(3) The calculation of required statewide program caps on contributions to infrastructure costs from one-stop partner programs in areas operating under the State funding mechanism as described in § 361.738.
(c) In certain situations, the Governor does not determine the infrastructure cost contributions for some one-stop partner programs under the State funding mechanism.
(1) The Governor will not determine the contribution amounts for infrastructure funds for Native American program grantees described in 20 CFR part 684. The appropriate portion of funds to be provided by Native American program grantees to pay for one-stop infrastructure must be determined as part of the development of the MOU described in § 361.500 and specified in that MOU.
(2) In States in which the policy-making authority is placed in an entity or official that is independent of the authority of the Governor with respect to the funds provided for adult education and literacy activities authorized under title II of WIOA, postsecondary career and technical education
activities authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, or VR services authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (other than sec. 112 or part C), as amended by WIOA title IV, the determination of the amount each of the applicable partners must contribute to assist in paying the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers must be made by the official or chief officer of the entity with such authority, in consultation with the Governor.
(d) Any duty, ability, choice, responsibility, or other action otherwise related to the determination of infrastructure costs contributions that is assigned to the Governor in §§ 361.730 through 361.745 also applies to this decision-making process performed by the official or chief officer described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
§ 361.731
What are the steps to determine the amount to be paid under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) To initiate the State funding mechanism, a Local WDB that has not reached consensus on methods of sufficiently funding local infrastructure through the local funding mechanism as provided in § 361.725 must notify the Governor by the deadline established by the Governor under § 361.705(b)(3).
(b) Once a Local WDB has informed the Governor that no consensus has been reached:
(1) The Local WDB must provide the Governor with local negotiation materials in accordance with § 361.735(a).
(2) The Governor must determine the one-stop center budget by either:
(i) Accepting a budget previously agreed upon by partner programs in the local negotiations, in accordance with § 361.735(b)(1); or
(ii) Creating a budget for the one-stop center using the State WDB formula (described in § 361.745) in accordance with § 361.735(b)(3).
(3) The Governor then must establish a cost allocation methodology to determine the one-stop partner programs' proportionate shares of infrastructure costs, in accordance with § 361.736.
(4)(i) Using the methodology established under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, and taking into consideration the factors concerning individual partner programs listed in § 361.737(b)(2), the Governor must determine each partner's proportionate share of the infrastructure costs, in accordance with § 361.737(b)(1), and
(ii) In accordance with § 361.730(c), in some instances, the Governor does not determine a partner program's proportionate share of infrastructure funding costs, in which case it must be determined by the entities named in § 361.730(c)(1) and (2).
(5) The Governor must then calculate the statewide caps on the amounts that partner programs may be required to contribute toward infrastructure funding, according to the steps found at § 361.738(a)(1) through (4).
(6) The Governor must ensure that the aggregate total of the infrastructure contributions according to proportionate share required of all local partner programs in local areas under the State funding mechanism do not exceed the cap for that particular program, in accordance with § 361.738(b)(1). If the total does not exceed the cap, the Governor must direct each one-stop partner program to pay the amount determined under § 361.737(a) toward the infrastructure funding costs of the one-stop center. If the total does exceed the cap, then to determine the amount to direct each one-stop program to pay, the Governor may:
(i) Ascertain, in accordance with § 361.738(b)(2)(i), whether the local partner or partners whose proportionate shares are calculated above the individual program caps are willing to voluntarily contribute above the capped amount to equal that program's proportionate share; or
(ii) Choose from the options provided in § 361.738(b)(2)(ii), including having the local area re-enter negotiations to reassess each one-stop partner's proportionate share and make adjustments or identify alternate sources of funding to make up the difference between the capped amount and the proportionate share of infrastructure funding of the one-stop partner.
(7) If none of the solutions given in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section prove to be viable, the Governor must reassess the proportionate shares
of each one-stop partner so that the aggregate amount attributable to the local partners for each program is less than that program's cap amount. Upon such reassessment, the Governor must direct each one-stop partner program to pay the reassessed amount toward the infrastructure funding costs of the one-stop center.
§ 361.735
How are infrastructure cost budgets for the one-stop centers in a local area determined in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) Local WDBs must provide to the Governor appropriate and relevant materials and documents used in the negotiations under the local funding mechanism, including but not limited to: the local WIOA plan, the cost allocation method or methods proposed by the partners to be used in determining proportionate share, the proposed amounts or budget to fund infrastructure, the amount of total partner funds included, the type of funds or non-cash contributions, proposed one-stop center budgets, and any agreed upon or proposed MOUs.
(b)(1) If a local area has reached agreement as to the infrastructure budget for the one-stop centers in the local area, it must provide this budget to the Governor as required by paragraph (a) of this section. If, as a result of the agreed upon infrastructure budget, only the individual programmatic contributions to infrastructure funding based upon proportionate use of the one-stop centers and relative benefit received are at issue, the Governor may accept the budget, from which the Governor must calculate each partner's contribution consistent with the cost allocation methodologies contained in the Uniform Guidance found in 2 CFR part 200, as described in § 361.736.
(2) The Governor may also take into consideration the extent to which the partners in the local area have agreed in determining the proportionate shares, including any agreements reached at the local level by one or more partners, as well as any other element or product of the negotiating process provided to the Governor as required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) If a local area has not reached agreement as to the infrastructure budget for the one-stop centers in the local area, or if the Governor determines that the agreed upon budget does not adequately meet the needs of the local area or does not reasonably work within the confines of the local area's resources in accordance with the Governor's one-stop budget guidance (which is required to be issued by WIOA sec. 121(h)(1)(B) and under § 361.705), then, in accordance with § 361.745, the Governor must use the formula developed by the State WDB based on at least the factors required under § 361.745, and any associated weights to determine the local area budget.
§ 361.736
How does the Governor establish a cost allocation methodology used to determine the one-stop partner programs' proportionate shares of infrastructure costs under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
Once the appropriate budget is determined for a local area through either method described in § 361.735 (by acceptance of a budget agreed upon in local negotiation or by the Governor applying the formula detailed in § 361.745), the Governor must determine the appropriate cost allocation methodology to be applied to the one-stop partners in such local area, consistent with the Federal cost principles permitted under 2 CFR part 200, to fund the infrastructure budget.
§ 361.737
How are one-stop partner programs' proportionate shares of infrastructure costs determined under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) The Governor must direct the one-stop partners in each local area that have not reached agreement under the local funding mechanism to pay what the Governor determines is each partner program's proportionate share of infrastructure funds for that area, subject to the application of the caps described in § 361.738.
(b)(1) The Governor must use the cost allocation methodology—as determined under § 361.736—to determine each partner's proportionate share of the infrastructure costs under the State funding mechanism, subject to
considering the factors described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) In determining each partner program's proportionate share of infrastructure costs, the Governor must take into account the costs of administration of the one-stop delivery system for purposes not related to one-stop centers for each partner (such as costs associated with maintaining the Local WDB or information technology systems), as well as the statutory requirements for each partner program, the partner program's ability to fulfill such requirements, and all other applicable legal requirements. The Governor may also take into consideration the extent to which the partners in the local area have agreed in determining the proportionate shares, including any agreements reached at the local level by one or more partners, as well as any other materials or documents of the negotiating process, which must be provided to the Governor by the Local WDB and described in § 361.735(a).
§ 361.738
How are statewide caps on the contributions for one-stop infrastructure funding determined in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) The Governor must calculate the statewide cap on the contributions for one-stop infrastructure funding required to be provided by each one-stop partner program for those local areas that have not reached agreement. The cap is the amount determined under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, which the Governor derives by:
(1) First, determining the amount resulting from applying the percentage for the corresponding one-stop partner program provided in paragraph (d) of this section to the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out the one-stop partner program in the State for the applicable fiscal year;
(2) Second, selecting a factor (or factors) that reasonably indicates the use of one-stop centers in the State, applying such factor(s) to all local areas in the State, and determining the percentage of such factor(s) applicable to the local areas that reached agreement under the local funding mechanism in the State;
(3) Third, determining the amount resulting from applying the percentage determined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to the amount determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the one-stop partner program; and
(4) Fourth, determining the amount that results from subtracting the amount determined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section from the amount determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The outcome of this final calculation results in the partner program's cap.
(b)(1) The Governor must ensure that the funds required to be contributed by each partner program in the local areas in the State under the State funding mechanism, in aggregate, do not exceed the statewide cap for each program as determined under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the contributions initially determined under § 361.737 would exceed the applicable cap determined under paragraph (a) of this section, the Governor may:
(i) Ascertain if the one-stop partner whose contribution would otherwise exceed the cap determined under paragraph (a) of this section will voluntarily contribute above the capped amount, so that the total contributions equal that partner's proportionate share. The one-stop partner's contribution must still be consistent with the program's authorizing laws and regulations, the Federal cost principles in 2 CFR part 200, and other applicable legal requirements; or
(ii) Direct or allow the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners to: Re-enter negotiations, as necessary; reduce the infrastructure costs to reflect the amount of funds that are available for such costs without exceeding the cap levels; reassess the proportionate share of each one-stop partner; or identify alternative sources of financing for one-stop infrastructure funding, consistent with the requirement that each one-stop partner pay an amount that is consistent with the proportionate use of the one-stop center and relative benefit received by the partner, the program's authorizing laws and regulations, the Federal cost principles in 2 CFR part 200, and other applicable legal requirements.
(3) If applicable under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the Local
WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners, after renegotiation, may come to agreement, sign an MOU, and proceed under the local funding mechanism. Such actions do not require the redetermination of the applicable caps under paragraph (a) of this section.
(4) If, after renegotiation, agreement among partners still cannot be reached or alternate financing cannot be identified, the Governor may adjust the specified allocation, in accordance with the amounts available and the limitations described in paragraph (d) of this section. In determining these adjustments, the Governor may take into account information relating to the renegotiation as well as the information described in § 361.735(a).
(c)
Limitations.
Subject to paragraph (a) of this section and in accordance with WIOA sec. 121(h)(2)(D), the following limitations apply to the Governor's calculations of the amount that one-stop partners in local areas that have not reached agreement under the local funding mechanism may be required under § 361.736 to contribute to one-stop infrastructure funding:
(1)
WIOA formula programs and Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service.
The portion of funds required to be contributed under the WIOA youth, adult, or dislocated worker programs, or under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
) must not exceed three percent of the amount of the program in the State for a program year.
(2)
Other one-stop partners.
For required one-stop partners other than those specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (3), (5), and (6) of this section, the portion of funds required to be contributed must not exceed 1.5 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out that program in the State for a fiscal year. For purposes of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, the cap on contributions is determined based on the funds made available by the State for postsecondary level programs and activities under sec. 132 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act and the amount of funds used by the State under sec. 112(a)(3) of the Perkins Act during the prior year to administer postsecondary level programs and activities, as applicable.
(3)
Vocational rehabilitation.
(i) Within a State, for the entity or entities administering the programs described in WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(iv) and § 361.400, the allotment is based on the one State Federal fiscal year allotment, even in instances where that allotment is shared between two State agencies, and the cumulative portion of funds required to be contributed must not exceed—
(A) 0.75 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2016 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2017;
(B) 1.0 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2017 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2018;
(C) 1.25 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2018 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2019;
(D) 1.5 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2019 and following years for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2020 and subsequent years.
(ii) The limitations set forth in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section for any given fiscal year must be based on the final VR allotment to the State in the applicable Federal fiscal year.
(4)
Federal direct spending programs.
For local areas that have not reached a one-stop infrastructure funding agreement by consensus, an entity administering a program funded with direct Federal spending, as defined in sec. 250(c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as in effect on February 15, 2014 (2 U.S.C. 900(c)(8)), must not be required to provide more for infrastructure costs than the amount that the Governor determined (as described in § 361.737).
(5)
TANF programs.
For purposes of TANF, the cap on contributions is determined based on the total Federal TANF funds expended by the State for work, education, and training activities during the prior Federal fiscal year (as reported to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on
the quarterly TANF Financial Report form), plus any additional amount of Federal TANF funds that the State TANF agency reasonably determines was expended for administrative costs in connection with these activities but that was separately reported to HHS as an administrative cost. The State's contribution to the one-stop infrastructure must not exceed 1.5 percent of these combined expenditures.
(6)
Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) programs.
For purposes of CSBG, the cap on contributions will be based on the total amount of CSBG funds determined by the State to have been expended by local CSBG-eligible entities for the provision of employment and training activities during the prior Federal fiscal year for which information is available (as reported to HHS on the CSBG Annual Report) and any additional amount that the State CSBG agency reasonably determines was expended for administrative purposes in connection with these activities and was separately reported to HHS as an administrative cost. The State's contribution must not exceed 1.5 percent of these combined expenditures.
(d) For programs for which it is not otherwise feasible to determine the amount of Federal funding used by the program until the end of that program's operational year—because, for example, the funding available for education, employment, and training activities is included within funding for the program that may also be used for other unrelated activities—the determination of the Federal funds provided to carry out the program for a fiscal year under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be determined by:
(1) The percentage of Federal funds available to the one-stop partner program that were used by the one-stop partner program for education, employment, and training activities in the previous fiscal year for which data are available; and
(2) Applying the percentage determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the total amount of Federal funds available to the one-stop partner program for the fiscal year for which the determination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies.
§ 361.740
What funds are used to pay for infrastructure costs in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) In the State funding mechanism, infrastructure costs for WIOA title I programs, including Native American Programs described in 20 CFR part 684, may be paid using program funds, administrative funds, or both. Infrastructure costs for the Senior Community Service Employment Program under title V of the Older Americans Act (42 U.S.C. 3056
et seq.
) may also be paid using program funds, administrative funds, or both.
(b) In the State funding mechanism, infrastructure costs for other required one-stop partner programs (listed in §§ 361.400 through 361.410) are limited to the program's administrative funds, as appropriate.
(c) In the State funding mechanism, infrastructure costs for the adult education program authorized by title II of WIOA must be paid from the funds that are available for local administration and may be paid from funds made available by the State or non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind, or third-party contributions.
(d) In the State funding mechanism, infrastructure costs for the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 must be paid from funds available for local administration of postsecondary level programs and activities to eligible recipients or consortia of eligible recipients and may be paid from funds made available by the State or non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind, or third-party contributions.
§ 361.745
What factors does the State Workforce Development Board use to develop the formula described in Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, which is used by the Governor to determine the appropriate one-stop infrastructure budget for each local area operating under the State infrastructure funding mechanism, if no reasonably implementable locally negotiated budget exists?
The State WDB must develop a formula, as described in WIOA sec. 121(h)(3)(B), to be used by the Governor under § 361.735(b)(3) in determining the
appropriate budget for the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers in the local areas that do not reach agreement under the local funding mechanism and are, therefore, subject to the State funding mechanism. The formula identifies the factors and corresponding weights for each factor that the Governor must use, which must include: The number of one-stop centers in a local area; the population served by such centers; the services provided by such centers; and any factors relating to the operations of such centers in the local area that the State WDB determines are appropriate. As indicated in § 361.735(b)(1), if the local area has agreed on such a budget, the Governor may accept that budget in lieu of applying the formula factors.
§ 361.750
When and how can a one-stop partner appeal a one-stop infrastructure amount designated by the State under the State infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) The Governor must establish a process, described under sec. 121(h)(2)(E) of WIOA, for a one-stop partner administering a program described in §§ 361.400 through 361.410 to appeal the Governor's determination regarding the one-stop partner's portion of funds to be provided for one-stop infrastructure costs. This appeal process must be described in the Unified State Plan.
(b) The appeal may be made on the ground that the Governor's determination is inconsistent with proportionate share requirements in § 361.735(a), the cost contribution limitations in § 361.735(b), the cost contribution caps in § 361.738, consistent with the process described in the State Plan.
(c) The process must ensure prompt resolution of the appeal in order to ensure the funds are distributed in a timely manner, consistent with the requirements of 20 CFR 683.630.
(d) The one-stop partner must submit an appeal in accordance with State's deadlines for appeals specified in the guidance issued under § 361.705(b)(3), or if the State has not set a deadline, within 21 days from the Governor's determination.
§ 361.755
What are the required elements regarding infrastructure funding that must be included in the one-stop Memorandum of Understanding?
The MOU, fully described in § 361.500, must contain the following information whether the local areas use either the local one-stop or the State funding method:
(a) The period of time in which this infrastructure funding agreement is effective. This may be a different time period than the duration of the MOU.
(b) Identification of an infrastructure and shared services budget that will be periodically reconciled against actual costs incurred and adjusted accordingly to ensure that it reflects a cost allocation methodology that demonstrates how infrastructure costs are charged to each partner in proportion to its use of the one-stop center and relative benefit received, and that complies with 2 CFR part 200 (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
(c) Identification of all one-stop partners, chief elected officials, and Local WDB participating in the infrastructure funding arrangement.
(d) Steps the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners used to reach consensus or an assurance that the local area followed the guidance for the State funding process.
(e) Description of the process to be used among partners to resolve issues during the MOU duration period when consensus cannot be reached.
(f) Description of the periodic modification and review process to ensure equitable benefit among one-stop partners.
§ 361.760
How do one-stop partners jointly fund other shared costs under the Memorandum of Understanding?
(a) In addition to jointly funding infrastructure costs, one-stop partners listed in §§ 361.400 through 361.410 must use a portion of funds made available under their programs' authorizing Federal law (or fairly evaluated in-kind contributions) to pay the additional costs relating to the operation of the one-stop delivery system. These other costs must include applicable career
services and may include other costs, including shared services.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, shared services' costs may include the costs of shared services that are authorized for and may be commonly provided through the one-stop partner programs to any individual, such as initial intake, assessment of needs, appraisal of basic skills, identification of appropriate services to meet such needs, referrals to other one-stop partners, and business services. Shared operating costs may also include shared costs of the Local WDB's functions.
(c) Contributions to the additional costs related to operation of the one-stop delivery system may be cash, non-cash, or third-party in-kind contributions, consistent with how these are described in § 361.720(c).
(d) The shared costs described in paragraph (a) of this section must be allocated according to the proportion of benefit received by each of the partners, consistent with the Federal law authorizing the partner's program, and consistent with all other applicable legal requirements, including Federal cost principles in 2 CFR part 200 (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling) requiring that costs are allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable.
(e) Any shared costs agreed upon by the one-stop partners must be included in the MOU.
§ 361.800
How are one-stop centers and one-stop delivery systems certified for effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement?
(a) The State WDB, in consultation with chief elected officials and Local WDBs, must establish objective criteria and procedures for Local WDBs to use when certifying one-stop centers.
(1) The State WDB, in consultation with chief elected officials and Local WDBs, must review and update the criteria every 2 years as part of the review and modification of State Plans pursuant to § 361.135.
(2) The criteria must be consistent with the Governor's and State WDB's guidelines, guidance, and policies on infrastructure funding decisions, described in § 361.705. The criteria must evaluate the one-stop centers and one-stop delivery system for effectiveness, including customer satisfaction, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement.
(3) When the Local WDB is the one-stop operator as described in 20 CFR 679.410, the State WDB must certify the one-stop center.
(b) Evaluations of effectiveness must include how well the one-stop center integrates available services for participants and businesses, meets the workforce development needs of participants and the employment needs of local employers, operates in a cost-efficient manner, coordinates services among the one-stop partner programs, and provides access to partner program services to the maximum extent practicable, including providing services outside of regular business hours where there is a workforce need, as identified by the Local WDB. These evaluations must take into account feedback from one-stop customers. They must also include evaluations of how well the one-stop center ensures equal opportunity for individuals with disabilities to participate in or benefit from one-stop center services. These evaluations must include criteria evaluating how well the centers and delivery systems take actions to comply with the disability-related regulations implementing WIOA sec. 188, set forth at 29 CFR part 38. Such actions include, but are not limited to:
(1) Providing reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities;
(2) Making reasonable modifications to policies, practices, and procedures where necessary to avoid discrimination against persons with disabilities;
(3) Administering programs in the most integrated setting appropriate;
(4) Communicating with persons with disabilities as effectively as with others;
(5) Providing appropriate auxiliary aids and services, including assistive technology devices and services, where necessary to afford individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, the program or activity; and
(6) Providing for the physical accessibility of the one-stop center to individuals with disabilities.
(c) Evaluations of continuous improvement must include how well the one-stop center supports the achievement of the negotiated local levels of performance for the indicators of performance for the local area described in sec. 116(b)(2) of WIOA and part 361. Other continuous improvement factors may include a regular process for identifying and responding to technical assistance needs, a regular system of continuing professional staff development, and having systems in place to capture and respond to specific customer feedback.
(d) Local WDBs must assess at least once every 3 years the effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement of one-stop centers and the one-stop delivery systems using the criteria and procedures developed by the State WDB. The Local WDB may establish additional criteria, or set higher standards for service coordination, than those set by the State criteria. Local WDBs must review and update the criteria every 2 years as part of the Local Plan update process described in § 361.580. Local WDBs must certify one-stop centers in order to be eligible to use infrastructure funds in the State funding mechanism described in § 361.730.
(e) All one-stop centers must comply with applicable physical and programmatic accessibility requirements, as set forth in 29 CFR part 38, the implementing regulations of WIOA sec. 188.
§ 361.900
What is the common identifier to be used by each one-stop delivery system?
(a) The common one-stop delivery system identifier is “American Job Center.”
(b) As of November 17, 2016, each one-stop delivery system must include the “American Job Center” identifier or “a proud partner of the American Job Center network” on all primary electronic resources used by the one-stop delivery system, and on any newly printed, purchased, or created materials.
(c) As of July 1, 2017, each one-stop delivery system must include the “American Job Center” identifier or “a proud partner of the American Job Center network” on all products, programs, activities, services, electronic resources, facilities, and related property and new materials used in the one-stop delivery system.
(d) One-stop partners, States, or local areas may use additional identifiers on their products, programs, activities, services, facilities, and related property and materials.
Pt. 363

# PART 363—THE STATE SUPPORTED EMPLOYMENT SERVICES PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
363.1
What is the State Supported Employment Services program?
363.2
Who is eligible for an award?
363.3
Who is eligible for services?
363.4
What are the authorized activities under the State Supported Employment Services program?
363.5
What regulations apply?
363.6
What definitions apply?

# Subpart B—How Does a State Apply for a Grant?
363.10
What documents must a State submit to receive a grant?
363.11
What are the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan supplement requirements?

# Subpart C—How Are State Supported Employment Services Programs Financed?
363.20
How does the Secretary allot funds?
363.21
How does the Secretary reallot funds?
363.22
How are funds reserved for youth with the most significant disabilities?
363.23
What are the matching requirements?
363.24
What is program income and how may it be used?
363.25
What is the period of availability of funds?
Subparts D-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—What Post-Award Conditions Must Be Met by a State?
363.50
What collaborative agreements must the State develop?
363.51
What are the allowable administrative costs?
363.52
What are the information collection and reporting requirements?
363.53
What requirements must a designated State unit meet for the transition of an individual to extended services?
363.54
When will an individual be considered to have achieved an employment outcome in supported employment?
363.55
When will the service record of an individual who has achieved an employment outcome in supported employment be closed?
363.56
What notice requirements apply to this program?

# Authority:
Sections 602-608 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 795g-795m, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55780, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 363.1
What is the State Supported Employment Services program?
(a) Under the State supported employment services program, the Secretary provides grants to assist States in developing and implementing collaborative programs with appropriate entities to provide programs of supported employment services for individuals with the most significant disabilities, including youth with the most significant disabilities, to enable them to achieve an employment outcome of supported employment in competitive integrated employment. Grants made under the State supported employment services program supplement a State's vocational rehabilitation program grants under 34 CFR part 361.
(b) For purposes of this part and 34 CFR part 361, “supported employment” means competitive integrated employment, including customized employment, or employment in an integrated work setting in which an individual with a most significant disability, including a youth with a most significant disability, is working on a short-term basis toward competitive integrated employment, that is individualized and customized, consistent with the unique strengths, abilities, interests, and informed choice of the individual, including with ongoing support services for individuals with the most significant disabilities—
(1)(i) For whom competitive integrated employment has not historically occurred; or
(ii) For whom competitive integrated employment has been interrupted or intermittent as a result of a significant disability; and
(2) Who, because of the nature and severity of the disability, need intensive supported employment services, and extended services after the transition from support provided by the designated State unit in order to perform the work.
(c)
Short-term basis.
For purposes of this part, an individual with a most significant disability, whose supported employment in an integrated setting does not satisfy the criteria of competitive integrated employment, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(9), is considered to be working on a short-term basis toward competitive integrated employment so long as the individual can reasonably anticipate achieving competitive integrated employment—
(1) Within six months of achieving a supported employment outcome; or,
(2) In limited circumstances, within a period not to exceed 12 months from the achievement of the supported employment outcome, if a longer period is necessary based on the needs of the individual, and the individual has demonstrated progress toward competitive earnings based on information contained in the service record.
(Authority: Sections 7(38), 7(39), 12(c), and 602 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(38) 705(39), 709(c), and 795g)
§ 363.2
Who is eligible for an award?
Any State that submits the documentation required by § 363.10, as part of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan under 34 CFR part 361, is eligible for an award under this part.
(Authority: Section 606(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 795k(a))
§ 363.3
Who is eligible for services?
A State may provide services under this part to any individual, including a youth with a disability, if—
(a) The individual has been determined to be—
(1) Eligible for vocational rehabilitation services in accordance with 34 CFR 361.42; and
(2) An individual with a most significant disability;
(b) For purposes of activities carried out under § 363.4(a)(2), the individual is a youth with a disability, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(59), who satisfies the requirements of this section; and
(c) Supported employment has been identified as the appropriate employment outcome for the individual on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of rehabilitation needs, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(5), including an evaluation of rehabilitation, career, and job needs.
(Authority: Section 605 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 795j)
§ 363.4
What are the authorized activities under the State Supported Employment Services program?
(a) The State may use funds allotted under this part to—
(1) Provide supported employment services, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(54);
(2) Provide extended services, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(19), to youth with the most significant disabilities, in accordance with § 363.11(f), for a period of time not to exceed four years, or until such time that a youth reaches the age of 25 and no longer meets the definition of a youth with a disability under 34 CFR 361.5(c)(58), whichever occurs first; and
(3) With funds reserved, in accordance with § 363.22 for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities, leverage other public and private funds to increase resources for extended services and expand supported employment opportunities.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a State may not use funds under this part to provide extended services to individuals with the most significant disabilities.
(c) Nothing in this part will be construed to prohibit a State from providing—
(1) Supported employment services in accordance with the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan submitted under 34 CFR part 361 by using funds made available through a State allotment under that part.
(2) Discrete postemployment services in accordance with 34 CFR 361.48(b) by using funds made available under 34 CFR part 361 to an individual who is eligible under this part.
(d) A State must coordinate with the entities described in § 363.50(a) regarding the services provided to individuals with the most significant disabilities, including youth with the most significant disabilities, under this part and under 34 CFR part 361 to ensure that the services are complementary and not duplicative.
(Authority: Sections 7(39), 12(c), 604, 606(b)(6), and 608 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(39), 709(c), 795i, 795k(b)(6), and 795m)
§ 363.5
What regulations apply?
The following regulations apply to the State supported employment services program:
(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:
(1) 34 CFR part 76 (State-Administered Programs).
(2) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations).
(3) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).
(4) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act—Enforcement).
(5) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).
(b) The regulations in this part 363.
(c) The following regulations in 34 CFR part 361 (The State Vocational Rehabilitation Services Program): §§ 361.5, 361.31, 361.32, 361.34, 361.35, 361.39, 361.40, 361.41, 361.42, 361.47(a), 361.48, 361.49, and 361.53.
(d) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards), as adopted in 2 CFR part 3474.
(e) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted in 2 CFR part 3485.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 363.6
What definitions apply?
The following definitions apply to this part:
(a) Definitions in 34 CFR part 361.
(b) Definitions in 34 CFR part 77.
(c) Definitions in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A.
(Authority: Sections 7 and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705 and 709(c))

# Subpart B—How Does a State Apply for a Grant?
§ 363.10
What documents must a State submit to receive a grant?
(a) To be eligible to receive a grant under this part, a State must submit to the Secretary, as part of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan under 34 CFR part 361, a State plan supplement that meets the requirements of § 363.11.
(b) A State must submit revisions to the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan supplement submitted under this part as may be necessary.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 606(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 795k(a))
§ 363.11
What are the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan supplement requirements?
Each State plan supplement, submitted in accordance with § 363.10, must—
(a) Designate a designated State unit or, as applicable, units, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(13), as the State agency or agencies to administer the Supported Employment program under this part;
(b) Summarize the results of the needs assessment of individuals with most significant disabilities, including youth with the most significant disabilities, conducted under 34 CFR 361.29(a), with respect to the rehabilitation and career needs of individuals with most significant disabilities and their need for supported employment services. The results of the needs assessment must also address needs relating to coordination;
(c) Describe the quality, scope, and extent of supported employment services to be provided to eligible individuals with the most significant disabilities under this part, including youth with the most significant disabilities;
(d) Describe the State's goals and plans with respect to the distribution of funds received under § 363.20;
(e) Demonstrate evidence of the designated State unit's efforts to identify and make arrangements, including entering into cooperative agreements, with—
(1) Other State agencies and other appropriate entities to assist in the provision of supported employment services; and
(2) Other public or non-profit agencies or organizations within the State, employers, natural supports, and other entities with respect to the provision of extended services;
(f) Describe the activities to be conducted for youth with the most significant disabilities with the funds reserved in accordance with § 363.22, including—
(1) The provision of extended services to youth with the most significant disabilities for a period not to exceed four years, in accordance with § 363.4(a)(2); and
(2) How the State will use supported employment funds reserved under § 363.22 to leverage other public and private funds to increase resources for extended services and expand supported employment opportunities for youth with the most significant disabilities;
(g) Assure that—
(1) Funds made available under this part will only be used to provide authorized supported employment services to individuals who are eligible under this part to receive such services;
(2) The comprehensive assessments of individuals with significant disabilities, including youth with the most significant disabilities, conducted under 34 CFR part 361 will include consideration of supported employment as an appropriate employment outcome;
(3) An individualized plan for employment, as described in 34 CFR 361.45 and 361.46, will be developed and updated, using funds received under 34 CFR part 361, in order to—
(i) Specify the supported employment services to be provided, including, as appropriate, transition services and pre-employment transition services to
be provided for youth with the most significant disabilities;
(ii) Specify the expected extended services needed, including the extended services that may be provided under this part to youth with the most significant disabilities in accordance with an approved individualized plan for employment for a period not to exceed four years; and
(iii) Identify, as appropriate, the source of extended services, which may include natural supports, programs, or other entities, or an indication that it is not possible to identify the source of extended services at the time the individualized plan for employment is developed;
(4) The State will use funds provided under this part only to supplement, and not supplant, the funds received under 34 CFR part 361, in providing supported employment services specified in the individualized plan for employment;
(5) Services provided under an individualized plan for employment will be coordinated with services provided under other individualized plans established under other Federal or State programs;
(6) To the extent job skills training is provided, the training will be provided onsite;
(7) Supported employment services will include placement in an integrated setting based on the unique strengths, resources, interests, concerns, abilities, and capabilities of individuals with the most significant disabilities, including youth with the most significant disabilities;
(8) The designated State agency or agencies, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, will expend no more than 2.5 percent of the State's allotment under this part for administrative costs of carrying out this program; and
(9) The designated State agency or agencies will provide, directly or indirectly through public or private entities, non-Federal contributions in an amount that is not less than 10 percent of the costs of carrying out supported employment services provided to youth with the most significant disabilities with the funds reserved for such purpose under § 363.22; and
(h) Contain any other information and be submitted in the form and in accordance with the procedures that the Secretary may require.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0522)
(Authority: Section 606 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 795k)

# Subpart C—How Are State Supported Employment Services Programs Financed?
§ 363.20
How does the Secretary allot funds?
(a)
States.
The Secretary will allot the sums appropriated for each fiscal year to carry out the activities of this part among the States on the basis of relative population of each State, except that—
(1) No State will receive less than $250,000, or
1/3
of 1 percent of the sums appropriated for the fiscal year for which the allotment is made, whichever amount is greater; and
(2) If the sums appropriated to carry out this part for the fiscal year exceed the sums appropriated to carry out this part (as in effect on September 30, 1992) in fiscal year 1992 by $1,000,000 or more, no State will receive less than $300,000, or
1/3
of 1 percent of the sums appropriated for the fiscal year for which the allotment is made, whichever amount is greater.
(b)
Certain Territories.
(1) For the purposes of this section, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands are not considered to be States.
(2) Each jurisdiction described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be allotted not less than
1/8
of 1 percent of the amounts appropriated for the fiscal year for which the allotment is made.
(Authority: Section 603(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 795h(a))
§ 363.21
How does the Secretary reallot funds?
(a) Whenever the Secretary determines that any amount of an allotment to a State under § 363.20 for any fiscal year will not be expended by such State for carrying out the provisions of
this part, the Secretary will make such amount available for carrying out the provisions of this part to one or more of the States that the Secretary determines will be able to use additional amounts during such year for carrying out such provisions.
(b) Any amount made available to a State for any fiscal year in accordance with paragraph (a) will be regarded as an increase in the State's allotment under this part for such year.
(Authority: Section 603(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 795h(b))
§ 363.22
How are funds reserved for youth with the most significant disabilities?
A State that receives an allotment under this part must reserve and expend 50 percent of such allotment for the provision of supported employment services, including extended services, to youth with the most significant disabilities in order to assist those youth in achieving an employment outcome in supported employment.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 603(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 795h(d))
§ 363.23
What are the matching requirements?
(a)
Non-Federal share.
(1) For funds allotted under § 363.20 and not reserved under § 363.22 for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities, there is no non-Federal share requirement.
(2)(i) For funds allotted under § 363.20 and reserved under § 363.22 for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities, a designated State agency must provide non-Federal expenditures in an amount that is not less than 10 percent of the total expenditures, including the Federal reserved funds and the non-Federal share, incurred for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities, including extended services.
(ii) In the event that a designated State agency uses more than 50 percent of its allotment under this part to provide supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities as required by § 363.22, there is no requirement that a designated State agency provide non-Federal expenditures to match the excess Federal funds spent for this purpose.
(3) Except as provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, non-Federal expenditures made under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan supplement to meet the non-Federal share requirement under this section must be consistent with the provision of 2 CFR 200.306.
(b)
Third-party in-kind contributions.
Third-party in-kind contributions, as described in 2 CFR 200.306(b), may not be used to meet the non-Federal share under this section.
(c)(1)
Contributions by private entities.
Expenditures made from contributions by private organizations, agencies, or individuals that are deposited into the sole account of the State agency, in accordance with State law may be used as part of the non-Federal share under this section, provided the expenditures under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan supplement, as described in § 363.11, do not benefit in any way the donor, an individual to whom the donor is related by blood or marriage or with whom the donor shares a financial interest.
(2) The Secretary does not consider a donor's receipt from the State unit of a contract or subaward with funds allotted under this part to be a benefit for the purpose of this paragraph if the contract or subaward is awarded under the State's regular competitive procedures.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 606(b)(7)(I) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 795k(b)(7)(I))
§ 363.24
What is program income and how may it be used?
(a)
Definition.
(1)
Program income
means gross income earned by the State that is directly generated by authorized activities supported under this part or earned as a result of the Federal award during the period of performance.
(2) Program income received through the transfer of Social Security Administration payments from the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services program, in accordance with 34 CFR 361.63(c)(2), will be treated as program income received under this part.
(b)
Use of program income.
(1) Program income must be used for the provision of services authorized under § 363.4. Program income earned or received during the fiscal year must be disbursed during the period of performance of the award, prior to requesting additional cash payments.
(2) States are authorized to treat program income as an addition to the grant funds to be used for additional allowable program expenditures, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2).
(3) Program income cannot be used to meet the non-Federal share requirement under § 363.23.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 108 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 728)
§ 363.25
What is the period of availability of funds?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any Federal award funds, including reallotted funds, that are appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out a program under this part that are not obligated by the State by the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year, and any program income received during a fiscal year that is not obligated or expended by the State prior to the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year in which the program income was received, remain available for obligation by the State during that succeeding fiscal year.
(b) Federal funds appropriated for a fiscal year and reserved for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities, in accordance with § 363.22 of this part, remain available for obligation in the succeeding fiscal year only to the extent that the State met the matching requirement, as described in § 363.23, for those Federal funds by obligating, in accordance with 34 CFR 76.707, the non-Federal share in the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated. Any reserved funds carried over may only be obligated and expended in that succeeding Federal fiscal year for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 19 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 716)
Subparts D-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—What Post-Award Conditions Must Be Met by a State?
§ 363.50
What collaborative agreements must the State develop?
(a) A designated State unit must enter into one or more written collaborative agreements, memoranda of understanding, or other appropriate mechanisms with other public agencies, private nonprofit organizations, and other available funding sources, including employers and other natural supports, as appropriate, to assist with the provision of supported employment services and extended services to individuals with the most significant disabilities in the State, including youth with the most significant disabilities, to enable them to achieve an employment outcome of supported employment in competitive integrated employment.
(b) These agreements provide the mechanism for collaboration at the State level that is necessary to ensure the smooth transition from supported employment services to extended services, the transition of which is inherent to the definition of “supported employment” in § 363.1(b). The agreement may contain information regarding the—
(1) Supported employment services to be provided, for a period not to exceed 24 months, by the designated State unit with funds received under this part;
(2) Extended services to be provided to youth with the most significant disabilities, for a period not to exceed four years, by the designated State unit with the funds reserved under § 363.22 of this part;
(3) Extended services to be provided by other public agencies, private nonprofit organizations, or other sources, including employers and other natural
supports, following the provision of authorized supported employment services, or extended services as appropriate for youth with the most significant disabilities, under this part; and
(4) Collaborative efforts that will be undertaken by all relevant entities to increase opportunities for competitive integrated employment in the State for individuals with the most significant disabilities, especially youth with the most significant disabilities.
(Authority: Sections 7(38), 7(39), 12(c), 602, and 606(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(38), 705(39), 709(c), 795g, and 795k(b))
§ 363.51
What are the allowable administrative costs?
(a) A State may use funds under this part to pay for expenditures incurred in the administration of activities carried out under this part, consistent with the definition of administrative costs in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(2).
(b) A designated State agency may not expend more than 2.5 percent of a State's allotment under this part for administrative costs for carrying out the State supported employment program.
(Authority: Sections 7(1), 12(c), and 603(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(1), 709(c), and 795h(c))
§ 363.52
What are the information collection and reporting requirements?
Each State agency designated in § 363.11(a) must collect and report separately the information required under 34 CFR 361.40 for—
(a) Eligible individuals receiving supported employment services under this part;
(b) Eligible individuals receiving supported employment services under 34 CFR part 361;
(c) Eligible youth receiving supported employment services and extended services under this part; and
(d) Eligible youth receiving supported employment services under 34 CFR part 361 and extended services.
(Authority: Sections 13 and 607 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 710 and 795l)
§ 363.53
What requirements must a designated State unit meet for the transition of an individual to extended services?
(a) A designated State unit must provide for the transition of an individual with a most significant disability, including a youth with a most significant disability, to extended services, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(19), no later than 24 months after the individual enters supported employment, unless a longer period is established in the individualized plan for employment.
(b) Prior to assisting the individual in transitioning from supported employment services to extended services, the designated State unit must ensure—
(1) The counselor and individual have considered extending the provision of supported employment services beyond 24 months, as appropriate, and have determined that no further supported employment services are necessary to support and maintain the individual in supported employment before the individual transitions to extended services; and
(2) The source of extended services for the individual has been identified in order to ensure there will be no interruption of services. The providers of extended services may include—
(i) A State agency, a private nonprofit organization, employer, or any other appropriate resource, after an individual has made the transition from support from the designated State unit; or,
(ii) The designated State unit, in the case of a youth with a most significant disability, in accordance with requirements set forth in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(19) and this part for a period not to exceed four years, or at such time that a youth reaches the age of 25 and no longer meets the definition of a youth with a disability under 34 CFR 361.5(c)(58), whichever occurs first. For youth who still require extended services after they can no longer receive them from the designated State unit, the designated State unit must identify another source of extended services for those youth in order to ensure there will be no interruption of services. The designated State unit may
not provide extended services to individuals with the most significant disabilities who are not youth with the most significant disabilities.
(Authority: Sections 7(13), 12(c), and 604(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(13), 709(c) and 795i)
§ 363.54
When will an individual be considered to have achieved an employment outcome in supported employment?
An individual with a most significant disability, including a youth with a most significant disability, who is employed in competitive integrated employment or who is employed in an integrated setting working on a short-term basis to achieve competitive integrated employment will be considered to have achieved an employment outcome, including customized employment, in supported employment when—
(a) The individual has completed supported employment services provided under this part and 34 CFR part 361, except for any other vocational rehabilitation services listed on the individualized plan for employment provided to individuals who are working on a short-term basis toward the achievement of competitive integrated employment in supported employment. An individual has completed supported employment services when—
(1) The individual has received up to 24 months of supported employment services; or
(2) The counselor and individual have determined that an extension of time to provide supported employment services beyond 24 months is necessary to support and maintain the individual in supported employment before the individual transitions to extended services and that extension of time has concluded; and
(b) The individual has transitioned to extended services provided by either the designated State unit for youth with the most significant disabilities, or another provider, consistent with the provisions of §§ 363.4(a)(2) and 363.22; and
(c) The individual has maintained employment and achieved stability in the work setting for at least 90 days after transitioning to extended services; and
(d) The employment is individualized and customized consistent with the strengths, abilities, interests, and informed choice of the individual.
(Authority: Sections 7(11), 7(13), 7(38), 7(39), 7(40), 12(c), 602, and 606(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(11), 705(13), 705(38), 705(39), 705(40), 709(c), 795g, and 795k(b))
§ 363.55
When will the service record of an individual who has achieved an employment outcome in supported employment be closed?
(a) The service record of an individual with a most significant disability, including a youth with a most significant disability, who has achieved an employment outcome in supported employment in competitive integrated employment will be closed concurrently with the achievement of the employment outcome in supported employment when the individual—
(1) Satisfies requirements for case closure, as set forth in 34 CFR 361.56; and
(2) Is not receiving extended services or any other vocational rehabilitation service provided by the designated State unit with funds under this part or 34 CFR part 361.
(b) The service record of an individual with a most significant disability, including a youth with a most significant disability who is working toward competitive integrated employment on a short-term basis and is receiving extended services from funds other than those allotted under this part and 34 CFR part 361 will be closed when the individual—
(1) Achieves competitive integrated employment within the short-term basis period established pursuant to § 363.1(c); and the individual—
(i) Satisfies requirements for case closure, as set forth in 34 CFR 361.56; and
(ii) Is no longer receiving vocational rehabilitation services provided by the designated State unit with funds under 34 CFR part 361; or
(2) Does not achieve competitive integrated employment within the short-term basis period established pursuant to § 363.1(c).
(c) The service record of a youth with a most significant disability who is receiving extended services provided by the designated State unit from funds under this part or 34 CFR part 361 will be closed when—
(1) The youth with a most significant disability achieves an employment outcome in supported employment in competitive integrated employment without entering the short-term basis period; and
(i) Is no longer eligible to receive extended services provided by the designated State unit with funds allotted under this part and 34 CFR part 361 because the individual—
(A) No longer meets age requirements established in the definition of a youth with a disability pursuant to 34 CFR 361.5(c)(58); or
(B) Has received extended services for a period of four years; or
(C) Has transitioned to extended services provided with funds other than those allotted under this part or part 361 prior to meeting the age or time restrictions established under paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, respectively; and
(ii) Satisfies requirements for case closure, as set forth in 34 CFR 361.56; and
(iii) The individual is no longer receiving any other vocational rehabilitation service from the designated State unit provided with funds under 34 CFR part 361; or
(2) The youth with a most significant disability who is working toward competitive integrated employment on a short-term basis—
(i) Achieves competitive integrated employment within the short-term basis period established pursuant to § 363.1(c);
(ii) Is no longer eligible to receive extended services provided by the designated State unit with funds allotted under this part and 34 CFR part 361 because the individual—
(A) No longer meets age requirements established in the definition of a youth with a disability pursuant to 34 CFR 361.5(c)(58); or
(B) Has received extended services for a period of four years; or
(C) Has transitioned to extended services provided with funds other than those allotted under this part or 34 CFR part 361 prior to meeting the age or time restrictions established under paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, respectively; and
(iii) Satisfies requirements for case closure, as set forth in 34 CFR 361.56; or
(3) The youth with a most significant disability working toward competitive integrated employment on a short-term basis does not achieve competitive integrated employment within the short-term basis period established pursuant to § 363.1(c).
(Authority: Sections 7(11), 7(13), 7(38), 7(39), 7(40), 7(42), 12(c), 602, and 606(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(11), 705(13), 705(38), 705(39), 705(40), 705(42), 709(c), 795g, and 795k(b))
§ 363.56
What notice requirements apply to this program?
Each grantee must advise applicants for or recipients of services under this part, or as appropriate, the parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of those individuals, including youth with the most significant disabilities, of the availability and purposes of the Client Assistance Program, including information on seeking assistance from that program.
(Authority: Section 20 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 717)
PARTS 364-366 [RESERVED]
Pt. 367

# PART 367—INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES FOR OLDER INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BLIND

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
367.1
What is the independent living services for older individuals who are blind program?
367.2
Who is eligible for an award?
367.3
What activities may the Secretary fund?
367.4
What regulations apply?
367.5
What definitions apply?

# Subpart B—Training and Technical Assistance
367.20
What are the requirements for funding training and technical assistance under this chapter?
367.21
How does the Secretary use these funds to provide training and technical assistance?
367.22
How does the Secretary make an award?
367.23
How does the Secretary determine funding priorities?
367.24
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?

# Subpart C—What are the application requirements under this Part?
367.30
How does a designated State agency (DSA) apply for an award?
367.31
What assurances must a DSA include in its application?

# Subpart D—How does the Secretary award discretionary grants?
367.40
Under what circumstances does the Secretary award discretionary grants to States?
367.41
How does the Secretary evaluate an application for a discretionary grant?

# Subpart E—How does the Secretary award formula grants?
367.50
Under what circumstances does the Secretary award formula grants to States?
367.51
How are allotments made?
367.52
How does the Secretary reallot funds under this program?

# Subpart F—What conditions must be met after an award?
367.60
When may a DSA make subawards or contracts?
367.61
What matching requirements apply?
367.62
What requirements apply if the State's non-Federal share is in cash?
367.63
What requirements apply if the State's non-Federal share is in kind?
367.64
What is the prohibition against a State's condition of an award of a sub-award or contract based on cash or in-kind contributions?
367.65
What is program income and how may it be used?
367.66
What requirements apply to the obligation of Federal funds and program income?
367.67
May an individual's ability to pay be considered in determining his or her participation in the costs of OIB services?
367.68
What notice must be given about the Client Assistance Program (CAP)?
367.69
What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
367.70
What access to records must be provided?
367.71
What records must be maintained?

# Authority:
Sections 751-753 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796j-796l, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55583, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 367.1
What is the Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind program?
This program supports projects that—
(a) Provide any of the independent living (IL) services to older individuals who are blind that are described in § 367.3(b);
(b) Conduct activities that will improve or expand services for these individuals; and
(c) Conduct activities to help improve public understanding of the challenges of these individuals.
(Authority: Section 752 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(a) and (d))
§ 367.2
Who is eligible for an award?
Any designated State agency (DSA) is eligible for an award under this program if the DSA—
(a) Is authorized to provide rehabilitation services to individuals who are blind; and
(b) Submits to and obtains approval from the Secretary of an application that meets the requirements of section 752(h) of the Act and §§ 367.30-367.31.
(Authority: Section 752(a)(2) and 752(h) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(a)(2) and (h))
§ 367.3
What activities may the Secretary fund?
(a) The DSA may use funds awarded under this part for the activities described in § 367.1 and paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) For purposes of § 367.1(a), IL services for older individuals who are blind include—
(1) Services to help correct blindness, such as—
(i) Outreach services;
(ii) Visual screening;
(iii) Surgical or therapeutic treatment to prevent, correct, or modify disabling eye conditions; and
(iv) Hospitalization related to these services;
(2) The provision of eyeglasses and other visual aids;
(3) The provision of services and equipment to assist an older individual who is blind to become more mobile and more self-sufficient;
(4) Mobility training, Braille instruction, and other services and equipment to help an older individual who is blind adjust to blindness;
(5) Guide services, reader services, and transportation;
(6) Any other appropriate service designed to assist an older individual who is blind in coping with daily living activities, including supportive services and rehabilitation teaching services;
(7) IL skills training, information and referral services, peer counseling, individual advocacy training, facilitating the transition from nursing homes and other institutions to home and community-based residences with the requisite supports and services, and providing assistance to older individuals who are blind who are at risk of entering institutions so that the individuals may remain in the community; and
(8) Other IL services, as defined in § 367.5.
(Authority: Section 752(d) and (e) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k (d) and (e))
§ 367.4
What regulations apply?
The following regulations apply to the Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind program:
(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:
(1) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs), with respect to grants under subpart B and D.
(2) 34 CFR part 76 (State-Administered Programs), with respect to grants under subpart E.
(3) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions That Apply to Department Regulations).
(4) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).
(5) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act—Enforcement).
(6) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).
(7) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485.
(8) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
(b) The regulations in this part 367.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 752 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 796k)
§ 367.5
What definitions apply?
(a) The definitions of terms used in this part that are included in the regulations identified in § 367.4 as applying to this program.
(b) In addition, the following definitions also apply to this part:
(1)
Act
means the Rehabilitation Act, as amended by WIOA.
(2)
Advocacy
means pleading an individual's cause or speaking or writing in support of an individual. To the extent permitted by State law or the rules of the agency before which an individual is appearing, a non-lawyer may engage in advocacy on behalf of another individual. Advocacy may—
(i) Involve representing an individual—
(A) Before private entities or organizations, government agencies (whether State, local, or Federal), or in a court of law (whether State or Federal); or
(B) In negotiations or mediation, in formal or informal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether State, local, or Federal), or in legal proceedings in a court of law; and
(ii) Be on behalf of—
(A) A single individual, in which case it is individual advocacy;
(B) A group or class of individuals, in which case it is systems (or systemic) advocacy; or
(C) Oneself, in which case it is self advocacy.
(3)
Attendant care
means a personal assistance service provided to an individual with significant disabilities in performing a variety of tasks required to meet essential personal needs in areas such as bathing, communicating, cooking, dressing, eating, homemaking, toileting, and transportation.
(4)
Contract
means a legal instrument by which RSA in subpart B or the DSA receiving a grant under this part purchases property or services needed to carry out the program under this Part. The term as used in this part does not include a legal instrument, even if RSA or the DSA considers it a contract, when the substance of the transaction meets the definition of a Federal award or subaward.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1221e-3)
(5)
Designated State Agency
means the agency described in section 101(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Rehabilitation Act as the sole State agency authorized to provide rehabilitation services to individuals who are blind and administer the OIB grant.
(6)
Independent living services for older individuals who are blind
means those services listed in § 367.3(b).
(7)
Legally authorized advocate or representative
means an individual who is authorized under State law to act or advocate on behalf of another individual. Under certain circumstances, State law permits only an attorney, legal guardian, or individual with a power of attorney to act or advocate on behalf of another individual. In other circumstances, State law may permit other individuals to act or advocate on behalf of another individual.
(8)
Minority group
means Alaska Natives, American Indians, Asians, Blacks (African Americans), Hispanics (Latinos), Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders.
(9)
Older individual who is blind
means an individual age fifty-five or older whose severe visual impairment makes competitive employment extremely difficult to obtain but for whom IL goals are feasible.
(10)
Other IL services
include:
(i) Counseling services, including psychological, psychotherapeutic, and related services;
(ii) Services related to securing housing or shelter, including services related to community group living, that are supportive of the purposes of the Act, and adaptive housing services, including appropriate accommodations to and modifications of any space used to serve, or to be occupied by, older individuals who are blind;
(iii) Rehabilitation technology;
(iv) Services and training for older individuals who are blind who also have cognitive and sensory disabilities, including life skills training and interpreter services;
(v) Personal assistance services, including attendant care and the training of personnel providing these services;
(vi) Surveys, directories, and other activities to identify appropriate housing, recreation opportunities, and accessible transportation, and other support services;
(vii) Consumer information programs on rehabilitation and IL services available under the Act, especially for minorities and other older individuals who are blind who have traditionally been unserved or underserved by programs under the Act;
(viii) Education and training necessary for living in a community and participating in community activities;
(ix) Supported living;
(x) Transportation, including referral and assistance for transportation;
(xi) Physical rehabilitation;
(xii) Therapeutic treatment;
(xiii) Provision of needed prostheses and other appliances and devices;
(xiv) Individual and group social and recreational services;
(xv) Services under other Federal, State, or local programs designed to provide resources, training, counseling, or other assistance of substantial benefit in enhancing the independence, productivity, and quality of life of older individuals who are blind;
(xvi) Appropriate preventive services to decrease the need of older individuals who are blind who are assisted under the Act for similar services in the future;
(xvii) Community awareness programs to enhance the understanding and integration into society of older individuals who are blind; and
(xviii) Any other services that may be necessary to improve the ability of an older individual who is blind to function, continue functioning, or move toward functioning independently in the family or community or to continue in employment and that are not inconsistent with any other provisions of the Act.
(11)
Peer relationships
mean relationships involving mutual support and assistance among individuals with significant disabilities who are actively pursuing IL goals.
(12)
Peer role models
means individuals with significant disabilities whose achievements can serve as a positive example for other older individuals who are blind.
(13)
Personal assistance services
means a range of IL services, provided by one or more persons, designed to assist an older individual who is blind to perform daily living activities on or off the job that the individual would typically perform if the individual was not blind. These IL services must be designed to increase the individual's control in life and ability to perform everyday activities on or off the job.
(14)
Service provider
means—
(i) The DSA that directly provides services authorized under § 367.3; or
(ii) Any other entity that receives a subaward or contract from the DSA to provide services authorized under § 367.3.
(15)
Significant disability
means a severe physical, mental, cognitive, or sensory impairment that substantially limits an individual's ability to function independently in the family or community or to obtain, maintain, or advance in employment.
(16)
State
means, except where otherwise specified in the Act, in addition to each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puer5to Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(17)
Subaward
means a grant or a cooperative agreement provided by the DSA to a subrecipient for the subrecipient to carry out part of the Federal award received by the DSA under this part. It does not include payments to a contractor or payments to an individual that is a beneficiary of a program funded under this part. A subaward may be provided through any form of legal agreement, including an agreement that the DSA considers a contract.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1221e-3)
(18)
Subrecipient
means a non-Federal entity that receives a subaward from the DSA to carry out part of the program funded under this part; but does not include an individual that is a beneficiary of such program. A subrecipient may also be a recipient of other Federal awards directly from a Federal awarding agency.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1221e-3)
(19)
Transportation
means travel and related expenses that are necessary to enable an older individual who is blind to benefit from another IL service and travel and related expenses for an attendant or aide if the services of that attendant or aide are necessary to enable an older individual who is blind to benefit from that IL service.
(20)
Unserved and underserved groups or populations,
with respect to groups or populations of older individuals who are blind in a State, include, but are not limited to, groups or populations of older individuals who are blind who—
(i) Have cognitive and sensory impairments;
(ii) Are members of racial and ethnic minority groups;
(iii) Live in rural areas; or
(iv) Have been identified by the DSA as unserved or underserved.
(Authority: Unless otherwise noted, Section 7 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705)

# Subpart B—Training and Technical Assistance
§ 367.20
What are the requirements for funding training and technical assistance under this chapter?
For any fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2015, the Secretary shall first reserve not less than 1.8 percent and not more than 2 percent of funds appropriated and made available to carry out this chapter to provide training and technical assistance to DSAs, or other providers of independent living services for older individuals who are blind, that are funded under this chapter for such fiscal year.
(Authority: Section 751A(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796j-1(a))
§ 367.21
How does the Secretary use these funds to provide training and technical assistance?
(a) The Secretary uses these funds to provide training and technical assistance, either directly or through grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements with State and public or non-profit agencies and organizations and institutions of higher education that have the capacity to provide technical assistance and training in the provision of independent living services for older individuals who are blind.
(b) An entity receiving assistance in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall provide training and technical assistance to DSAs or other service providers to assist them in improving the operation and performance of programs and services for older individuals who are blind resulting in their enhanced independence and self-sufficiency.
(Authority: Section 751A(a) and (c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796j-1(a) and (c))
§ 367.22
How does the Secretary make an award?
(a) To be eligible to receive a grant or enter into a contract or cooperative agreement under section 751A of the Act and this subpart, an applicant shall submit an application to the Secretary containing a proposal to provide training and technical assistance to DSAs or other service providers of IL services to older individuals who are blind and any additional information at the time and in the manner that the Secretary may require.
(b) The Secretary shall provide for peer review of applications by panels that include persons who are not Federal or State government employees and who have experience in the provision of services to older individuals who are blind.
(Authority: Section 751A(a) and (c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796j-1(a) and (c))
§ 367.23
How does the Secretary determine funding priorities?
The Secretary shall conduct a survey of DSAs that receive grants under section 752 regarding training and technical assistance needs in order to inform funding priorities for such training and technical assistance.
(Authority: Section 751A(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796j-1(b))
§ 367.24
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?
(a) The Secretary evaluates each application for a grant, cooperative agreement or contract under this subpart on the basis of the selection criteria chosen from the general selection criteria found in EDGAR regulations at 34 CFR 75.210.
(b) If using a contract to award funds under this subpart, the Secretary may conduct the application process and make the subsequent award in accordance with 34 CFR part 75.
(Authority: Section 751A of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796j-1(b), 20 U.S.C. 1221e-3, and 3474)

# Subpart C—What Are the Application Requirements Under This Part?
§ 367.30
How does a designated State agency (DSA) apply for an award?
To receive a grant under section 752(h) or a reallotment grant under section 752(i)(4) of the Act, a DSA must submit to and obtain approval from the Secretary of an application for assistance under this program at the time, in the form and manner, and containing the agreements, assurances, and information, that the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0660)
(Authority: Sections 752 (h) and (i)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(h) and (i))
§ 367.31
What assurances must a DSA include in its application?
An application for a grant under section 752(h) or a reallotment grant under section 752(i)(4) of the Act must contain an assurance that—
(a) Grant funds will be expended only for the purposes described in § 367.1;
(b) With respect to the costs of the program to be carried out by the State pursuant to this part, the State will
make available, directly or through donations from public or private entities, non-Federal contributions toward these costs in an amount that is not less than $1 for each $9 of Federal funds provided in the grant;
(c) At the end of each fiscal year, the DSA will prepare and submit to the Secretary a report, with respect to each project or program the DSA operates or administers under this part, whether directly or through a grant or contract, that contains information that the Secretary determines necessary for the proper and efficient administration of this program, including—
(1) The number and demographics of older individuals who are blind, including older individuals who are blind from minority backgrounds, and are receiving services;
(2) The types of services provided and the number of older individuals who are blind and are receiving each type of service;
(3) The sources and amounts of funding for the operation of each project or program;
(4) The amounts and percentages of resources committed to each type of service provided;
(5) Data on actions taken to employ, and advance in employment, qualified—
(i) Individuals with significant disabilities; and
(ii) Older individuals with significant disabilities who are blind;
(6) A comparison, if appropriate, of prior year activities with the activities of the most recent year; and
(7) Any new methods and approaches relating to IL services for older individuals who are blind that are developed by projects funded under this part;
(d) The DSA will—
(1) Provide services that contribute to the maintenance of, or the increased independence of, older individuals who are blind; and
(2) Engage in—
(i) Capacity-building activities, including collaboration with other agencies and organizations;
(ii) Activities to promote community awareness, involvement, and assistance; and
(iii) Outreach efforts; and
(e) The applicant has been designated by the State as the sole State agency authorized to provide rehabilitation services to individuals who are blind.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 1820-0660 and 1820-0608)
(Authority: Section 752(h) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(h))

# Subpart D—How does the Secretary award discretionary grants?
§ 367.40
Under what circumstances does the Secretary award discretionary grants to States?
(a) In the case of a fiscal year for which the amount appropriated under section 753 of the Act is less than $13,000,000, the Secretary awards discretionary grants under this part on a competitive basis to States in accordance with section 752(b) of the Act and EDGAR regulations at 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs).
(b) The Secretary awards noncompetitive continuation grants for a multi-year project to pay for the costs of activities for which a grant was awarded under this part—as long as the grantee satisfies the applicable requirements in this part, the terms of the grant, and 34 CFR 75.250 through 75.253 (Approval of Multi-year Projects).
(c) Subparts A, C, D, and F of this part govern the award of competitive grants under this part.
(Authority: Section 752(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(b); 20 U.S.C. 1221e-3 and 3474)
§ 367.41
How does the Secretary evaluate an application for a discretionary grant?
(a) The Secretary evaluates an application for a discretionary grant based on the selection criteria chosen from the general selection criteria found in EDGAR regulations at 34 CFR 75.210.
(b) In addition to the selection criteria, the Secretary considers the geographic distribution of projects in making an award.
(Authority: Section 752(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(b); 20 U.S.C. 1221e-3 and 3474)

# Subpart E—How Does the Secretary Award Formula Grants?
§ 367.50
Under what circumstances does the Secretary award formula grants to States?
(a) In the case of a fiscal year for which the amount appropriated under section 753 of the Act is equal to or greater than $13,000,000, grants under this part are made to States from allotments under section 752(c)(2) of the Act.
(b) Subparts A, C, E, and F of this part govern the award of formula grants under this part.
(Authority: Section 752(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(c))
§ 367.51
How are allotments made?
(a) For purposes of making grants under section 752(c) of the Act and this subpart, the Secretary makes an allotment to each State in an amount determined in accordance with section 752(i) of the Act.
(b) The Secretary makes a grant to a DSA in the amount of the allotment to the State under section 752(i) of the Act if the DSA submits to and obtains approval from the Secretary of an application for assistance under this program that meets the requirements of section 752(h) of the Act and §§ 367.30 and 367.31.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0660)
(Authority: Section 752(c)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(c)(2))
§ 367.52
How does the Secretary reallot funds under this program?
(a) From the amounts specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary may make reallotment grants to States, as determined by the Secretary, whose population of older individuals who are blind has a substantial need for the services specified in section 752(d) of the Act and § 367.3(b), relative to the populations in other States of older individuals who are blind.
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are any amounts that are not paid to States under section 752(c)(2) of the Act and § 367.51 as a result of—
(1) The failure of a DSA to prepare, submit, and receive approval of an application under section 752(h) of the Act and in accordance with §§ 367.30 and 367.31; or
(2) Information received by the Secretary from the DSA that the DSA does not intend to expend the full amount of the State's allotment under section 752(c) of the Act and this subpart.
(c) A reallotment grant to a State under paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the same conditions as grants made under section 752(a) of the Act and this part.
(d) Any funds made available to a State for any fiscal year pursuant to this section are regarded as an increase in the allotment of the State under § 367.51 for that fiscal year only.
(e) A State that does not intend to expend the full amount of its allotment must notify RSA at least 45 days prior to the end of the fiscal year that its grant, or a portion of it, is available for reallotment.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0660)
(Authority: Section 752(i)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(i)(4))

# Subpart F—What Conditions Must Be Met After an Award?
§ 367.60
When may a DSA make subawards or contracts?
A DSA may operate or administer the program or projects under this part to carry out the purposes specified in § 367.1, either directly or through—
(a) Subawards to public or private nonprofit agencies or organizations; or
(b) Contracts with individuals, entities, or organizations that are not public or private nonprofit agencies or organizations.
(Authority: Sections 752(g) and (h) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(g) and (h)(2)(A))
§ 367.61
What matching requirements apply?
Non-Federal contributions required by § 367.31(b) must meet the requirements in 2 CFR 200.306 (Cost sharing or matching).
(Authority: Section 752(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(f))
§ 367.62
What requirements apply if the State's non-Federal share is in cash?
(a) Expenditures that meet the non-Federal share requirements of 2 CFR 200.306 may be used to meet the non-Federal share matching requirement. Expenditures used as non-Federal share must also meet the following requirements:
(1) The expenditures are made with funds made available by appropriation directly to the DSA or with funds made available by allotment or transfer from any other unit of State or local government;
(2) The expenditures are made with cash contributions from a donor that are deposited in the account of the DSA in accordance with State law for expenditure by, and at the sole discretion of, the DSA for activities authorized by § 367.3; or
(3) The expenditures are made with cash contributions from a donor that are earmarked for meeting the State's share for activities listed in § 367.3;
(b) Cash contributions are permissible under paragraph (a)(3) of this section only if the cash contributions are not used for expenditures that benefit or will benefit in any way the donor, an individual to whom the donor is related by blood or marriage or with whom the donor has a close personal relationship, or an individual, entity, or organization with whom the donor shares a financial interest.
(c) The receipt of a subaward or contract under section 752(g) of the Act from the DSA is not considered a benefit to the donor of a cash contribution for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section if the subaward or contract was awarded under the State's regular competitive procedures. The State may not exempt the awarding of the subaward or contract from its regular competitive procedures.
(d) For purposes of this section, a donor may be a private agency, a profit-making or nonprofit organization, or an individual.
(Authority: Section 752(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(f))
§ 367.63
What requirements apply if the State's non-Federal share is in kind?
In-kind contributions may be—
(a) Used to meet the matching requirement under section 752(f) of the Act if the in-kind contributions meet the requirements and are allowable under 2 CFR 200.306; and
(b) Made to the program or project by the State or by a third party (
i.e.,
an individual, entity, or organization, whether local, public, private, for profit, or nonprofit), including a third party that is a subrecipient or contractor that is receiving or will receive assistance under section 752(g) of the Rehabilitation Act.
(Authority: Section 752(f) and (g) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(f) and (g))
§ 367.64
What is the prohibition against a State's condition of an award of a sub-award or contract based on cash or in-kind contributions?
(a) A State may not condition the making of a subaward or contract under section 752(g) of the Act on the requirement that the applicant for the subaward or contract make a cash or in-kind contribution of any particular amount or value to the State.
(b) An individual, entity, or organization that is a subrecipient or contractor of the State, may not condition the award of a subcontract on the requirement that the applicant for the subcontract make a cash or in-kind contribution of any particular amount
or value to the State or to the subrecipient or contractor of the State.
(Authority: Section 752(f) and (g) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 796k(f) and (g))
§ 367.65
What is program income and how may it be used?
(a)
Definition
—
Program income
means gross income earned by the grantee, subrecipient, or contractor that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the grant, subaward, or contract.
(1) Program income received through the transfer of Social Security Administration program income from the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services program (Title I) in accordance with 34 CFR 361.63(c)(2) will be treated as program income received under this part.
(2) Payments received by the State agency, subrecipients, or contractors from insurers, consumers, or other for IL services provided under the Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind program to defray part or all of the costs of services provided to individual consumers will be treated as program income received under this part.
(b)
Use of program income.
(1) Program income, whenever earned, must be used for the provision of services authorized under § 367.3.
(2) Program income must be added to the Federal Award in accordance with 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2).
(3) Program income may not be used to meet the non-Federal share requirement under § 367.31(b).
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 367.66
What requirements apply to the obligation of Federal funds and program income?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any Federal funds, including reallotted funds, that are appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out a program under this part that are not obligated or expended by the DSA prior to the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year, and any program income received during a fiscal year that is not obligated or expended by the DSA prior to the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year in which the program income was received, remain available for obligation and expenditure by the DSA during that succeeding fiscal year.
(b) Federal funds appropriated for a fiscal year under this part remain available for obligation in the succeeding fiscal year only to the extent that the DSA complied with its matching requirement by obligating, in accordance with 34 CFR 76.707, the non-Federal share in the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated.
(c) Program income is considered earned in the fiscal year in which it is received. Program income earned during the fiscal year must be disbursed during the time in which new obligations may be incurred to carry out the work authorized under the award, and prior to requesting additional cash payments.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 367.67
May an individual's ability to pay be considered in determining his or her participation in the costs of OIB services?
(a)
Participation of individuals in cost of services.
(1) A State is neither required to charge nor prohibited from charging consumers for the cost of IL services provided under the Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind program;
(2) If a State charges consumers or allows other service providers to charge for the cost of IL services provided under the Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind program, a State is neither required to nor prohibited from considering the ability of individual consumers to pay for the cost of these services in determining how much a particular consumer must contribute to the costs of a particular service.
(b)
State policies on cost of services.
If a State chooses to charge or allow other service providers to charge consumers for the cost of IL services provided under the Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind program and if a State chooses to consider and allow other service providers to consider the ability of individual consumers to pay for the cost of
IL services provided under the Independent Living Services for Older Individual Who Are Blind program, the State must maintain policies that—
(1) Specify the type of IL services for which costs may be charged and the type of IL services for which a financial need test may be applied;
(2) Explain the method for determining the amount charged for the IL services and how any financial need test will be applied;
(3) Ensure costs are charged uniformly so that all individuals are treated equally;
(4) Ensure that if costs are charged or financial need is considered, the consumer's required participation is not so high that it effectively denies the individual a necessary service;
(5) Require documentation of an individual's participation in the cost of any IL services provided, including the determination of an individual's financial need; and
(6) Provide that individuals who have been determined eligible for Social Security benefits under Titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act may not be charged any cost to receive IL services under this program.
(c)
Policies on consumer financial participation.
If a State permits other service providers to charge the costs of IL services provided under the Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind program, or chooses to allow other service providers to consider the ability of individual consumers to contribute to the cost of IL services provided through the Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind program, the State must require that such service providers comply with the State's written policies regarding consumer financial participation in the cost of IL services.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c)).
§ 367.68
What notice must be given about the Client Assistance Program (CAP)?
The DSA and all other service providers under this part shall use formats that are accessible to notify individuals seeking or receiving services under this part about—
(a) The availability of CAP authorized by section 112 of the Act;
(b) The purposes of the services provided under the CAP; and
(c) How to contact the CAP.
(Authority: Section 20 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 717)
§ 367.69
What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
(a)
General provisions.
The DSA and all other service providers under this part shall adopt and implement policies and procedures to safeguard the confidentiality of all personal information, including photographs and lists of names. These policies and procedures must assure that—
(1) Specific safeguards protect current and stored personal information, including a requirement that data only be released when governed by a written agreement between the DSA and other service providers and the receiving entity under paragraphs (d) and (e)(1) of this section, which addresses the requirements in this section;
(2) All applicants for, or recipients of, services under this part and, as appropriate, those individuals' legally authorized representatives, service providers, cooperating agencies, and interested persons are informed of the confidentiality of personal information and the conditions for gaining access to and releasing this information;
(3) All applicants or their legally authorized representatives are informed about the service provider's need to collect personal information and the policies governing its use, including—
(i) Identification of the authority under which information is collected;
(ii) Explanation of the principal purposes for which the service provider intends to use or release the information;
(iii) Explanation of whether providing requested information to the service provider is mandatory or voluntary and the effects to the individual of not providing requested information;
(iv) Identification of those situations in which the service provider requires or does not require informed written consent of the individual or his or her
legally authorized representative before information may be released; and
(v) Identification of other agencies to which information is routinely released;
(4) Persons who do not speak, listen, read, or write English proficiently or who rely on alternative modes of communication must be provided an explanation of service provider policies and procedures affecting personal information through methods that can be meaningfully understood by them;
(5) At least the same protections are provided to individuals served under this part as provided by State laws and regulations; and
(6) Access to records is governed by rules established by the service provider and any fees charged for copies of records are reasonable and cover only extraordinary costs of duplication or making extensive searches.
(b)
Service provider use.
All personal information in the possession of the service provider may be used only for the purposes directly connected with the provision of services under this part and the administration of the program under which services are provided under this part. Information containing identifiable personal information may not be shared with advisory or other bodies that do not have official responsibility for the provision of services under this part or the administration of the program under which services are provided under this part. In the provision of services under this part or the administration of the program under which services are provided under this part, the service provider may obtain personal information from other service providers and cooperating agencies under assurances that the information may not be further divulged, except as provided under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
(c)
Release to recipients of services under this part.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, if requested in writing by a recipient of services under this part, the service provider shall release all information in that individual's record of services to the individual or the individual's legally authorized representative in a timely manner.
(2) Medical, psychological, or other information that the service provider determines may be harmful to the individual may not be released directly to the individual, but must be provided through a qualified medical or psychological professional or the individual's legally authorized representative.
(3) If personal information has been obtained from another agency or organization, it may be released only by, or under the conditions established by, the other agency or organization.
(d)
Release for audit, evaluation, and research.
Personal information may be released to an organization, agency, or individual engaged in audit, evaluation, or research activities only for purposes directly connected with the administration of a program under this part, or for purposes that would significantly improve the quality of life for individuals served under this part and only if, in accordance with a written agreement, the organization, agency, or individual assures that—
(1) The information will be used only for the purposes for which it is being provided;
(2) The information will be released only to persons officially connected with the audit, evaluation, or research;
(3) The information will not be released to the involved individual;
(4) The information will be managed in a manner to safeguard confidentiality; and
(5) The final product will not reveal any personally identifying information without the informed written consent of the involved individual or the individual's legally authorized representative.
(e)
Release to other programs or authorities.
(1) Upon receiving the informed written consent of the individual or, if appropriate, the individual's legally authorized representative, the service provider may release personal information to another agency or organization, in accordance with a written agreement, for the latter's program purposes only to the extent that the information may be released to the involved individual and only to the extent that the other agency or organization demonstrates that the information requested is necessary for the proper administration of its program.
(2) Medical or psychological information may be released pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section if the other agency or organization assures the service provider that the information will be used only for the purpose for which it is being provided and will not be further released to the individual.
(3) The service provider shall release personal information if required by Federal laws or regulations.
(4) The service provider shall release personal information in response to investigations in connection with law enforcement, fraud, or abuse, unless expressly prohibited by Federal or State laws or regulations, and in response to judicial order.
(5) The service provider also may release personal information to protect the individual or others if the individual poses a threat to his or her safety or to the safety of others.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 367.70
What access to records must be provided?
For the purpose of conducting audits, examinations, and compliance reviews, the DSA and all other service providers shall provide access to the Secretary and the Comptroller General, or any of their duly authorized representatives, to—
(a) The records maintained under this part;
(b) Any other books, documents, papers, and records of the recipients that are pertinent to the financial assistance received under this part; and
(c) All individual case records or files or consumer service records of individuals served under this part, including names, addresses, photographs, and records of evaluation included in those individual case records or files or consumer service records.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 367.71
What records must be maintained?
The DSA and all other service providers shall maintain—
(a) Records that fully disclose and document—
(1) The amount and disposition by the recipient of that financial assistance;
(2) The total cost of the project or undertaking in connection with which the financial assistance is given or used;
(3) The amount of that portion of the cost of the project or undertaking supplied by other sources; and
(4) Compliance with the requirements of this part; and
(b) Other records that the Secretary determines to be appropriate to facilitate an effective audit.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
PART 369 [RESERVED]
Pt. 370

# PART 370—CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
370.1
What is the Client Assistance Program (CAP)?
370.2
Who is eligible for an award?
370.3
Who is eligible for services and information under the CAP?
370.4
What kinds of activities may the Secretary fund?
370.5
What regulations apply?
370.6
What definitions apply?
370.7
What shall the designated agency do to make its services accessible?

# Subpart B—What Requirements Apply to Redesignation?
370.10
When do the requirements for redesignation apply?
370.11
What requirements apply to a notice of proposed redesignation?
370.12
How does a designated agency preserve its right to appeal a redesignation?
370.13
What are the requirements for a decision to redesignate?
370.14
How does a designated agency appeal a written decision to redesignate?
370.15
What must the Governor of a State do upon receipt of a copy of a designated agency's written appeal to the Secretary?
370.16
How does the Secretary review an appeal of a redesignation?
370.17
When does a redesignation become effective?

# Subpart C—What Are the Requirements for Requesting a Grant?
370.20
What must be included in a request for a grant?

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Allocate and Reallocate Funds to a State?
370.30
How does the Secretary allocate funds?
370.31
How does the Secretary reallocate funds?

# Subpart E—What Post-Award Conditions Must Be Met by a Designated Agency?
370.40
What are allowable costs?
370.41
What conflict of interest provision applies to employees of a designated agency?
370.42
What access must the CAP be afforded to policymaking and administrative personnel?
370.43
What requirement applies to the use of mediation procedures?
370.44
What reporting requirement applies to each designated agency?
370.45
What limitation applies to the pursuit of legal remedies?
370.46
What consultation requirement applies to a Governor of a State?
370.47
What is program income and how may it be used?
370.48
When must grant funds and program income be obligated?
370.49
What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?

# Authority:
Section 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 732, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55590, Aug. 19. 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 370.1
What is the Client Assistance Program (CAP)?
The purpose of this program is to establish and carry out CAPs that—
(a) Advise and inform clients and client-applicants of all services and benefits available to them through programs authorized under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (Act), including activities carried out under sections 113 and 511;
(b) Assist and advocate for clients and client-applicants in their relationships with projects, programs, and community rehabilitation programs providing services under the Act; and
(c) Inform individuals with disabilities in the State, especially individuals with disabilities who have traditionally been unserved or underserved by vocational rehabilitation programs, of the services and benefits available to them under the Act and under title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) (42 U.S.C. 12111
et seq.
).
(Authority: Section 112(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 732(a))
§ 370.2
Who is eligible for an award?
(a)(1) Any State, through its Governor, and the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium are eligible for an award under this part if the State or eligible protection and advocacy system submits, and receives approval of, an application in accordance with § 370.20.
(2) For purposes of this part, the terms—
(i) “American Indian Consortium” has the meaning given the term in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 (DD Act) (42 U.S.C. 15002); and
(ii) “Protection and advocacy system” means a protection and advocacy system established under subtitle C of title I of the DD Act (42 U.S.C. 15041
et seq.
).
(b) Notwithstanding the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, the Governor of each State shall designate a public or private agency to conduct the State's CAP under this part.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Governor shall designate an agency that is independent of any agency that provides treatment, services, or rehabilitation to individuals under the Act.
(d) The Governor may, in the initial designation, designate an agency that provides treatment, services, or rehabilitation to individuals with disabilities under the Act if, at any time before February 22, 1984, there was an agency in the State that both—
(1) Was a grantee under section 112 of the Act by serving as a client assistance agency and directly carrying out a CAP; and
(2) Was, at the same time, a grantee under any other provision of the Act.
(e) An agency designated by the Governor of a State to conduct the State's CAP or the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium under this part may not make a subaward to or enter into a contract with an agency that provides services under this Act either to carry out the CAP or to provide services under the CAP.
(f) A designated agency, including the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, that contracts to provide CAP services with another entity or individual remains responsible for—
(1) The conduct of a CAP that meets all of the requirements of this part;
(2) Ensuring that the entity or individual expends CAP funds in accordance with—
(i) The regulations in this part; and
(ii) The regulations at 2 CFR part 200 applicable to the designated agency identified in paragraph (b) or the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, as described in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(3) The direct day-to-day supervision of the CAP services being carried out by the contractor. This day-to-day supervision must include the direct supervision of the individuals who are employed or used by the contractor to provide CAP services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(a), (c)(1)(A), and (e)(1)(E) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(a), (c)(1)(A), and (e)(1)(E))
§ 370.3
Who is eligible for services and information under the CAP?
(a) Any client or client-applicant is eligible for the services described in § 370.4.
(b) Any individual with a disability is eligible to receive information on the services and benefits available to individuals with disabilities under the Act and title I of the ADA.
(Authority: Section 112(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 732(a))
§ 370.4
What kinds of activities may the Secretary fund?
(a) Funds made available under this part must be used for activities consistent with the purposes of this program, including—
(1) Advising and informing clients, client-applicants, and individuals with disabilities in the State, especially individuals with disabilities who have traditionally been unserved or underserved by vocational rehabilitation programs, of—
(i) All services and benefits available to them through programs authorized under the Act; and
(ii) Their rights in connection with those services and benefits;
(2) Informing individuals with disabilities in the State, especially individuals with disabilities who have traditionally been unserved or underserved by vocational rehabilitation programs, of the services and benefits available to them under title I of the ADA;
(3) Upon the request of the client or client-applicant, assisting and advocating on behalf of the client or client-applicant in his or her relationship with projects, programs, and community rehabilitation programs that provide services under the Act by engaging in individual or systemic advocacy and pursuing, or assisting and advocating on behalf of the client or client-applicant to pursue, legal, administrative, and other available remedies, if necessary—
(i) To ensure the protection of the rights of a client or client-applicant under the Act; and
(ii) To facilitate access by individuals with disabilities, including students and youth with disabilities who are making the transition from school programs, to services funded under the Act; and
(4) Providing information to the public concerning the CAP.
(b) In providing assistance and advocacy services under this part with respect to services under title I of the Act, a designated agency may provide assistance and advocacy services to a client or client-applicant to facilitate the individual's employment, including assistance and advocacy services with respect to the individual's claims under title I of the ADA, if those claims under title I of the ADA are directly related to services under title I of the
Act that the individual is receiving or seeking.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(a))
§ 370.5
What regulations apply?
The following regulations apply to the expenditure of funds and the administration of the program under this part:
(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:
(1) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs) for purposes of an award made under § 370.30(d)(1) when the CAP appropriation equals or exceeds $14,000,000.
(2) 34 CFR part 76 (State-Administered Programs) applies to the State and, if the designated agency is a State or local government agency, to the designated agency, except for—
(i) Section 76.103;
(ii) Sections 76.125 through 76.137;
(iii) Sections 76.300 through 76.401;
(iv) Section 76.708;
(v) Section 76.734; and
(vi) Section 76.740.
(3) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions That Apply to Department Regulations).
(4) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).
(5) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act—Enforcement) applies to both the State and the designated agency, whether or not the designated agency is the actual recipient of the CAP grant. As the entity that eventually, if not directly, receives the CAP grant funds, the designated agency is considered a recipient for purposes of Part 81.
(6) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).
(b) Other regulations as follows:
(1) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485.
(2) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
(c) The regulations in this part 370.

# Note to § 370.5:
Any funds made available to a State under this program that are transferred by a State to a designated agency do not make a subaward as that term is defined in 2 CFR 200.330. The designated agency is not, therefore, in these circumstances a subrecipient, as that term is defined in 2 CFR 200.330.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732)
§ 370.6
What definitions apply?
(a) Definitions in EDGAR at 34 CFR part 77.
(b) Definitions in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A.
(c) Other definitions. The following definitions also apply to this part:
Act
means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.
Advocacy
means pleading an individual's cause or speaking or writing in support of an individual. Advocacy may be formal, as in the case of a lawyer representing an individual in a court of law or in formal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal). Advocacy also may be informal, as in the case of a lawyer or non-lawyer representing an individual in negotiations, mediation, or informal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal), or as in the case of a lawyer or non-lawyer representing an individual's cause before private entities or organizations, or government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal). Advocacy may be on behalf of—
(1) A single individual, in which case it is individual advocacy;
(2) More than one individual or a group of individuals, in which case it is systems (or systemic) advocacy, but systems or systemic advocacy, for the purposes of this part, does not include class actions, or
(3) Oneself, in which case it is self advocacy.
American Indian Consortium
means that entity described in § 370.2(a).
Class action
means a formal legal suit on behalf of a group or class of individuals filed in a Federal or State court that meets the requirements for a “class action” under Federal or State law. “Systems (or systemic) advocacy” that does not include filing a formal class action in a Federal or State court
is not considered a class action for purposes of this part.
Client or client-applicant
means an individual receiving or seeking services under the Act, respectively.
Designated agency
means the agency designated by the Governor under § 370.2 or the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium that is conducting a CAP under this part.
Mediation
means the act or process of using an independent third party to act as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator to settle differences or disputes between persons or parties. The third party who acts as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator may not be any entity or individual who is connected in any way with the eligible system or the agency, entity, or individual with whom the individual with a disability has a dispute. Mediation may involve the use of professional mediators or any other independent third party mutually agreed to by the parties to the dispute.
Protection and Advocacy System
has the meaning set forth at § 370.2(a).
Services under the Act
means vocational rehabilitation, independent living, supported employment, and other similar rehabilitation services provided under the Act. For purposes of the CAP, the term “services under the Act” does not include activities carried out under the protection and advocacy program authorized by section 509 of the Act (
i.e.,
the Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights (PAIR) program, 34 CFR part 381).
State
means, in addition to each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, The United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, except for purposes of the allotments under § 370.30, in which case “State” does not mean or include Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(Authority: Sections 7(34), 12(c), and 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(34), 709(c), and 732)
§ 370.7
What shall the designated agency do to make its services accessible?
The designated agency shall provide, as appropriate, the CAP services described in § 370.4 in formats that are accessible to clients or client-applicants who seek or receive CAP services.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))

# Subpart B—What Requirements Apply to Redesignation?
§ 370.10
When do the requirements for redesignation apply?
(a) The Governor shall redesignate the designated agency for carrying out the CAP to an agency that is independent of any agency that provides treatment, services, or rehabilitation to individuals under the Act if, after August 7, 1998—
(1) The designated State agency undergoes any change in the organizational structure of the agency that results in one or more new State agencies or departments, or results in the merger with one or more other State agencies or departments, and
(2) The designated State agency contains an office or unit conducting the CAP.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the designated State agency has the meaning given to that term at 34 CFR 361.5(c)(12) and described at 34 CFR 361.13.
(b) The Governor may not redesignate the agency designated pursuant to section 112(c) of the Act and § 370.2(b) without good cause and without complying with the requirements of §§ 370.10 through 370.17.
(c) For purposes of §§ 370.10 through 370.17, a “redesignation of” or “to redesignate” a designated agency means any change in or transfer of the designation of an agency previously designated by the Governor to conduct the State's CAP to a new or different agency, unit, or organization, including—
(1) A decision by a designated agency to cancel its existing contract with another entity with which it has previously contracted to carry out and operate all or part of its responsibilities
under the CAP (including providing advisory, assistance, or advocacy services to eligible clients and client-applicants); or
(2) A decision by a designated agency not to renew its existing contract with another entity with which it has previously contracted. Therefore, an agency that is carrying out a State's CAP under a contract with a designated agency is considered a designated agency for purposes of §§ 370.10 through 370.17.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a designated agency that does not renew a contract for CAP services because it is following State procurement laws that require contracts to be awarded through a competitive bidding process is presumed to have good cause for not renewing an existing contract. However, this presumption may be rebutted.
(e) If State procurement laws require a designated agency to award a contract through a competitive bidding process, the designated agency must hold public hearings on the request for proposal before awarding the new contract.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(1)(B))
§ 370.11
What requirements apply to a notice of proposed redesignation?
(a) Prior to any redesignation of the agency that conducts the CAP, the Governor shall give written notice of the proposed redesignation to the designated agency, the State Rehabilitation Council (SRC), and the State Independent Living Council (SILC) and publish a public notice of the Governor's intention to redesignate. Both the notice to the designated agency, the SRC, and the SILC and the public notice must include, at a minimum, the following:
(1) The Federal requirements for the CAP (section 112 of the Act).
(2) The goals and function of the CAP.
(3) The name of the current designated agency.
(4) A description of the current CAP and how it is administered.
(5) The reason or reasons for proposing the redesignation, including why the Governor believes good cause exists for the proposed redesignation.
(6) The effective date of the proposed redesignation.
(7) The name of the agency the Governor proposes to administer the CAP.
(8) A description of the system that the redesignated (
i.e.,
new) agency would administer.
(b) The notice to the designated agency must—
(1) Be given at least 30 days in advance of the Governor's written decision to redesignate; and
(2) Advise the designated agency that it has at least 30 days from receipt of the notice of proposed redesignation to respond to the Governor and that the response must be in writing.
(c) The notice of proposed redesignation must be published in a place and manner that provides the SRC, the SILC, individuals with disabilities or their representatives, and the public with at least 30 days to submit oral or written comments to the Governor.
(d) Following public notice, public hearings concerning the proposed redesignation must be conducted in an accessible format that provides individuals with disabilities or their representatives an opportunity for comment. The Governor shall maintain a written public record of these hearings.
(e) The Governor shall fully consider any public comments before issuing a written decision to redesignate.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(1)(B))
§ 370.12
How does a designated agency preserve its right to appeal a redesignation?
(a) To preserve its right to appeal a Governor's written decision to redesignate (see § 370.13), a designated agency must respond in writing to the Governor within 30 days after it receives the Governor's notice of proposed redesignation.
(b) The designated agency shall send its response to the Governor by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, or other means that provides a record that the Governor received the designated agency's response.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0520)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(1)(B))
§ 370.13
What are the requirements for a decision to redesignate?
(a) If, after complying with the requirements of § 370.11, the Governor decides to redesignate the designated agency, the Governor shall provide to the designated agency a written decision to redesignate that includes the rationale for the redesignation. The Governor shall send the written decision to redesignate to the designated agency by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that provides a record that the designated agency received the Governor's written decision to redesignate.
(b) If the designated agency submitted to the Governor a timely response to the Governor's notice of proposed redesignation, the Governor shall inform the designated agency that it has at least 15 days from receipt of the Governor's written decision to redesignate to file a formal written appeal with the Secretary.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0520)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(1)(B))
§ 370.14
How does a designated agency appeal a written decision to redesignate?
(a) A designated agency may appeal to the Secretary a Governor's written decision to redesignate only if the designated agency submitted to the Governor a timely written response to the Governor's notice of proposed redesignation in accordance with § 370.12.
(b) To appeal to the Secretary a Governor's written decision to redesignate, a designated agency shall file a formal written appeal with the Secretary within 15 days after the designated agency's receipt of the Governor's written decision to redesignate. The date of filing of the designated agency's written appeal with the Secretary will be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of 34 CFR 81.12.
(c) If the designated agency files a written appeal with the Secretary, the designated agency shall send a separate copy of this appeal to the Governor by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that provides a record that the Governor received a copy of the designated agency's appeal to the Secretary.
(d) The designated agency's written appeal to the Secretary must state why the Governor has not met the burden of showing that good cause for the redesignation exists or has not met the procedural requirements under §§ 370.11 and 370.13.
(e) The designated agency's written appeal must be accompanied by the designated agency's written response to the Governor's notice of proposed redesignation and may be accompanied by any other written submissions or documentation the designated agency wishes the Secretary to consider.
(f) As part of its submissions under this section, the designated agency may request an informal meeting with the Secretary at which representatives of both parties will have an opportunity to present their views on the issues raised in the appeal.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0520)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(1)(B))
§ 370.15
What must the Governor of a State do upon receipt of a copy of a designated agency's written appeal to the Secretary?
(a) If the designated agency files a formal written appeal in accordance with § 370.14, the Governor shall, within 15 days of receipt of the designated agency's appeal, submit to the Secretary copies of the following:
(1) The written notice of proposed redesignation sent to the designated agency.
(2) The public notice of proposed redesignation.
(3) Transcripts of all public hearings held on the proposed redesignation.
(4) Written comments received by the Governor in response to the public notice of proposed redesignation.
(5) The Governor's written decision to redesignate, including the rationale for the decision.
(6) Any other written documentation or submissions the Governor wishes the Secretary to consider.
(7) Any other information requested by the Secretary.
(b) As part of the submissions under this section, the Governor may request an informal meeting with the Secretary at which representatives of both parties will have an opportunity to present their views on the issues raised in the appeal.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0520)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(1)(B))
§ 370.16
How does the Secretary review an appeal of a redesignation?
(a) If either party requests a meeting under § 370.14(f) or § 370.15(b), the meeting is to be held within 30 days of the submissions by the Governor under § 370.15, unless both parties agree to waive this requirement. The Secretary promptly notifies the parties of the date and place of the meeting.
(b) Within 30 days of the informal meeting permitted under paragraph (a) of this section or, if neither party has requested an informal meeting, within 60 days of the submissions required from the Governor under § 370.15, the Secretary issues to the parties a final written decision on whether the redesignation was for good cause.
(c) The Secretary reviews a Governor's decision based on the record submitted under §§ 370.14 and 370.15 and any other relevant submissions of other interested parties. The Secretary may affirm or, if the Secretary finds that the redesignation is not for good cause, remand for further findings or reverse a Governor's redesignation.
(d) The Secretary sends copies of the decision to the parties by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that provide a record of receipt by both parties.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0520)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(1)(B))
§ 370.17
When does a redesignation become effective?
A redesignation does not take effect for at least 15 days following the designated agency's receipt of the Governor's written decision to redesignate or, if the designated agency appeals, for at least 5 days after the Secretary has affirmed the Governor's written decision to redesignate.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(1)(B))

# Subpart C—What are the Requirements for Requesting a Grant?
§ 370.20
What must be included in a request for a grant?
(a) Each State and the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium seeking assistance under this part shall submit to the Secretary, in writing, at the time and in the manner determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, an application that includes, at a minimum—
(1) The name of the designated agency; and
(2) An assurance that the designated agency meets the independence requirement of section 112(c)(1)(A) of the Act and § 370.2(c), or that the State is exempted from that requirement under section 112(c)(1)(A) of the Act and § 370.2(d).
(b)(1) Each State and the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium also shall submit to the Secretary an assurance that the designated agency has the authority to pursue legal, administrative, and other appropriate remedies to ensure the protection of the rights of clients or client-applicants within the State or American Indian Consortium.
(2) The authority to pursue remedies described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include the authority to
pursue those remedies against the State vocational rehabilitation agency and other appropriate State agencies. The designated agency meets this requirement if it has the authority to pursue those remedies either on its own behalf or by obtaining necessary services, such as legal representation, from outside sources.
(c) Each State and the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium also shall submit to the Secretary assurances that—
(1) All entities conducting, administering, operating, or carrying out programs within the State that provide services under the Act to individuals with disabilities in the State will advise all clients and client-applicants of the existence of the CAP, the services provided under the program, and how to contact the designated agency;
(2) The designated agency will meet each of the requirements in this part; and
(3) The designated agency will provide the Secretary with the annual report required by section 112(g)(4) of the Act and § 370.44.
(d) To allow a designated agency to receive direct payment of funds under this part, a State or the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium must provide to the Secretary, as part of its application for assistance, an assurance that direct payment to the designated agency is not prohibited by or inconsistent with State or tribal law, regulation, or policy.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0520)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(b) and (f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(b) and (f))

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Allocate and Reallocate Funds to a State?
§ 370.30
How does the Secretary allocate funds?
(a) After reserving funds required under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the Secretary shall allot the remainder of the sums appropriated for each fiscal year under this section among the States on the basis of relative population of each State, except that no such entity shall receive less than $50,000.
(b) The Secretary allocates $30,000 each, unless the provisions of section 112(e)(1)(D) of the Act are applicable, to American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands.
(c) The Secretary shall reserve funds, from the amount appropriated to carry out this part, to make a grant to the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium to provide services in accordance with this part. The amount of the grant to the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium shall be the same amount as is provided to a territory under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)(1) For any fiscal year for which the amount appropriated equals or exceeds $14,000,000, the Secretary may reserve not less than 1.8 percent and not more than 2.2 percent of such amount to provide a grant for training and technical assistance for the programs established under this part.
(2) All training and technical assistance shall be coordinated with activities provided under 34 CFR 381.22.
(3) The Secretary shall make a grant pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section to an entity that has experience in or knowledge related to the provision of services authorized under this part.
(4) An entity receiving a grant under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall provide training and technical assistance to the designated agencies or entities carrying out the CAP to assist them in improving the provision of services authorized under this part and the administration of the program.
(e)(1) Unless prohibited or otherwise provided by State or tribal law, regulation, or policy, the Secretary pays to the designated agency, from the State allotment under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the amount specified in the State's or the eligible protection and advocacy system's approved request. Because the designated agency, including the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, is the eventual, if not the direct, recipient of the CAP funds, 34 CFR part 81 and 2 CFR part 200 apply
to the designated agency, whether or not the designated agency is the actual recipient of the CAP grant.
(2) Notwithstanding the grant made to the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium under paragraph (c) of this section, the State remains the grantee for purposes of 34 CFR part 76 and 2 CFR part 200 because it is the State that submits an application for and receives the CAP grant. In addition, both the State and the designated agency are considered recipients for purposes of 34 CFR part 81.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(b) and (e) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(b) and (e))
§ 370.31
How does the Secretary reallocate funds?
(a) The Secretary reallocates funds in accordance with section 112(e)(2) of the Act.
(b) A designated agency shall inform the Secretary at least 45 days before the end of the fiscal year for which CAP funds were received whether the designated agency is making available for reallotment any of those CAP funds that it will be unable to obligate in that fiscal year or the succeeding fiscal year.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0520)
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 19, and 112(e)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 716, and 732(e)(2))

# Subpart E—What Post-Award Conditions Must Be Met by a Designated Agency?
§ 370.40
What are allowable costs?
(a) The designated agency, including the eligible protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, shall apply the regulations at 2 CFR part 200.
(b) Consistent with the program activities listed in § 370.4, the cost of travel in connection with the provision to a client or client-applicant of assistance under this program is allowable, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200. The cost of travel includes the cost of travel for an attendant if the attendant must accompany the client or client-applicant.
(c)(1) The State and the designated agency are accountable, both jointly and severally, to the Secretary for the proper use of funds made available under this part. However, the Secretary may choose to recover funds under the procedures in 34 CFR part 81 from either the State or the designated agency, or both, depending on the circumstances of each case.
(2) For purposes of the grant made under this part to the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, such entity will be solely accountable to the Secretary for the proper use of funds made available under this part. If the Secretary determines it necessary, the Secretary may recover funds from the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium pursuant to the procedures in 34 CFR part 81.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(c)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(c)(3))
§ 370.41
What conflict of interest provision applies to employees of a designated agency?
(a) Except as permitted by paragraph (b) of this section, an employee of a designated agency, or of an entity or individual under contract with a designated agency, who carries out any CAP duties or responsibilities, while so employed, may not—
(1) Serve concurrently as a staff member of, consultant to, or in any other capacity within, any other rehabilitation project, program, or community rehabilitation program receiving assistance under the Act in the State; or
(2) Provide any services under the Act, other than CAP and PAIR services.
(b) An employee of a designated agency under contract with a designated agency, may—
(1) Receive a traineeship under section 302 of the Act;
(2) Provide services under the PAIR program;
(3) Represent the CAP on any board or council (such as the SRC) if CAP representation on the board or council
is specifically permitted or mandated by the Act; and
(4) Consult with policymaking and administrative personnel in State and local rehabilitation programs, projects, and community rehabilitation programs, if consultation with the designated agency is specifically permitted or mandated by the Act.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(g)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(g)(1))
§ 370.42
What access must the CAP be afforded to policymaking and administrative personnel?
The CAP must be afforded reasonable access to policymaking and administrative personnel in State and local rehabilitation programs, projects, and community rehabilitation programs. One way in which the CAP may be provided that access would be to include the director of the designated agency among the individuals to be consulted on matters of general policy development and implementation, as required by section 101(a)(16) of the Act.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(16), and 112(g)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(16), and 732(g)(2))
§ 370.43
What requirement applies to the use of mediation procedures?
(a) Each designated agency shall implement procedures designed to ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, good faith negotiations and mediation procedures are used before resorting to formal administrative or legal remedies. In designing these procedures, the designated agency may take into account its level of resources.
(b) For purposes of this section, mediation may involve the use of professional mediators, other independent third parties mutually agreed to by the parties to the dispute, or an employee of the designated agency who—
(1) Is not assigned to advocate for or otherwise represent or is not involved with advocating for or otherwise representing the client or client-applicant who is a party to the mediation; and
(2) Has not previously advocated for or otherwise represented or been involved with advocating for or otherwise representing that same client or client-applicant.
(Authority: Section 112(g)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 732(g)(3))
§ 370.44
What reporting requirement applies to each designated agency?
In addition to the program and fiscal reporting requirements in 34 CFR 76.720 and 2 CFR 200.327
that are applicable to this program, each designated agency shall submit to the Secretary, no later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, an annual report on the operation of its CAP during the previous year, including a summary of the work done and the uniform statistical tabulation of all cases handled by the program. The annual report must contain information on—
(a) The number of requests received by the designated agency for information on services and benefits under the Act and title I of the ADA;
(b) The number of referrals to other agencies made by the designated agency and the reason or reasons for those referrals;
(c) The number of requests for advocacy services received by the designated agency from clients or client-applicants;
(d) The number of requests for advocacy services from clients or client-applicants that the designated agency was unable to serve;
(e) The reasons that the designated agency was unable to serve all of the requests for advocacy services from clients or client-applicants; and
(f) Any other information that the Secretary may require.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0520)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(g)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(g)(4))
§ 370.45
What limitation applies to the pursuit of legal remedies?
A designated agency may not bring any class action in carrying out its responsibilities under this part.
(Authority: Section 112(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 732(d))
§ 370.46
What consultation requirement applies to a Governor of a State?
In designating a client assistance agency under § 370.2, redesignating a client assistance agency under § 370.10, and carrying out the other provisions of this part, the Governor shall consult with the director of the State vocational rehabilitation agency (or, in States with both a general agency and an agency for the blind, the directors of both agencies), the head of the developmental disability protection and advocacy agency, and representatives of professional and consumer organizations serving individuals with disabilities in the State.
(Authority: Section 112(c)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 732(c)(2))
§ 370.47
What is program income and how may it be used?
(a)
Definition.
(1) Consistent with 2 CFR 200.80 and for purposes of this part,
program income
means gross income earned by the designated agency that is directly generated by an activity supported under this part.
(2) Funds received through the transfer of Social Security Administration payments from the designated State unit, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(13), in accordance with 34 CFR 361.63(c)(2) will be treated as program income received under this part.
(b)
Use of program income.
(1) Program income, whenever earned or received, must be used for the provision of services authorized under § 370.4.
(2)(i) The designated agency must use program income to supplement Federal funds that support program activities that are subject to this part. See, for example 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2).
(ii) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.305(a) and consistent with 2 CFR 200.305(b)(5), and to the extent that program income funds are available, a designated agency, regardless of whether it is a State agency, must disburse those funds (including repayments to a revolving fund), rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional funds from the Department.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 108 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 728; and 20 U.S.C. 3474);
§ 370.48
When must grant funds and program income be obligated?
Any Federal funds, including reallotted funds, that are appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out the activities under this part that are not obligated or expended by the designated agency prior to the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year, and any program income received during a fiscal year that is not obligated or expended by the designated agency prior to the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year in which the program income was received, remain available for obligation and expenditure by the designated agency during that succeeding fiscal year in accordance with section 19 of the Act.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 19 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 716)
§ 370.49
What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
(a) All personal information about individuals served by any designated agency under this part, including lists of names, addresses, photographs, and records of evaluation, must be held strictly confidential.
(b) The designated agency's use of information and records concerning individuals must be limited only to purposes directly connected with the CAP, including program evaluation activities. Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, this information may not be disclosed, directly or indirectly, other than in the administration of the CAP, unless the consent of the individual to whom the information applies, or his or her parent, legal guardian, or other legally authorized representative or advocate (including the individual's advocate from the designated agency), has been obtained in writing. A designated agency may not produce any report, evaluation, or
study that reveals any personally identifying information without the written consent of the individual or his or her representative.
(c) Except as limited in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the Secretary or other Federal or State officials responsible for enforcing legal requirements are to have complete access to all—
(1) Records of the designated agency that receives funds under this program; and
(2) All individual case records of clients served under this part without the consent of the client.
(d) For purposes of conducting any periodic audit, preparing or producing any report, or conducting any evaluation of the performance of the CAP established or assisted under this part, the Secretary does not require the designated agency to disclose the identity of, or any other personally identifiable information related to, any individual requesting assistance under the CAP.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section and consistent with paragraph (f) of this section, a designated agency shall disclose to the Secretary, if the Secretary so requests, the identity of, or any other personally identifiable information (
i.e.,
name, address, telephone number, social security number, or any other official code or number by which an individual may be readily identified) related to, any individual requesting assistance under the CAP if—
(1) An audit, evaluation, monitoring review, State plan assurance review, or other investigation produces reliable evidence that there is probable cause to believe that the designated agency has violated its legislative mandate or misused Federal funds; or
(2) The Secretary determines that this information may reasonably lead to further evidence that is directly related to alleged misconduct of the designated agency.
(f) In addition to the protection afforded by paragraph (d) of this section, the right of a person or designated agency not to produce documents or disclose information to the Secretary is governed by the common law of privileges, as interpreted by the courts of the United States.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 112(g)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 732(g)(4))
Pt. 371

# PART 371—AMERICAN INDIAN VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
371.1
What is the American Indian Vocational Rehabilitation Services program?
371.2
Who is eligible for assistance under this program?
371.3
What types of projects are authorized under this program?
371.4
What is the length of the project period under this program?
371.5
What regulations apply to this program?
371.6
What definitions apply to this program?

# Subpart B—Training and Technical Assistance
371.10
What are the requirements for funding training and technical assistance under this subpart?
371.11
How does the Secretary use these funds to provide training and technical assistance?
371.12
How does the Secretary make an award?
371.13
How does the Secretary determine funding priorities?
371.14
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?

# Subpart C—How Does One Apply for a Grant?
371.20
What are the application procedures for this program?
371.21
What are the special application requirements related to the projects funded under this part?

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
371.31
How are grants awarded?
371.32
What other factors does the Secretary consider in reviewing an application?

# Subpart E—What Conditions Apply to a Grantee Under this Program?
371.40
What are the matching requirements?
371.41
What are allowable costs?
371.42
How are services to be administered under this program?
371.43
What other special conditions apply to this program?
371.44
What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
371.45
What notice must be given about the Client Assistance Program (CAP)?

# Authority:
Sections 12(c) and 121 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55596, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 371.1
What is the American Indian Vocational Rehabilitation Services program?
This program is designed to provide vocational rehabilitation services, including culturally appropriate services, to American Indians with disabilities who reside on or near Federal or State reservations, consistent with such eligible individual's strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice, so that such individual may prepare for, and engage in, high-quality employment that will increase opportunities for economic self-sufficiency.
(Authority: Section 121(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 741(a))
§ 371.2
Who is eligible for assistance under this program?
(a) Applications may be made only by Indian tribes and consortia of those Indian tribes located on Federal and State reservations.
(1) The applicant for the grant must be
(i) The governing body of an Indian tribe, either on behalf the Indian tribe or on behalf of a consortium of Indian tribes; or
(ii) A tribal organization that is a separate legal organization from an Indian tribe.
(2) In order to receive a grant under this section, a tribal organization that is not a governing body of an Indian tribe must:
(i) Have as one of its functions the vocational rehabilitation of American Indians with disabilities; and
(ii) Have the approval of the tribe to be served by such organization.
(3) If a grant is made to the governing body of an Indian tribe, either on its own behalf or on behalf of a consortium, or to a tribal organization to perform services benefiting more than one Indian tribe, the approval of each such Indian tribe shall be a prerequisite to the making of such a grant.
(b) Applications for awards under Subpart B may be made by State, local or tribal governments, non-profit organizations, or institutions of higher education.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(a))
§ 371.3
What types of projects are authorized under this program?
The American Indian Vocational Rehabilitation Services program provides financial assistance for the establishment and operation of tribal vocational rehabilitation services programs for American Indians with disabilities who reside on or near Federal or State reservations.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended Act, 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(a))
§ 371.4
What is the length of the project period under this program?
The Secretary approves a project period of up to sixty months.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 121(b)(3))
§ 371.5
What regulations apply to this program?
The following regulations apply to this program—
(a) The regulations in this part 371.
(b) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485;
(c) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards) as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
(d) 34 CFR part 75 Direct Grant Programs
(e) 34 CFR part 77 Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations
(f) 34 CFR part 81 General Education Provisions Act—Enforcement
(g) 34 CFR part 82 New Restrictions on Lobbying
(h) 34 CFR part 84 Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 371.6
What definitions apply to this program?
(a) The definitions of terms included in the applicable regulations listed in § 371.5;
(b) The following definitions also apply to this program—
Act
means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.
Assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs
means as appropriate in each case—
(i)(A) A review of existing data—
(
1
) To determine if an individual is eligible for vocational rehabilitation services; and
(
2
) To assign priority for an order of selection described in an approved plan or the approved grant application; and
(B) To the extent necessary, the provision of appropriate assessment activities to obtain necessary additional data to make the eligibility determination and assignment;
(ii) To the extent additional data are necessary to make a determination of the employment outcomes, and the nature and scope of vocational rehabilitation services, to be included in the individualized plan for employment of an eligible individual, a comprehensive assessment to determine the unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice, including the need for supported employment, of the eligible individual, this comprehensive assessment—
(A) Is limited to information that is necessary to identify the rehabilitation needs of the individual and to develop the individualized plan for employment of the eligible individual;
(B) Uses as a primary source of information, to the maximum extent possible and appropriate and in accordance with confidentiality requirements—
(
1
) Existing information obtained for the purposes of determining the eligibility of the individual and assigning priority for an order of selection described in an approved plan or the approved grant application for the individual; and
(
2
) Information that can be provided by the individual and, if appropriate, by the family of the individual;
(C) May include, to the degree needed to make such a determination, an assessment of the personality, interests, interpersonal skills, intelligence and related functional capacities, educational achievements, work experience, vocational aptitudes, personal and social adjustments, and employment opportunities of the individual, and the medical, psychiatric, psychological, and other pertinent vocational, educational, cultural, social, recreational, and environmental factors, that affect the employment and rehabilitation needs of the individual;
(D) May include, to the degree needed, an appraisal of the patterns of work behavior of the individual and services needed for the individual to acquire occupational skills, and to develop work attitudes, work habits, work tolerance, and social and behavior patterns necessary for successful job performance, including the use of work in real job situations to assess and develop the capacities of the individual to perform adequately in a work environment; and
(E) To the maximum extent possible, relies on information obtained from experiences in integrated employment settings in the community, and other integrated community settings;
(iii) Referral, for the provision of rehabilitation technology services to the individual, to assess and develop the capacities of the individual to perform in a work environment; and
(iv) An exploration of the individual's abilities, capabilities, and capacity to perform in work situations, which must be assessed periodically during trial work experiences, including experiences in which the individual is provided appropriate supports and training.
(Authority: Sections 7(2) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 705(2) and 709(c))
Community rehabilitation program
means a program that provides directly, or facilitates the provision of, one or more of the following vocational rehabilitation services to individuals
with disabilities to enable those individuals to maximize their opportunities for employment, including career advancement—
(i) Medical, psychiatric, psychological, social, and vocational services that are provided under one management;
(ii) Testing, fitting, or training in the use of prosthetic and orthotic devices;
(iii) Recreational therapy;
(iv) Physical and occupational therapy;
(v) Speech, language, and hearing therapy;
(vi) Psychiatric, psychological, and social services, including positive behavior management;
(vii) Assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs;
(viii) Rehabilitation technology;
(ix) Job development, placement, and retention services;
(x) Evaluation or control of specific disabilities;
(xi) Orientation and mobility services for individuals who are blind;
(xii) Extended employment;
(xiii) Psychosocial rehabilitation services;
(xiv) Supported employment services and extended services;
(xv) Customized employment;
(xvi) Services to family members if necessary to enable the applicant or eligible individual to achieve an employment outcome;
(xvii) Personal assistance services; or
(xviii) Services similar to the services described in paragraphs (i) through (xvii) of this definition.
(Authority: Sections 7(4) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 705(4) and 709(c))
Comparable services and benefits
means—
(i) Services and benefits, including accommodations and auxiliary aids and services, that are—
(A) Provided or paid for, in whole or in part, by other Federal, State, or local public agencies, by health insurance, or by employee benefits;
(B) Available to the individual at the time needed to ensure the progress of the individual toward achieving the employment outcome in the individual's individualized plan for employment; and
(C) Commensurate to the services that the individual would otherwise receive from the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit.
(ii) For the purposes of this definition, comparable benefits do not include awards and scholarships based on merit.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(8)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(8)(A))
Competitive integrated employment
means work that—
(i) Is performed on a full-time or part-time basis (including self-employment) and for which an individual is compensated at a rate that—
(A) Is not less than the higher of the rate specified in section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) or the rate required under the applicable State or local minimum wage law;
(B) Is not less than the customary rate paid by the employer for the same or similar work performed by other employees who are not individuals with disabilities and who are similarly situated in similar occupations by the same employer and who have similar training, experience, and skills; and
(C) In the case of an individual who is self-employed, yields an income that is comparable to the income received by other individuals who are not individuals with disabilities and who are self-employed in similar occupations or on similar tasks and who have similar training, experience, and skills; and
(D) Is eligible for the level of benefits provided to other employees; and
(ii) Is at a location—
(A) Typically found in the community; and
(B) Where the employee with a disability interacts for the purpose of performing the duties of the position with other employees within the particular work unit and the entire work site, and, as appropriate to the work performed, other persons (
e.g.,
customers and vendors), who are not individuals with disabilities (not including supervisory personnel or individuals who are providing services to such employee) to the same extent that employees who are not individuals with disabilities
and who are in comparable positions interact with these persons; and
(C) Presents, as appropriate, opportunities for advancement that are similar to those for other employees who are not individuals with disabilities and who have similar positions.
(Authority: Sections 7(5) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(5) and 709(c))
Consortium
means two or more eligible governing bodies of Indian tribes that apply for an award under this program by either:
(i) Designating one governing body to apply for the grant; or
(ii) Establishing and designating a tribal organization to apply for a grant.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(a))
Customized employment
means competitive integrated employment, for an individual with a significant disability, that is based on an individualized determination of the unique strengths, needs, and interests of the individual with a significant disability, is designed to meet the specific abilities of the individual with a significant disability and the business needs of the employer, and is carried out through flexible strategies, such as—
(i) Job exploration by the individual;
(ii) Working with an employer to facilitate placement, including—
(A) Customizing a job description based on current employer needs or on previously unidentified and unmet employer needs; and
(B) Developing a set of job duties, a work schedule and job arrangement, and specifics of supervision (including performance evaluation and review), and determining a job location;
(iii) Using a professional representative chosen by the individual, or if elected self-representation, to work with an employer to facilitate placement; and
(iv) Providing services and supports at the job location.
(Authority: Sections 7(7) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 705(7) and 709(c))
Eligible individual
means an applicant for vocational rehabilitation services who meets the eligibility requirements of Section 102(a)(1) of the Act.
(Authority: Sections 7(20)(A), 12(c), and 102(a)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 705(20)(A), 709(c), and 722)
Employment outcome
means, with respect to an individual, entering, advancing in or retaining full-time or, if appropriate, part-time competitive integrated employment (including customized employment, self-employment, telecommuting or business ownership), or supported employment, that is consistent with an individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
(Authority: Sections 7(11) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 705(11), and 709(c))
Family member
for purposes of receiving vocational rehabilitation services means an individual—
(i) Who either—
(A) Is a relative or guardian of an applicant or eligible individual; or
(B) Lives in the same household as an applicant or eligible individual;
(ii) Who has a substantial interest in the well-being of that individual; and
(iii) Whose receipt of vocational rehabilitation services is necessary to enable the applicant or eligible individual to achieve an employment outcome.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 103(a)(19) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 723(a)(19))
Governing bodies of Indian tribes
means those duly elected or appointed representatives of an Indian tribe or of an Alaskan native village. These representatives must have the authority to enter into contracts, agreements, and grants on behalf of their constituency.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(a))
Indian; American Indian; Indian American; Indian tribe
means—-
(i)
Indian, American Indian,
and
Indian American
mean an individual who is a member of an Indian tribe and includes a Native and a descendant of a Native, as such terms are defined in
subsections (b) and (r) of section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
(ii)
Indian tribe
means any Federal or State Indian tribe, band, rancheria, pueblo, colony, or community, including any Alaskan native village or regional village corporation (as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act) and a tribal organization (as defined in section 4(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450(b)(l)) and this section.
(Authority: Section 7(19) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 705(19))
Individual with a disability
means—
In general any individual—
(i) Who has a physical or mental impairment;
(ii) Whose impairment constitutes or results in a substantial impediment to employment; and
(iii) Who can benefit in terms of an employment outcome from the provision of vocational rehabilitation services.
(Authority: Section 7(20)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(20)(A))
Individual with a significant disability
means—
In general an individual with a disability—
(i) Who has a severe physical or mental impairment that seriously limits one or more functional capacities (such as mobility, communication, self-care, self-direction, interpersonal skills, work tolerance, or work skills) in terms of an employment outcome;
(ii) Whose vocational rehabilitation can be expected to require multiple vocational rehabilitation services over an extended period of time; and
(iii) Who has one or more physical or mental disabilities resulting from amputation, arthritis, autism, blindness, burn injury, cancer, cerebral palsy, cystic fibrosis, deafness, head injury, heart disease, hemiplegia, hemophilia, respiratory or pulmonary dysfunction, intellectual disability, mental illness, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, musculo-skeletal disorders, neurological disorders (including stroke and epilepsy), spinal cord conditions (including paraplegia and quadriplegia), sickle cell anemia, specific learning disability, end-stage renal disease, or another disability or combination of disabilities determined on the basis of an assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs to cause comparable substantial functional limitation.
(Authority: Section 7(21) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 705(21))
Maintenance
means monetary support provided to an individual for expenses, such as food, shelter, and clothing, that are in excess of the normal expenses of the individual and that are necessitated by the individual's participation in an assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs or the individual's receipt of vocational rehabilitation services under an individualized plan for employment.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 103(a)(7) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 723(a)(7))
Examples:
The following are examples of expenses that would meet the definition of maintenance. The examples are illustrative, do not address all possible circumstances, and are not intended to substitute for individual counselor judgment.

# Example 1:
The cost of a uniform or other suitable clothing that is required for an individual's job placement or job-seeking activities.

# Example 2:
The cost of short-term shelter that is required in order for an individual to participate in assessment activities or vocational training at a site that is not within commuting distance of an individual's home.

# Example 3:
The initial one-time costs, such as a security deposit or charges for the initiation of utilities, that are required in order for an individual to relocate for a job placement.
Physical and mental restoration services
means—
(i) Corrective surgery or therapeutic treatment that is likely, within a reasonable period of time, to correct or modify substantially a stable or slowly progressive physical or mental impairment that constitutes a substantial impediment to employment;
(ii) Diagnosis of and treatment for mental or emotional disorders by qualified personnel in accordance with State licensure laws;
(iii) Dentistry;
(iv) Nursing services;
(v) Necessary hospitalization (either inpatient or outpatient care) in connection with surgery or treatment and clinic services;
(vi) Drugs and supplies;
(vii) Prosthetic and orthotic devices;
(viii) Eyeglasses and visual services, including visual training, and the examination and services necessary for the prescription and provision of eyeglasses, contact lenses, microscopic lenses, telescopic lenses, and other special visual aids prescribed by personnel that are qualified in accordance with State licensure laws;
(ix) Podiatry;
(x) Physical therapy;
(xi) Occupational therapy;
(xii) Speech or hearing therapy;
(xiii) Mental health services;
(xiv) Treatment of either acute or chronic medical complications and emergencies that are associated with or arise out of the provision of physical and mental restoration services, or that are inherent in the condition under treatment;
(xv) Special services for the treatment of individuals with end-stage renal disease, including transplantation, dialysis, artificial kidneys, and supplies; and
(xvi) Other medical or medically related rehabilitation services.
(xvii) Services reflecting the cultural background of the American Indian being served, including treatment provided by native healing practitioners in accordance with 34 CFR 371.41(a)(2).
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 103(a)(6), and 121(b)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 723(a)(6), and 741(b)(1)(B))
Physical or mental impairment
means—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological, musculo-skeletal, special sense organs, respiratory (including speech organs), cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, hemic and lymphatic, skin, and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder such as intellectual or developmental disability, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities.
(Authority: Sections 7(20)(A) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(20)(A) and 709(c))
Post-employment services
means one or more of the services that are provided subsequent to the achievement of an employment outcome and that are necessary for an individual to maintain, regain, or advance in employment, consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 103(a)(18) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c)) and 723(a)(18))

# Note to definition of post-employment services:
Post-employment services are intended to ensure that the employment outcome remains consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice. These services are available to meet rehabilitation needs that do not require a complex and comprehensive provision of services and, thus, should be limited in scope and duration. If more comprehensive services are required, then a new rehabilitation effort should be considered. Post-employment services are to be provided under an amended individualized plan for employment; thus, a re-determination of eligibility is not required. The provision of post-employment services is subject to the same requirements in this part as the provision of any other vocational rehabilitation service. Post-employment services are available to assist an individual to maintain employment,
e.g.,
the individual's employment is jeopardized because of conflicts with supervisors or co-workers, and the individual needs mental health services and counseling to maintain the employment; or the individual requires assistive technology to maintain the employment; to regain employment,
e.g.,
the individual's job is eliminated through reorganization and new placement services are needed; and to advance in employment,
e.g.,
the employment is no longer consistent with the individual's unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice.
Representatives of the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation program
means, consistent with 34 CFR 371.21(b), those individuals specifically responsible for
determining eligibility, the nature and scope of vocational rehabilitation services, and the provision of those services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(1)(D) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(1)(D))
Reservation
means a Federal or State Indian reservation, public domain Indian allotment, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act; or a defined area of land recognized by a State or the Federal Government where there is a concentration of tribal members and on which the tribal government is providing structured activities and services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(e) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(e))
Subsistence
means a form of self-employment in which individuals produce, using culturally relevant and traditional methods, goods or services that are predominantly consumed by their own household or used for noncommercial customary trade or barter and that constitute an important basis for the worker's livelihood.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
Substantial impediment to employment
means that a physical or mental impairment (in light of attendant medical, psychological, vocational, educational, communication, and other related factors) hinders an individual from preparing for, entering into, engaging in, advancing in or retaining employment consistent with the individual's abilities and capabilities.
(Authority: Sections 7(20)(A) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(20)(A) and 709(c))
Supported employment
—(i)
Supported employment
means competitive integrated employment, including customized employment, or employment in an integrated work setting in which an individual with a most significant disability, including a youth with a most significant disability, is working on a short-term basis toward competitive integrated employment that is individualized, consistent with the unique strengths, abilities, interests, and informed choice of the individual, including with ongoing support services for individuals with the most significant disabilities—
(A) For whom competitive integrated employment has not historically occurred, or for whom competitive integrated employment has been interrupted or intermittent as a result of a significant disability; and
(B) Who, because of the nature and severity of their disability, need intensive supported employment services and extended services after the transition from support provided by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation Unit, in order to perform this work.
(ii) For purposes of this part, an individual with the most significant disabilities, whose supported employment in an integrated setting does not satisfy the criteria of competitive integrated employment is considered to be working on a short-term basis toward competitive integrated employment so long as the individual can reasonably anticipate achieving competitive integrated employment:
(A) Within six months of achieving a supported employment outcome; or
(B) Within a period not to exceed 12 months from the achievement of the supported employment outcome, if a longer period is necessary based on the needs of the individual, and the individual has demonstrated progress toward competitive earnings based on information contained in the service record.
(Authority: Sections 7(38) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(38) and 709(c))
Supported employment services
means ongoing support services, including customized employment, and other appropriate services needed to support and maintain an individual with a most significant disability, including a youth with a most significant disability, in supported employment that are:
(i) Organized and made available, singly or in combination, in such a way as to assist an eligible individual to
achieve competitive integrated employment;
(ii) Based on a determination of the needs of an eligible individual, as specified in an individualized plan for employment;
(iii) Provided by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation Unit for a period of time not to exceed 24 months, unless under special circumstances the eligible individual and the rehabilitation counselor or coordinator jointly agree to extend the time to achieve the employment outcome identified in the individualized plan for employment; and
(iv) Following transition, as post-employment services that are unavailable from an extended services provider and that are necessary to maintain or regain the job placement or advance in employment.
(Authority: Sections 7(39) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(39) and 709(c))
Transition services
means a coordinated set of activities for a student or youth with a disability—
(i) Designed within an outcome-oriented process that promotes movement from school to post-school activities, including postsecondary education, vocational training, competitive integrated employment, supported employment, continuing and adult education, adult services, independent living, or community participation;
(ii) Based upon the individual student's or youth's needs, taking into account the student's or youth's preferences and interests;
(iii) That includes instruction, community experiences, the development of employment and other post-school adult living objectives, and, if appropriate, acquisition of daily living skills and functional vocational evaluation;
(iv) That promotes or facilitates the achievement of the employment outcome identified in the student's or youth's individualized plan for employment; and
(v) That includes outreach to and engagement of the parents, or, as appropriate, the representative of such a student or youth with a disability.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 103(a)(15), and (b)(7) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 723(a)(15), and (b)(7))
Transportation
means travel and related expenses that are necessary to enable an applicant or eligible individual to participate in a vocational rehabilitation service, including expenses for training in the use of public transportation vehicles and systems.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 103(a)(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 723(a)(8))
Tribal organization
means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe or any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities.
(Authority: Sections 7(19) and 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(19) and 709(c); Section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 25 U.S.C. 450(b))
Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation program
means the unit designated by the governing bodies of an Indian Tribe, or consortia of governing bodies, to implement and administer the grant under this program in accordance with the purpose of the grant and all applicable programmatic and fiscal requirements.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(1))
Vocational Rehabilitation Services for Individuals
means any services described in an individualized plan for employment necessary to assist an individual with a disability in preparing for, securing, retaining, advancing in or regaining an employment outcome that is consistent with the unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice of the individual, including, but not limited to—
(i) An assessment for determining eligibility, priority for services, and vocational rehabilitation needs by qualified personnel, including, if appropriate, an assessment by personnel skilled in rehabilitation technology.
(ii) Vocational rehabilitation counseling and guidance, including information and support services to assist an individual in exercising informed choice.
(iii) Referral and other services necessary to assist applicants and eligible individuals to secure needed services from other agencies and to advise those individuals about client assistance programs established under 34 CFR part 370.
(iv) Physical and mental restoration services, to the extent that financial support is not readily available from a source other than the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit (such as through health insurance or a comparable service or benefit).
(v) Vocational and other training services, including personal and vocational adjustment training, advanced training (particularly advanced training in a field of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (including computer science), medicine, law or business); books, tools, and other training materials, except that no training or training services in an institution of higher education (universities, colleges, community or junior colleges, vocational schools, technical institutes, or hospital schools of nursing or any other postsecondary education institution) may be paid for with funds under this part unless maximum efforts have been made by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit and the individual to secure grant assistance in whole or in part from other sources to pay for that training.
(vi) Maintenance.
(vii) Transportation in connection with the provision of any vocational rehabilitation service.
(viii) Vocational rehabilitation services to family members of an applicant or eligible individual if necessary to enable the applicant or eligible individual to achieve an employment outcome.
(ix) Interpreter services, including sign language and oral interpreter services, for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and tactile interpreting services for individuals who are deaf-blind provided by qualified personnel.
(x) Reader services, rehabilitation teaching services, and orientation and mobility services for individuals who are blind.
(xi) Job-related services, including job search and placement assistance, job retention services, follow-up services, and follow-along services.
(xii) Supported employment services.
(xiii) Personal assistance services.
(xiv) Post-employment services.
(xv) Occupational licenses, tools, equipment, initial stocks, and supplies.
(xvi) Rehabilitation technology, including vehicular modification, telecommunications, sensory, and other technological aids and devices.
(xvii) Transition services for students and youth with disabilities that facilitate the transition from school to postsecondary life, such as achievement of an employment outcome in competitive integrated employment.
(xviii) Technical assistance and other consultation services to conduct market analyses, develop business plans, and otherwise provide resources to eligible individuals who are pursuing self-employment or telecommuting or establishing a small business operation as an employment outcome.
(xix) Customized employment.
(x) Other goods and services determined necessary for the individual with a disability to achieve an employment outcome.
Vocational Rehabilitation Services for Groups of Individuals provided for the benefit of groups of individuals with disabilities
—
(i) May be provided by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation Unit and may include the following:
(A) In the case of any small business enterprise operated by individuals with significant disabilities under the supervision of the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit, management services and supervision provided by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit, along with the acquisition by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit of vending facilities or other equipment and initial stocks and supplies in accordance with the following requirements:
(
1
) Management services and supervision includes inspection, quality control, consultation, accounting, regulating, in-service training, and related services provided on a systematic basis to support and improve small business enterprises operated by individuals with significant disabilities. Management services and supervision may be provided throughout the operation of the small business enterprise.
(
2
) Initial stocks and supplies include those items necessary to the establishment of a new business enterprise during the initial establishment period, which may not exceed 6 months.
(
3
) Costs of establishing a small business enterprise may include operational costs during the initial establishment period, which may not exceed six months.
(
4
) If the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit provides for these services, it must ensure that only individuals with significant disabilities will be selected to participate in this supervised program.
(
5
) If the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit provides for these services and chooses to set aside funds from the proceeds of the operation of the small business enterprises, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must maintain a description of the methods used in setting aside funds and the purposes for which funds are set aside. Funds may be used only for small business enterprises purposes, and benefits that are provided to operators from set-aside funds must be provided on an equitable basis.
(B) The establishment, development, or improvement of a community rehabilitation program that is used to provide vocational rehabilitation services that promote integration into the community and prepare individuals with disabilities for competitive integrated employment, including supported employment and customized employment, and under special circumstances, the construction of a community rehabilitation facility. Examples of “special circumstances” include the destruction by natural disaster of the only available center serving an area or a Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit determination that construction is necessary in a rural area because no other public agencies or private nonprofit organizations are currently able to provide vocational rehabilitation services to individuals.
(C) Telecommunications systems (that have the potential for substantially improving vocational rehabilitation service delivery methods and developing appropriate programming to meet the particular needs of individuals with disabilities including telephone, television, video description services, satellite, tactile-vibratory devices, and similar systems, as appropriate.
(D) Special services to provide nonvisual access to information for individuals who are blind, including the use of telecommunications, Braille, sound recordings, or other appropriate media; captioned television, films, or video cassettes for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing; tactile materials for individuals who are deaf-blind; and other special services that provide information through tactile, vibratory, auditory, and visual media.
(E) Technical assistance to businesses that are seeking to employ individuals with disabilities.
(F) Consultation and technical assistance services to assist State educational agencies and local educational agencies, and, where appropriate, Tribal Educational agencies, in planning for the transition of students with disabilities from school to postsecondary life, including employment.
(G) Transition services to youth with disabilities and students with disabilities, for which a vocational rehabilitation counselor works in concert with educational agencies, providers of job training programs, providers of services under the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
), entities designated by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit to provide services for individuals with developmental disabilities, centers for independent living (as defined in section 702 of the Act), housing and transportation authorities, workforce development systems, and businesses and employers. These specific transition services are to benefit a group of students with disabilities or youth with disabilities and are not individualized services directly related to
a goal in an individualized plan for employment (IPE). Services may include, but are not limited to group tours of universities and vocational training programs, employer or business site visits to learn about career opportunities, career fairs coordinated with workforce development and employers to facilitate mock interviews and resume writing, and other general services applicable to groups of students with disabilities and youth with disabilities.
(H) The establishment, development, or improvement of assistive technology demonstration, loan, reutilization, or financing programs in coordination with activities authorized under the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
) to promote access to assistive technology for individuals with disabilities and employers.
(I) Support (including, as appropriate, tuition) for advanced training in a field of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (including computer science), medicine, law, or business, provided after an individual eligible to receive services under this title, demonstrates:
(
1
) Such eligibility;
(
2
) Previous completion of a bachelor's degree program at an institution of higher education or scheduled completion of such degree program prior to matriculating in the program for which the individual proposes to use the support; and
(
3
) Acceptance by a program at an institution of higher education in the United States that confers a master's degree in a field of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (including computer science), a juris doctor degree, a master of business administration degree, or a doctor of medicine degree, except that—
(
i
) No training provided at an institution of higher education shall be paid for with funds under this program unless maximum efforts have been made by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit and the individual to secure grant assistance, in whole or in part, from other sources to pay for such training; and
(
ii
) Nothing in this paragraph prevents any Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit from providing similar support to individuals with disabilities pursuant to their approved IPEs who are eligible to receive support under this program and who are not served under this paragraph.
(ii) If the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation Unit provides for vocational rehabilitation services for groups of individuals it must —
(A) Develop and maintain written policies covering the nature and scope of each of the vocational rehabilitation services it provides and the criteria under which each service is provided; and
(B) Maintain information to ensure the proper and efficient administration of those services in the form and detail and at the time required by the Secretary, including the types of services provided, the costs of those services, and to the extent feasible, estimates of the numbers of individuals benefiting from those services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 103(a) and (b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 723(a) and (b))

# Subpart B—Training and Technical Assistance
§ 371.10
What are the requirements for funding training and technical assistance under this subpart?
The Secretary shall first reserve not less than 1.8 percent and not more than 2 percent of funds appropriated and made available to carry out this program to provide training and technical assistance to the governing bodies of Indian tribes and consortia of those governing bodies awarded a grant under this program.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and Section 121(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(c))
§ 371.11
How does the Secretary use these funds to provide training and technical assistance?
(a) The Secretary uses these funds to make grants to, or enter into contracts or other cooperative agreements with, entities that have staff with experience in the operation of vocational rehabilitation services programs under this part.
(b) An entity receiving assistance in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
section shall provide training and technical assistance with respect to developing, conducting, administering, and evaluating tribal vocational rehabilitation programs funded under this part.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and Section 121(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(c))
§ 371.12
How does the Secretary make an award?
(a) To be eligible to receive a grant or enter into a contract or cooperative agreement under section 121(c) of the Act and this subpart, an applicant shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing a proposal to provide such training and technical assistance, and any additional information as the Secretary may require.
(b) The Secretary shall provide for peer review of applications by panels that include persons who are not Federal or State government employees and who have experience in the operation of vocational rehabilitation services programs under this part.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and Section 121(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(c))
§ 371.13
How does the Secretary determine funding priorities?
The Secretary shall conduct a survey of the governing bodies of Indian tribes funded under this part regarding training and technical assistance needs in order to determine funding priorities for such training and technical assistance.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and Section 121(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(c))
§ 371.14
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?
(a) The Secretary evaluates each application for a grant, cooperative agreement or contract under this subpart on the basis of the selection criteria chosen from the general selection criteria found in EDGAR regulations at 34 CFR 75.210.
(b) The Secretary may award a competitive preference consistent with 34 CFR 75.102(c)(2) to applications that include as project personnel in a substantive role, individuals that have been employed as a project director or VR counselor by a Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit funded under this part.
(c) If using a contract to award funds under this subpart, the Secretary may conduct the application process and make the subsequent award in accordance with 34 CFR part 75.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and Section 121(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(c))

# Subpart C—How Does One Apply for a Grant?
§ 371.20
What are the application procedures for this program?
(a) In the development of an application, the applicant is required to consult with the designated State unit (DSU) for the state vocational rehabilitation program in the State or States in which vocational rehabilitation services are to be provided.
(b) The procedures for the review and comment by the DSU or the DSUs of the State or States in which vocational rehabilitation services are to be provided on applications submitted from within the State that the DSU or DSUs serve are in 34 CFR 75.155-75.159.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(1)(C) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(1)(C))
§ 371.21
What are the special application requirements related to the projects funded under this part?
Each applicant under this program must provide evidence that—
(a) Effort will be made to provide a broad scope of vocational rehabilitation services in a manner and at a level of quality at least comparable to those services provided by the designated State unit.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(1)(B))
(b) All decisions affecting eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services, the nature and scope of available vocational rehabilitation services and the provision of such services will be made by a representative of the tribal vocational rehabilitation program funded through this grant and such decisions
will not be delegated to another agency or individual.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(1)(D) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(1)(D))
(c) Priority in the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services will be given to those American Indians with disabilities who are the most significantly disabled.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(5) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(5))
(d) An order of selection of individuals with disabilities to be served under the program will be specified if services cannot be provided to all eligible American Indians with disabilities who apply.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(5) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709 (c) and 721(a)(5))
(e) All vocational rehabilitation services will be provided according to an individualized plan for employment which has been developed jointly by the representative of the tribal vocational rehabilitation program and each American Indian with disabilities being served.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(9) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721 (a)(9))
(f) American Indians with disabilities living on or near Federal or State reservations where tribal vocational rehabilitation service programs are being carried out under this part will have an opportunity to participate in matters of general policy development and implementation affecting vocational rehabilitation service delivery by the tribal vocational rehabilitation program.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(16) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(16))
(g) Cooperative working arrangements will be developed with the DSU, or DSUs, as appropriate, which are providing vocational rehabilitation services to other individuals with disabilities who reside in the State or States being served.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(11)(F) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(11)(F))
(h) Any comparable services and benefits available to American Indians with disabilities under any other program, which might meet in whole or in part the cost of any vocational rehabilitation service, will be fully considered in the provision of vocational rehabilitation services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(8))
(i) Any American Indian with disabilities who is an applicant or recipient of services, and who is dissatisfied with a determination made by a representative of the tribal vocational rehabilitation program and files a request for a review, will be afforded a review under procedures developed by the grantee comparable to those under the provisions of section 102(c)(1)-(5) and (7) of the Act.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 102(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 722(c)(1)-(5) and (7))
(j) The tribal vocational rehabilitation program funded under this part must assure that any facility used in connection with the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services meets facility and program accessibility requirements consistent with the requirements, as applicable, of the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 504 of the Act, and the regulations implementing these laws.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(6)(C) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(6)(C))
(k) The tribal vocational rehabilitation program funded under this part must ensure that providers of vocational rehabilitation services are able to communicate in the native language of, or by using an appropriate mode of communication with, applicants and eligible individuals who have limited
English proficiency, unless it is clearly not feasible to do so.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 101(a)(6)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 721(a)(6)(A))

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
§ 371.31
How are grants awarded?
To the extent that funds have been appropriated under this program, the Secretary approves all applications which meet acceptable standards of program quality. If any application is not approved because of deficiencies in proposed program standards, the Secretary provides technical assistance to the applicant Indian tribe with respect to any areas of the proposal which were judged to be deficient.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(1)(A) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(1)(A))
§ 371.32
What other factors does the Secretary consider in reviewing an application?
(a) In addition to the selection criteria used in accordance with the procedures in 34 CFR part 75, the Secretary, in making an award under this program, considers the past performance of the applicant in carrying out similar activities under previously awarded grants, as indicated by such factors as compliance with grant conditions, soundness of programmatic and financial management practices and attainment of established project objectives.
(b) The Secretary may award a competitive preference consistent with 34 CFR 75.102(c)(2) to applications for the continuation of programs which have been funded under this program.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 121(b)(1)(A), and 121(b)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 741(b)(1)(A)), and 741(b)(4).

# Subpart E—What Conditions Apply to a Grantee Under this Program?
§ 371.40
What are the matching requirements?
(a)
Federal share
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the Federal share may not be more than 90 percent of the total cost of the project.
(b)
Non-Federal share
The non-Federal share of the cost of the project may be in cash or in kind, fairly valued pursuant to match requirements in 2 CFR 200.306.
(c)
Waiver of non-Federal share
In order to carry out the purposes of the program, the Secretary may waive the non-Federal share requirement, in part or in whole, only if the applicant demonstrates that it does not have sufficient resources to contribute the non-Federal share of the cost of the project.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(a))
§ 371.41
What are allowable costs?
(a) In addition to those allowable cost established in 2 CFR 200.400—200.475, the following items are allowable costs under this program—
(1) Expenditures for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services and for the administration, including staff development, of a program of vocational rehabilitation services.
(2) Expenditures for services reflecting the cultural background of the American Indians being served, including treatment provided by native healing practitioners who are recognized as such by the tribal vocational rehabilitation program when the services are necessary to assist an individual with disabilities to achieve his or her vocational rehabilitation objective.
(b) Expenditures may not be made under this program to cover the costs of providing vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities not residing on or near Federal or State reservations.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(a) and (b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(a) and (b)(1))
§ 371.42
How are services to be administered under this program?
(a)
Directly or by contract.
A grantee under this part may provide the vocational rehabilitation services directly or it may contract or otherwise enter
into an agreement with a DSU, a community rehabilitation program, or another agency to assist in the implementation of the tribal vocational rehabilitation program.
(b)
Inter-tribal agreement.
A grantee under this part may enter into an inter-tribal arrangement with governing bodies of other Indian tribes for carrying out a project that serves more than one Indian tribe.
(c)
Comparable services.
To the maximum extent feasible, services provided by a grantee under this part must be comparable to vocational rehabilitation services provided under the State vocational rehabilitation program to other individuals with disabilities residing in the State.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(1)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(1)(B))
§ 371.43
What other special conditions apply to this program?
(a) Any American Indian with disabilities who is eligible for services under this program but who wishes to be provided services by the DSU must be referred to the DSU for such services.
(Authority: Sec. 12(c) and 121(b)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(3))
(b) Preference in employment in connection with the provision of vocational rehabilitation services under this section must be given to American Indians, with a special priority being given to American Indians with disabilities.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(2))
(c) The provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, and 102(a) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act also apply under this program (25 U.S.C. 450c, 450d, 450e, and 450f(a)). These provisions relate to grant reporting and audit requirements, maintenance of records, access to records, availability of required reports and information to Indian people served or represented, repayment of unexpended Federal funds, criminal activities involving grants, penalties, wage and labor standards, preference requirements for American Indians in the conduct and administration of the grant, and requirements affecting requests of tribal organizations to enter into contracts. For purposes of applying these requirements to this program, the Secretary carries out those responsibilities assigned to the Secretary of Interior.
(Authority: Sec. 12(c) and 121(b)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C 709(c) and 741(b)(2))
(d) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must develop and maintain written policies regarding the provision of vocational rehabilitation services that ensure that the provision of services is based on the vocational rehabilitation needs of each individual as identified in that individual's IPE and is consistent with the individual's informed choice. The written policies may not establish any arbitrary limits on the nature and scope of vocational rehabilitation services to be provided to the individual to achieve an employment outcome. The policies must be developed in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Off-reservation services.
(i) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may establish a preference for on- or near-reservation services, provided that the preference does not effectively deny an individual a necessary service. If the individual chooses an equivalent off-reservation service at a higher cost than an available on- or near-reservation service, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit is not responsible for those costs in excess of the cost of the on- or near-reservation service, if either service would meet the individual's rehabilitation needs.
(ii) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may not establish policies that effectively prohibit the provision of off-reservation services.
(2)
Payment for services
(i) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must establish and maintain written policies to govern the rates of payment for all purchased vocational rehabilitation services.
(ii) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may establish a fee schedule designed to ensure the program pays a reasonable cost for each service, as long as the fee schedule—
(A) Is not so low as effectively to deny an individual a necessary service; and
(B) permits exceptions so that individual needs can be addressed.
(C) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may not place absolute dollar limits on the amount it will pay for specific service categories or on the total services provided to an individual.
(3)
Duration of services
(i) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may establish reasonable time periods for the provision of services provided that the time periods—
(A) Are not so short as effectively to deny an individual a necessary service; and
(B) Permit exceptions so that individual needs can be addressed.
(ii) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may not place time limits on the provision of specific services or on the provision of services to an individual. The duration of each service needed by an individual must be determined on the basis of that individual's needs and reflected in that individual's individualized plan for employment.
(4)
Authorization of services.
The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must establish policies related to the timely authorization of services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b))
(e)
Informed choice.
Each individual who is an applicant for or eligible to receive vocational rehabilitation services must be afforded the opportunity to exercise informed choice throughout the vocational rehabilitation process carried out under programs funded under this part. The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must develop and maintain written policies and procedures that require it—
(1) To inform each applicant and eligible individual, through appropriate modes of communication, about the availability of, and opportunities to exercise, informed choice, including the availability of support services for individuals with cognitive or other disabilities who require assistance in exercising informed choice, throughout the vocational rehabilitation process;
(2) To assist applicants and eligible individuals in exercising informed choice in decisions related to the provision of assessment services;
(3) To develop and implement flexible procurement policies and methods that facilitate the provision of vocational rehabilitation services, and that afford eligible individuals meaningful choices among the methods used to procure vocational rehabilitation services;
(4) To provide or assist eligible individuals in acquiring information that enables them to exercise informed choice in the development of their IPEs and selection of—
(i) The employment outcome;
(ii) The specific vocational rehabilitation services needed to achieve the employment outcome;
(iii) The entity that will provide the services;
(iv) The employment setting and the settings in which the services will be provided; and
(v) The methods available for procuring the services; and
(5) To ensure that the availability and scope of informed choice is consistent with the obligations of the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit.
(6) Information and assistance in the selection of vocational rehabilitation services and service providers: In assisting an applicant and eligible individual in exercising informed choice during the assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs and during development of the IPE, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must provide the individual or the individual's representative, or assist the individual or the individual's representative in acquiring, information necessary to make an informed choice about the specific vocational rehabilitation services, including the providers of those services, that are needed to achieve the individual's employment outcome. This information must include, at a minimum, information relating to the—
(i) Cost, accessibility, and duration of potential services;
(ii) Consumer satisfaction with those services to the extent that information relating to consumer satisfaction is available;
(iii) Qualifications of potential service providers;
(iv) Types of services offered by the potential providers;
(v) Degree to which services are provided in integrated settings; and
(vi) Outcomes achieved by individuals working with service providers, to the extent that such information is available.
(7) Methods or sources of information: In providing or assisting the individual or the individual's representative in acquiring the information required under paragraph (c) of this section, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may use, but is not limited to, the following methods or sources of information:
(i) Lists of services and service providers.
(ii) Periodic consumer satisfaction surveys and reports.
(iii) Referrals to other consumers, consumer groups, or disability advisory councils qualified to discuss the services or service providers.
(iv) Relevant accreditation, certification, or other information relating to the qualifications of service providers.
(v) Opportunities for individuals to visit or experience various work and service provider settings.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0500)
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 102(b)(2)(B), and 102(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 722(b)(2)(B), and 722(d))
§ 371.44
What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
(a)
General provisions.
(1) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must adopt and implement written policies and procedures to safeguard the confidentiality of all personal information, including photographs and lists of names. These policies and procedures must ensure that—
(i) Specific safeguards are established to protect current and stored personal information, including a requirement that data only be released when governed by a written agreement between the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit and receiving entity under paragraphs (d) and (e)(1) of this section, which addresses the requirements in this section;
(ii) All applicants and eligible individuals and, as appropriate, those individuals' representatives, service providers, cooperating agencies, and interested persons are informed through appropriate modes of communication of the confidentiality of personal information and the conditions for accessing and releasing this information;
(iii) All applicants or their representatives are informed about the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit's need to collect personal information and the policies governing its use, including—
(A) Identification of the authority under which information is collected;
(B) Explanation of the principal purposes for which the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit intends to use or release the information;
(C) Explanation of whether providing requested information to the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit is mandatory or voluntary and the effects of not providing requested information;
(D) Identification of those situations in which the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit requires or does not require informed written consent of the individual before information may be released; and
(E) Identification of other agencies to which information is routinely released;
(iv) An explanation of the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit's policies and procedures affecting personal information will be provided to each individual in that individual's native language or through the appropriate mode of communication; and
(v) These policies and procedures provide no fewer protections for individuals than State laws and regulations.
(2) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may establish reasonable fees to cover extraordinary costs of duplicating records or making extensive searches and must establish policies and procedures governing access to records.
(b)
Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation Program Use.
All personal information in the possession of the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must be
used only for the purposes directly connected with the administration of the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation program. Information containing identifiable personal information may not be shared with advisory or other bodies or other tribal agencies that do not have official responsibility for administration of the program. In the administration of the program, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may obtain personal information from service providers and cooperating agencies under assurances that the information may not be further divulged, except as provided under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
(c)
Release to applicants and eligible individuals.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, if requested in writing by an applicant or eligible individual, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must make all requested information in that individual's record of services accessible to and must release the information to the individual or the individual's representative in a timely manner.
(2) Medical, psychological, or other information that the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit determines may be harmful to the individual may not be released directly to the individual, but must be provided to the individual through a third party chosen by the individual, which may include, among others, an advocate, a family member, or a qualified medical or mental health professional, unless a representative has been appointed by a court to represent the individual, in which case the information must be released to the court-appointed representative.
(3) If personal information has been obtained from another agency or organization, it may be released only by, or under the conditions established by, the other agency or organization.
(4) An applicant or eligible individual who believes that information in the individual's record of services is inaccurate or misleading may request that the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit amend the information. If the information is not amended, the request for an amendment must be documented in the record of services.
(d)
Release for audit, evaluation, and research.
Personal information may be released to an organization, agency, or individual engaged in audit, evaluation, or research only for purposes directly connected with the administration of the tribal vocational rehabilitation program or for purposes that would significantly improve the quality of life for applicants and eligible individuals and only if, in accordance with a written agreement, the organization, agency, or individual assures that—
(1) The information will be used only for the purposes for which it is being provided;
(2) The information will be released only to persons officially connected with the audit, evaluation, or research;
(3) The information will not be released to the involved individual;
(4) The information will be managed in a manner to safeguard confidentiality; and
(5) The final product will not reveal any personal identifying information without the informed written consent of the involved individual or the individual's representative.
(e)
Release to other programs or authorities.
(1) Upon receiving the informed written consent of the individual or, if appropriate, the individual's representative, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may release personal information to another agency or organization, in accordance with a written agreement, for its program purposes only to the extent that the information may be released to the involved individual or the individual's representative and only to the extent that the other agency or organization demonstrates that the information requested is necessary for its program.
(2) Medical or psychological information that the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit determines may be harmful to the individual may be released if the other agency or organization assures the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit that the information will be used only for the purpose for which it is being provided and will not be further released to the individual.
(3) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must release personal information if required by Federal law or regulations.
(4) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must release personal information in response to investigations in connection with law enforcement, fraud, or abuse, unless expressly prohibited by Federal or State laws or regulations, and in response to an order issued by a judge, magistrate, or other authorized judicial officer.
(5) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit also may release personal information in order to protect the individual or others if the individual poses a threat to his or her safety or to the safety of others.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 121(b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 741(b)(1))
§ 371.45
What notice must be given about the Client Assistance Program (CAP)?
The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit shall use formats that are accessible to notify individuals seeking or receiving services under this part, or as appropriate, the parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of those individuals, about—
(a) The availability of CAP authorized by section 112 of the Act;
(b) The purposes of the services provided under the CAP; and
(c) How to contact the CAP.
(Authority: Section 20 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 717)
Pt. 373

# PART 373—REHABILITATION NATIONAL ACTIVITIES PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
373.1
What is the purpose of the Rehabilitation National Activities program?
373.2
Who is eligible for assistance?
373.3
What regulations apply?
373.4
What definitions apply?
373.5
Who is eligible to receive services and to benefit from activities conducted by eligible entities?
373.6
What types of projects may be funded?
373.7
What are the priorities and other factors and requirements for competitions?

# Subpart B—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
373.10
What selection criteria does the Secretary use?
373.11
What other factors does the Secretary consider when making a grant?

# Subpart C—What Conditions Must Be Met By a Grantee?
373.20
What are the matching requirements?
373.21
What are the reporting requirements under this part?
373.22
What are the limitations on indirect costs?
373.23
What additional requirements must be met?
373.24
What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?

# Authority:
Section 303(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 773(b); Pub. L. 111-256, 124 Stat. 2643; unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55607, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 373.1
What is the purpose of the Rehabilitation National Activities program?
The purpose of this program is to provide competitive grants, including cooperative agreements, to, or enter into contracts with, eligible entities to expand and improve the provision of vocational rehabilitation and other services authorized under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (Act), or to further the purposes and policies in sections 2(b) and (c) of the Act by supporting activities that increase the provision, extent, availability, scope, and quality of rehabilitation services under the Act, including related research and evaluation activities.
(Authority: Sections 2(b) and (c), 7(40), 12(c), and 303(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 701(b) and (c), 705(40), 709(c), and 773(b))
§ 373.2
Who is eligible for assistance?
(a) The following types of organizations are eligible for assistance under this program:
(1) State vocational rehabilitation agencies.
(2) Community rehabilitation programs.
(3) Indian tribes or tribal organizations.
(4) Other public or nonprofit agencies or organizations, including institutions of higher education.
(5) For-profit organizations, if the Secretary considers them to be appropriate.
(6) Consortia that meet the requirements of 34 CFR 75.128 and 75.129.
(7) Other organizations identified by the Secretary and published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) In competitions held under this program, the Secretary may limit competitions to one or more types of these organizations.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 303(b)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 773(b)(2))
§ 373.3
What regulations apply?
The following regulations apply to this program:
(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:
(1) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs).
(2) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations).
(3) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).
(4) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act—Enforcement).
(5) 35 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).
(6) 34 CFR part 84 (Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).
(7) 34 CFR part 86 (Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention).
(8) 34 CFR part 97 (Protection of Human Subjects).
(9) 34 CFR part 98 (Student Rights in Research, Experimental Programs, and Testing.
(10) 34 CFR part 99 (Family Educational Rights and Privacy).
(b) The regulations in this part 373.
(c) The regulations in 48 CFR part 31 (Contracts Cost Principles and Procedures).
(d)(1) 2 CFR part 180 (Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485; and
(2) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards) as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 303(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c)) and 773(b)
§ 373.4
What definitions apply?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Act
means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.
(Authority: 29 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
)
Competitive integrated employment
is defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(9).
(Authority: Section 7(5) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(5))
Early intervention
means a service delivery or model demonstration program for adults with disabilities designed to begin the rehabilitation services as soon as possible after the onset or identification of actually or potentially disabling conditions. The populations served may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Individuals with chronic and progressive diseases that may become more disabling, such as multiple sclerosis, progressive visual disabilities, or HIV.
(2) Individuals in the acute stages of injury or illness, including, but not limited to, diabetes, traumatic brain injury, stroke, burns, or amputation.
(3) Individuals receiving an employer's short-term or long-term disability insurance benefits.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 303(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 773(b))
Employment outcome
is defined in 34 CFR 361.5.
(Authority: Section 7(11) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(11))
Individual with a disability
is defined as follows:
(1) For an individual who will receive rehabilitation services under this part, an individual with a disability means an individual—
(i) Who has a physical or mental impairment which, for that individual, constitutes or results in a substantial impediment to employment; and
(ii) Who can benefit in terms of an employment outcome from vocational rehabilitation services.
(2) For all other purposes of this part, an individual with a disability means an individual—
(i) Who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities;
(ii) Who has a record of such an impairment; or
(iii) Who is regarded as having such an impairment.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (2) of this definition, projects that carry out services or activities pertaining to Title V of the Act must also meet the requirements for “an individual with a disability” in section 7(20)(c) through (e) of the Act, as applicable.
(Authority: Section 7(20) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(20))
Individual with a significant disability
means an individual—
(1) Who has a severe physical or mental impairment that seriously limits one or more functional capacities (such as mobility, communication, self-care, self-direction, interpersonal skills, work tolerance, or work skills) in terms of an employment outcome;
(2) Whose vocational rehabilitation can be expected to require multiple vocational rehabilitation services over an extended period of time; and
(3) Who has one or more physical or mental disabilities resulting from amputation, arthritis, autism, blindness, burn injury, cancer, cerebral palsy, cystic fibrosis, deafness, head injury, heart disease, hemiplegia, hemophilia, intellectual disability, respiratory or pulmonary dysfunction, mental illness, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, musculo-skeletal disorders, neurological disorders (including stroke and epilepsy), paraplegia, quadriplegia and other spinal cord conditions, sickle-cell anemia, specific learning disabilities, end-stage renal disease, or another disability or combination of disabilities determined on the basis of an assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs to cause comparable substantial functional limitation.
Informed choice
means the provision of activities whereby individuals with disabilities served by projects under this part have the opportunity to be active, full partners in the rehabilitation process, making meaningful and informed choices as follows:
(1) During assessments of eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs.
(2) In the selection of employment outcomes, services needed to achieve the outcomes, entities providing these services, and the methods used to secure these services.
(Authority: Sections 2(c) and 12(c) of the Act 29 U.S.C. 701(c) and 709(c))
Rehabilitation services
means services, including vocational, medical, social, and psychological rehabilitation services and other services under the Rehabilitation Act, provided to individuals with disabilities in performing functions necessary in preparing for, securing, retaining, or regaining an employment or independent living outcome.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
Substantial impediment to employment
means that a physical or mental impairment (in light of attendant medical, psychological, vocational, educational, and other related factors) hinders an individual from preparing for, entering into, engaging in, or retaining employment consistent with the individual's abilities and capabilities.
(Authority: Section 7(20)(A) and 12(c) of the Act 29; U.S.C. 705(20)(A) and 709(c))
Supported employment
is defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(53).
(Authority: Section 7(38) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(38))
Vocational Rehabilitation Services
means services provided to an individual with a disability in preparing for, securing, retaining, or regaining an employment outcome that is consistent with the strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice of the individual. Vocational Rehabilitation Services for an individual with a disability may include—
(1) An assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs by qualified personnel, including, if appropriate, an assessment by personnel skilled in rehabilitation technology;
(2) Counseling and guidance, including information and support services to
assist an individual in exercising informed choice;
(3) Referral and other services to secure needed services from other agencies;
(4) Job-related services, including job search and placement assistance, job retention services, follow-up services, and follow-along services;
(5) Vocational and other training services, including the provision of personal and vocational adjustment services, books, tools, and other training materials;
(6) Diagnosis and treatment of physical and mental impairments;
(7) Maintenance for additional costs incurred while the individual is receiving services;
(8) Transportation;
(9) On-the-job or other related personal assistance services;
(10) Interpreter and reader services;
(11) Rehabilitation teaching services, and orientation and mobility services;
(12) Occupational licenses, tools, equipment, and initial stocks and supplies;
(13) Technical assistance and other consultation services to conduct market analysis, develop business plans, and otherwise provide resources to eligible individuals who are pursuing self-employment or telecommuting or establishing a small business operation as an employment outcome;
(14) Rehabilitation technology, including telecommunications, sensory, and other technological aids and devices;
(15) Transition services for individuals with disabilities that facilitate the achievement of employment outcomes;
(16) Supported employment services;
(17) Services to the family of an individual with a disability necessary to assist the individual to achieve an employment outcome;
(18) Post-employment services necessary to assist an individual with a disability to retain, regain, or advance in employment; and
(19) Expansion of employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities, which includes, but is not limited to—
(i) Self-employment, business ownership, and entrepreneurship;
(ii) Non-traditional jobs, professional employment, and work settings;
(iii) Collaborating with employers, Economic Development Councils, and others in creating new jobs and career advancement options in local job markets through the use of job restructuring and other methods; and
(iv) Other services as identified by the Secretary and published in the
Federal Register
.
(Authority: Section
7
(40) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(40))
Youth or Young adults with disabilities
means individuals with disabilities who are between the ages of 14 and 24 inclusive when entering the program.
(Authority: Section 7(42) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(42)
(Authority: Sections 7(40), 12(c), and 103(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(40), 709(c) and 723(a))
[81 FR 55607, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 31913, July 11, 2017]
§ 373.5
Who is eligible to receive services and to benefit from activities conducted by eligible entities?
(a)(1) For projects that provide rehabilitation services or activities to expand and improve the provision of rehabilitation services and other services authorized under Titles I, III, and VI of the Act, individuals are eligible who meet the definition in paragraph (a) of an “individual with a disability” as stated in § 373.4.
(2) For projects that provide independent living services or activities, individuals are eligible who meet the definition in paragraph (b) of an “individual with a disability” as stated in § 373.4.
(3) For projects that provide other services or activities that further the purposes of the Act, individuals are eligible who meet the definition in paragraph (b) of an “individual with a disability” as stated in § 373.4.
(b) By publishing a notice in the
Federal Register,
the Secretary may identify individuals determined to be eligible under one or more of the provisions in paragraph (a) of this section.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 103(a), and 303(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 723(a), and 773(b))
§ 373.6
What types of projects may be funded?
The Secretary may fund the following types of projects under this program:
(a) Special projects of service delivery.
(b) Model demonstration.
(c) Technical assistance.
(d) Systems change.
(e) Special studies, research, or evaluations.
(f) Dissemination and utilization.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 303(b)(4) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 773(b)(4))
§ 373.7
What are the priorities and other factors and requirements for competitions?
(a) In announcing competitions for grants and contracts, the Secretary gives priority consideration to—
(1) Initiatives focused on improving transition from education, including postsecondary education, to employment, particularly in competitive integrated employment, for youth who are individuals with significant disabilities.
(2) Supported employment, including community-based supported employment programs to meet the needs of individuals with the most significant disabilities or to provide technical assistance to States and community organizations to improve and expand the provision of supported employment services.
(3) Increasing competitive integrated employment for individuals with significant disabilities.
(b) In announcing competitions for grants and contracts, the Secretary may also identify one or more of the following as priorities—
(1) Expansion of employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities, as authorized in paragraph(s) of the definition of “vocational rehabilitation services” as stated in § 373.4.
(2) System change projects to promote meaningful access of individuals with disabilities to employment-related services under subtitle B of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and under other Federal laws.
(3) Innovative methods of promoting achievement of high-quality employment outcomes.
(4) The demonstration of the effectiveness of early intervention activities in improving employment outcomes.
(5) Projects to find alternative methods of providing affordable transportation services to individuals with disabilities.
(6) Technical assistance to designated State units and their personnel in working with employers to identify competitive integrated employment opportunities and career exploration opportunities in order to facilitate the provision of vocational rehabilitation services and transition services for youth with disabilities and students with disabilities.
(7) Consultation, training and technical assistance to businesses that have hired or are interested in hiring individuals with disabilities.
(8) Technical assistance and training to designated State units and their personnel on establishment and maintenance of education and experience requirements, to ensure that the personnel have a 21st century understanding of the evolving labor force and the needs of individuals with disabilities.
(9) Technical assistance to State vocational rehabilitation agencies or State vocational rehabilitation units to improve management practices that will improve the provision of vocational rehabilitation services and increase competitive employment outcomes for individuals with disabilities.
(10) Other projects that will expand and improve the provision, extent, availability, scope, and quality of rehabilitation and other services under the Act or that further the purpose and policy of the Act as stated in sections 2(b) and (c) of the Act.
(c) In announcing competitions of grants and contract the Secretary may limit the priorities listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section to address one or more of the following factors:
(1) Age ranges.
(2) Types of disabilities.
(3) Types of services.
(4) Models of service delivery.
(5) Stages of the vocational rehabilitation process;
(6) Unserved and underserved populations.
(7) Unserved and underserved geographical areas.
(8) Individuals with significant disabilities.
(9) Low-incidence disability populations.
(10) Individuals residing in federally designated Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities.
(d) The Secretary may require that an applicant certify that the project does not include building upon or expanding activities that have previously been conducted or funded, for that applicant or in that service area.
(e) The Secretary may require that the project widely disseminate the methods of vocational rehabilitation service delivery or model proven to be effective, so that they may be adapted, replicated, or purchased under fee-for-service arrangements by State vocational rehabilitation agencies and other disability organizations in the project's targeted service area or other locations.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a)(7)(B)(ii) and (11)(E), 103(b)(5), 108a, and 303(b)(5) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(7)(B)(ii) and (11)(E), 723(b)(5), 728a, and 773(b)(5))

# Subpart B—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
§ 373.10
What selection criteria does the Secretary use?
The Secretary publishes in the
Federal Register
or includes in the application package the selection criteria for each competition under this program. To evaluate the applications for new grants under this program, the Secretary may use the following:
(a) Selection criteria established under 34 CFR 75.209.
(b) Selection criteria in 34 CFR 75.210.
(c) Any combination of selection criteria from paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 103(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 723(a))
§ 373.11
What other factors does the Secretary consider when making a grant?
(a) The Secretary funds only those applications submitted in response to competitions announced in the
Federal Register
.
(b) The Secretary may consider the past performance of the applicant in carrying out activities under previously awarded grants.
(c) The Secretary awards bonus points if identified and published in the
Federal Register
for specific competitions.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 103(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 723(a))

# Subpart C—What Conditions Must Be Met By a Grantee?
§ 373.20
What are the matching requirements?
The Secretary may make grants to pay all or part of the cost of activities covered under this program. If the Secretary determines that the grantee is required to pay part of the costs, the amount of grantee participation is specified in the application notice, and the Secretary will not require grantee participation to be more than 10 percent of the total cost of the project.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 303(b)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 773(b)(1))
§ 373.21
What are the reporting requirements under this part?
(a) In addition to the program and fiscal reporting requirements in 34 CFR 75.720 and 2 CFR 200.327 that are applicable to projects funded under this program, the Secretary may require that recipients of grants under this part submit information determined by the Secretary to be necessary to measure project outcomes and performance, including any data needed to comply with the Government Performance and Results Act.
(b) Specific reporting requirements for competitions will be identified by
the Secretary and published in the
Federal Register
.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 303(b)(2)(B), and 306 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 773(b)(2)(B), and 776)
§ 373.22
What are the limitations on indirect costs?
(a) Indirect cost reimbursement for grants under this program is limited to the recipient's actual indirect costs, as determined by its negotiated indirect cost rate agreement, or 10 percent of the total direct cost base, whichever amount is less.
(b) Indirect costs in excess of the 10 percent limit may be used to satisfy matching or cost-sharing requirements.
(c) The 10 percent limit does not apply to federally recognized Indian tribal governments and their tribal representatives.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 373.23
What additional requirements must be met?
(a) Each grantee must do the following:
(1) Ensure equal access and treatment for eligible project participants who are members of groups that have traditionally been underrepresented based on race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disabilities.
(2) Encourage applications for employment from persons who are members of groups that have traditionally been underrepresented based on race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disabilities.
(3) Advise individuals with disabilities who are applicants for or recipients of the services, or the applicants' representatives or the individuals' representatives, of the availability and purposes of the Client Assistance Program, including information on means of seeking assistance under that program.
(4) Provide, through a careful appraisal and study, an assessment and evaluation of the project that indicates the significance or worth of processes, methodologies, and practices implemented by the project.
(b) A grantee may not make a subgrant under this part. However, a grantee may contract for supplies, equipment, and other services, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards) as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 303(b)(2)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 773(b)(2)(B))
§ 373.24
What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
(a) All personal information about individuals served by any project under this part, including lists of names, addresses, photographs, and records of evaluation, must be confidential.
(b) The use of information and records concerning individuals must be limited only to purposes directly connected with the project, including project reporting and evaluation activities. This information may not be disclosed, directly or indirectly, other than in the administration of the project unless the consent of the agency providing the information and the individual to whom the information applies, or his or her representative, has been obtained in writing. The Secretary or other Federal officials responsible for enforcing legal requirements have access to this information without written consent being obtained. The final products of the project may not reveal any personal identifying information without written consent of the individual or his or her representative.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 303(b)(2)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), and 773(b)(2)(B))
PARTS 376-377 [RESERVED]
PARTS 379-380 [RESERVED]
Pt. 381

# PART 381—PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
381.1
What is the Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights program?
381.2
Who is eligible for an award?
381.3
What activities may the Secretary fund?
381.4
What regulations apply?
381.5
What definitions apply?

# Subpart B—How Does One Apply for an Award?
381.10
What are the application requirements?

# Subpart C—How Does the Secretary Make an Award?
381.20
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?
381.22
How does the Secretary allocate funds under this program?

# Subpart D—What Conditions Must Be Met After an Award?
381.30
How are services to be administered?
381.31
What are the requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
381.32
What are the reporting requirements under this part?
381.33
What are the requirements related to the use of funds provided under this part?

# Authority:
Section 509 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 794e, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55611, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 381.1
What is the Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights program?
This program is designed to support a system in each State to protect the legal and human rights of eligible individuals with disabilities.
(Authority: Section 509(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 794e(a))
§ 381.2
Who is eligible for an award?
(a)(1) A protection and advocacy system that is established under part C of title I of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 (DD Act), 42 U.S.C. 15041
et seq.,
and that meets the requirements of § 381.10 is eligible to apply for a grant award under this part.
(2)(i) For any fiscal year in which the appropriation to carry out the activities of this part equals or exceeds $10,500,000, the eligible system serving the American Indian Consortium is eligible to apply for a grant award under this part.
(ii) For purposes of this part, an eligible system is defined at § 381.5(c).
(iii) For purposes of this part, the American Indian Consortium means a consortium established as described in section 102 of the DD Act (42 U.S.C. 15002).
(b) In any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated to carry out this part is less than $5,500,000, a protection and advocacy system from any State or from Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, may apply for a grant under the Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights (PAIR) program to plan for, develop outreach strategies for, and carry out a protection and advocacy program authorized under this part.
(c) In any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated to carry out this part is equal to or greater than $5,500,000, an eligible system from any State and from any of the jurisdictions named in paragraph (b) of this section may apply to receive the amount allotted pursuant to section 509(c)-(e) of the Act.
(Authority: Section 509(b), (c), and (m) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 794e(b), (c), and (m))
§ 381.3
What activities may the Secretary fund?
(a) Funds made available under this part must be used for the following activities:
(1) Establishing a system to protect, and advocate for, the rights of individuals with disabilities.
(2) Pursuing legal, administrative, and other appropriate remedies or approaches to ensure the protection of, and advocacy for, the rights of eligible individuals with disabilities within the
State or the American Indian Consortium.
(3) Providing information on and making referrals to programs and services addressing the needs of individuals with disabilities in the State or American Indian Consortium, including individuals with disabilities who are exiting from school programs.
(4) Coordinating the protection and advocacy program provided through an eligible system with the advocacy programs under—
(i) Section 112 of the Act (the Client Assistance Program (CAP));
(ii) The Older Americans Act of 1965 (the State long-term care ombudsman program) (42 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
);
(iii) Part C of the DD Act; and
(iv) The Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act of 2000 (PAIMI) (42 U.S.C. 10801-10807).
(5) Developing a statement of objectives and priorities on an annual basis and a plan for achieving these objectives and priorities.
(6) Providing to the public, including individuals with disabilities and, as appropriate, their representatives, an opportunity to comment on the objectives and priorities described in § 381.10(a)(6).
(7) Establishing a grievance procedure for clients or prospective clients of the eligible system to ensure that individuals with disabilities are afforded equal access to the services of the eligible system.
(b) Funds made available under this part also may be used to carry out any other activities consistent with the purpose of this part and the activities listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 509(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794e(f)).
§ 381.4
What regulations apply?
The following regulations apply to the PAIR program:
(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:
(1) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs) for purposes of an award made under
§
§ 381.20 or 381.22(a)(1).
(2) 34 CFR part 76 (State-Administered Programs), if the appropriation for the PAIR program is equal to or greater than $5,500,000 and the eligible system is a State or local government agency, except for—
(i) Section 76.103;
(ii) Sections 76.125 through 76.137;
(iii) Sections 76.300 through 76.401;
(iv) Section 76.704;
(v) Section 76.734; and
(vi) Section 76.740.
(3) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations).
(4) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).
(5) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act—Enforcement).
(6) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).
(b) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485.
(c) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
(d) The regulations in this part 381.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 509 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794e)
§ 381.5
What definitions apply?
(a) Definitions in EDGAR at 34 CFR part 77.
(b) Definitions in 2 CFR part 200 subpart A.
(c)
Other definitions.
The following definitions also apply to this part:
Act
means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.
Advocacy
means pleading an individual's cause or speaking or writing in support of an individual. Advocacy may be formal, as in the case of a lawyer representing an individual in a court of law or in formal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal). Advocacy also may be informal, as in the case of a lawyer or non-lawyer representing an individual in negotiations, mediation, or informal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal), or as in the case of a lawyer or non-lawyer representing an individual's cause before private entities or organizations, or government agencies (whether tribal,
State, local, or Federal). Advocacy may be on behalf of—
(i) A single individual, in which case it is individual advocacy;
(ii) More than one individual or a group or class of individuals, in which case it is systems (or systemic) advocacy; or
(iii) Oneself, in which case it is self advocacy.
Eligible individual with a disability
means an individual who—
(i) Needs protection and advocacy services that are beyond the scope of services authorized to be provided by the CAP under section 112 of the Act; and
(ii) Is ineligible for—
(A) Protection and advocacy programs under part C of the DD Act; and
(B) Protection and advocacy programs under the PAIMI.
Eligible system
means a protection and advocacy system that is established under part C of the DD Act and that meets the requirements of § 381.10.
Mediation
means the act or process of using an independent third party to act as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator to settle differences or disputes between persons or parties. The third party who acts as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator must not be any entity or individual who is connected in any way with the eligible system or the agency, entity, or individual with whom the individual with a disability has a dispute. Mediation may involve the use of professional mediators or any other independent third party mutually agreed to by the parties to the dispute.
State
means, in addition to each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, except for purposes of sections 509(c)(3)(B) and (c)(4) of the Act, in which case State does not mean or include Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(Authority: Sections 7(34), 12(c), and 509 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(34), 709(c) and 794e)

# Subpart B—How Does One Apply for an Award?
§ 381.10
What are the application requirements?
(a) Regardless of the amount of funds appropriated for the PAIR program in a fiscal year, an eligible system shall submit to the Secretary an application for assistance under this part at the time and in the form and manner determined by the Secretary that contains all information that the Secretary determines necessary, including assurances that the eligible system will—
(1) Have in effect a system to protect, and advocate for, the rights of eligible individuals with disabilities;
(2) Have the same general authorities, including the authority to access records and program income, as in part C of title I of the DD Act;
(3) Have the authority to pursue legal, administrative, and other appropriate remedies or approaches to ensure the protection of, and advocacy for, the rights of eligible individuals with disabilities within the State and the American Indian Consortium;
(4) Provide information on and make referrals to programs and services addressing the needs of individuals with disabilities in the State and the American Indian Consortium, including individuals with disabilities who are exiting from school programs;
(5) Develop a statement of objectives and priorities on an annual basis and a plan for achieving these objectives and priorities;
(6) Provide to the public, including individuals with disabilities and, as appropriate, their representatives, an opportunity to comment on the objectives and priorities established by, and activities of, the eligible system including—
(i) The objectives and priorities for the activities of the eligible system for each year and the rationale for the establishment of those objectives and priorities; and
(ii) The coordination of the PAIR program provided through eligible systems with the advocacy programs under—
(A) Section 112 of the Act (CAP);
(B) The Older Americans Act of 1965 (the State long-term care ombudsman program);
(C) Part C of the DD Act; and
(D) The PAIMI;
(7) Establish a grievance procedure for clients or prospective clients of the eligible system to ensure that individuals with disabilities are afforded equal access to the services of the eligible system;
(8) Use funds made available under this part to supplement and not supplant the non-Federal funds that would otherwise be made available for the purpose for which Federal funds are provided; and
(9) Implement procedures designed to ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, mediation (and other alternative dispute resolution) procedures, which include good faith negotiation, are used before resorting to formal administrative or legal remedies.
(b) To receive direct payment of funds under this part, an eligible system must provide to the Secretary, as part of its application for assistance, an assurance that direct payment is not prohibited by or inconsistent with tribal or State law, regulation, or policy.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0018)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 509(f) and (g)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794e(f) and (g)(1))

# Subpart C—How Does the Secretary Make an Award?
§ 381.20
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?
In any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for the PAIR program is less than $5,500,000, the Secretary evaluates applications under the procedures in 34 CFR part 75.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 509(b) and (f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794e(b) and (f))
§ 381.22
How does the Secretary allocate funds under this program?
(a) In any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for this program is equal to or greater than $5,500,000—
(1) The Secretary sets aside not less than 1.8 percent but not more than 2.2 percent of the amount appropriated to provide a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement for training and technical assistance to eligible systems carrying out activities under this part.
(2) After the reservation required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary makes allotments from the remainder of the amount appropriated in accordance with section 509(c)(2)-(d) of the Act.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for this program is equal to or greater than $5,500,000, the Secretary pays directly to an eligible system that submits an application that meets the requirements of § 381.10 the amount of the allotment to the State pursuant to section 509 of the Act, unless the State provides otherwise.
(c) For any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated to carry out this program equals or exceeds $10,500,000, the Secretary shall reserve a portion, and use the portion to make a grant for the eligible system serving the American Indian Consortium. The Secretary shall make the grant in an amount of not less than $50,000 for the fiscal year.
(d) Reallotment:
(1) For any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated to carry out this program equals or exceeds $5,500,000 and if the Secretary determines that any amount of an allotment to an eligible system within a State will not be expended by such system in carrying out the provisions of this part, the Secretary shall make such amount available to one or more of the eligible systems that the Secretary determines will be able to use additional amounts during such year for carrying out this part.
(2) Any reallotment amount made available to an eligible system for any fiscal year shall, for the purposes of this section, be regarded as an increase in the eligible system's allotment under this part for that fiscal year.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 509(c)-(e) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794e(c)-(e))

# Subpart D—What Conditions Must Be Met After an Award?
§ 381.30
How are services to be administered?
(a) Each eligible system shall carry out the protection and advocacy program authorized under this part.
(b) An eligible system may not award a grant or make a subaward to another entity to carry out, in whole or in part, the protection and advocacy program authorized under this part.
(c) An eligible system may contract with another agency, entity, or individual to carry out the PAIR program in whole or in part, but only if the agency, entity, or individual with whom the eligible system has contracted—
(1) Does not provide services under the Act or does not provide treatment, services, or habilitation to persons with disabilities; and
(2) Is independent of, and not connected financially or through a board of directors to, an entity or individual that provides services under the Act or that provides treatment, services, or habilitation to persons with disabilities.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, “services under the Act” and “treatment, services, or habilitation” does not include client assistance services under CAP, protection and advocacy services authorized under the protection and advocacy programs under part C of the DD Act and the PAIMI, or any other protection and advocacy services.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 381.31
What are the requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
(a) All personal information about individuals served by any eligible system under this part, including lists of names, addresses, photographs, and records of evaluation, must be held confidential.
(b) The eligible system's use of information and records concerning individuals must be limited only to purposes directly connected with the protection and advocacy program, including program evaluation activities. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an eligible system may not disclose personal information about an individual, directly or indirectly, other than in the administration of the protection and advocacy program, unless the consent of the individual to whom the information applies, or his or her guardian, parent, or other authorized representative or advocate (including the individual's advocate from the eligible system), has been obtained in writing. An eligible system may not produce any report, evaluation, or study that reveals any personally identifying information without the written consent of the individual or his or her representative.
(c) Except as limited in paragraph (d) of this section, the Secretary or other Federal or State officials responsible for enforcing legal requirements must be given complete access to all—
(1) Records of the eligible system receiving funds under this program; and
(2) All individual case records of clients served under this part without the consent of the client.
(d)(1) The privilege of a person or eligible system not to produce documents or provide information pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section is governed by the principles of common law as interpreted by the courts of the United States, except that, for purposes of any periodic audit, report, or evaluation of the performance of the eligible system established or assisted under this part, the Secretary does not require the eligible system to disclose the identity of, or any other personally identifiable information related to, any individual requesting assistance under the PAIR program.
(2) However, notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, if an audit, monitoring review, State plan assurance review, evaluation, or other investigation has already produced independent and reliable evidence that there is probable cause to believe that the eligible system has violated its legislative mandate or misused Federal funds, the eligible system shall disclose, if the Secretary so requests, the identity of, or any other personally
identifiable information (
i.e.,
name, address, telephone number, social security number, or other official code or number by which an individual may be readily identified) related to, any individual requesting assistance under the PAIR program, in accordance with the principles of common law as interpreted by the courts of the United States.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 509(h) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794e(h))
§ 381.32
What are the reporting requirements under this part?
Each eligible system shall provide to the Secretary, no later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, an annual report that includes information on the following:
(a) The types of services and activities undertaken by the eligible system and how these services and activities addressed the objectives and priorities developed pursuant to § 381.10(a)(6).
(b) The total number of individuals, by race, color, national origin, gender, age, and disabling condition, who requested services from the eligible system and the total number of individuals, by race, color, national origin, gender, age, and disabling condition, who were served by the eligible system.
(c) The types of disabilities represented by individuals served by the eligible system.
(d) The types of issues being addressed on behalf of individuals served by the eligible system.
(e) Any other information that the Secretary may require.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0018)
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 13, and 509(k) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 710, and 794e(k))
§ 381.33
What are the requirements related to the use of funds provided under this part?
(a) Funds made available under this part must be used to supplement and not supplant the non-Federal funds that would otherwise be made available for the purpose for which Federal funds are provided under this part.
(b) In any State in which an eligible system is located within a State agency, that State or State agency may not use more than five percent of any allotment for the costs of administration of the eligible system supported under this part. For purposes of this paragraph, “costs of administration” include, but are not limited to, administrative salaries (including salaries for clerical and support staff), supplies, depreciation, the cost of operating and maintaining facilities, equipment, and grounds (
e.g.,
rental of office space or equipment, telephone, postage, maintenance agreements), and other similar types of costs that may be incurred by the State or State agency to administer the eligible system.
(c) Funds paid to an eligible system within a State for a fiscal year, including reallotment funds, to carry out this program that are not expended or obligated prior to the end of that fiscal year remain available to the eligible system within a State for obligation during the succeeding fiscal year in accordance with sections 19 and 509(g) of the Act.
(d) For determining when an eligible system makes an obligation for various kinds of property or services, 34 CFR 75.707 and 76.707, as appropriate, apply to this program. If the appropriation for the PAIR program is less than $5,500,000, § 75.707 applies. If the appropriation for the PAIR program is equal to or greater than $5,500,000, § 76.707 applies. An eligible system is considered a State for purposes of § 76.707.
(e) Program income:
(1) Consistent with 2 CFR 200.80 and for purposes of this part,
program income
means gross income earned by the designated agency that is directly generated by an activity supported under this part.
(2)(i) The designated agency must use program income to supplement Federal funds that support program activities that are subject to this part. See, for example 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2).
(ii) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.305(a) and consistent with 2 CFR 200.305(b)(5), and to the extent that program income funds are available, all designated agencies, regardless of whether they are a State agency, must disburse those funds (including repayments to a revolving fund), rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and
interest earned on such funds before requesting additional funds from the Department.
(3) Any program income received during a fiscal year that is not obligated or expended prior to the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year in which the program income was received, remain available for obligation and expenditure by the grantee during that succeeding fiscal year.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 19, and 509(f)(7), (g), and (i) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 716, and 794e(f)(7), (g), and (i); and 20 U.S.C. 3474)
Pt. 385

# PART 385—REHABILITATION TRAINING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
385.1
What is the Rehabilitation Training program?
385.2
Who is eligible for assistance under these programs?
385.3
What regulations apply to these programs?
385.4
What definitions apply to these programs?
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—How Does One Apply for a Grant?
385.20
What are the application procedures for these programs?

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
385.30
[Reserved]
385.31
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?
385.33
What other factors does the Secretary consider in reviewing an application?

# Subpart E—What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
385.40
What are the requirements pertaining to the membership of a project advisory committee?
385.41
What are the requirements affecting the collection of data from designated State agencies?
385.42
What are the requirements affecting the dissemination of training materials?
385.43
What requirements apply to the training of rehabilitation counselors and other rehabilitation personnel?
385.44
What requirement applies to the training of individuals with disabilities?
385.45
What additional application requirements apply to the training of individuals for rehabilitation careers?
385.46
What limitations apply to the rate of pay for experts or consultants appointed or serving under contract under the Rehabilitation Training program?

# Authority:
Sections 12(c), 301, and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 771, and 772; Pub. L. 111-256, 124 Stat. 2643; unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55614, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 385.1
What is the Rehabilitation Training program?
(a)
Purpose.
The Rehabilitation Training program is designed to—
(1) Ensure that skilled personnel are available to provide rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities through vocational, medical, social, and psychological rehabilitation programs (including supported employment programs), through economic and business development programs, through independent living services programs, and through client assistance programs;
(2) Maintain and upgrade basic skills and knowledge of personnel employed, including personnel specifically trained to deliver rehabilitation services, including supported employment services and customized employment services, to individuals with the most significant disabilities, and personnel specifically trained to deliver services to individuals with disabilities whose employment outcome is self-employment, business ownership, or telecommuting, to provide state-of-the-art service delivery and rehabilitation technology services; and
(3) Provide training and information to individuals with disabilities, the parents, families, guardians, advocates, and authorized representatives of the individuals, and other appropriate parties to develop the skills necessary for individuals with disabilities to access the rehabilitation system and to become active decision makers in the vocational rehabilitation process.
(b) The Secretary awards grants and contracts on a competitive basis to pay
part of the costs of projects for training, traineeships or scholarships, and related activities, including the provision of technical assistance, to assist in increasing the numbers of qualified personnel trained in providing vocational rehabilitation services and other services provided under the Act, to individuals with disabilities. Financial assistance is provided through multiple training programs, including:
(1) Rehabilitation Long-Term Training (34 CFR part 386).
(2) Innovative Rehabilitation Training (34 CFR part 387).
(3) Rehabilitation Short-Term Training (34 CFR part 390).
(4) Training of Interpreters for Individuals Who Are Deaf and Hard of Hearing and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind (34 CFR part 396).
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 301 and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 771 and 772)
§ 385.2
Who is eligible for assistance under these programs?
States and public or private nonprofit agencies and organizations, including Indian tribes and institutions of higher education, are eligible for assistance under the Rehabilitation Training program.
(Authority: Sections 7(19), 301, and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(19), 771 and 772)
§ 385.3
What regulations apply to these programs?
The following regulations apply to the Rehabilitation Training program:
(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:
(1) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs).
(2) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions That Apply to Department Regulations).
(3) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).
(4) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act—Enforcement).
(5) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).
(6) 34 CFR part 84 (Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).
(7) 34 CFR part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses).
(8) 34 CFR part 97 (Protection of Human Subjects).
(9) 34 CFR part 98 (Student Rights in Research, Experimental Programs, and Testing.
(10) 34 CFR part 99 (Family Educational Rights and Privacy).
(b) The regulations in this part 385.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)(1) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485; and
(2) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards) as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 772)
§ 385.4
What definitions apply to these programs?
(a) The following definitions in 34 CFR part 77 apply to the programs under the Rehabilitation Training Program—
Applicant
Application
Award
Budget Period
Department
EDGAR
Grantee
Nonprofit
Private
Project
Project Period
Public
Secretary
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
(b) The following definitions also apply to programs under the Rehabilitation Training program:
Act
means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
).
Assistive technology
means technology designed to be utilized in an assistive technology device or assistive technology service.
Assistive technology device
means any item, piece of equipment, or product
system, whether acquired commercially off the shelf, modified, or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities.
Assistive technology service
means any service that directly assists an individual with a disability in the selection, acquisition, or use of an assistive technology device. The term includes—
(i) The evaluation of the needs of an individual with a disability, including a functional evaluation of the individual in the individual's customary environment;
(ii) Purchasing, leasing, or otherwise providing for the acquisition of assistive technology devices by individuals with disabilities;
(iii) Selecting, designing, fitting, customizing, adapting, applying, maintaining, repairing, or replacing of assistive technology devices;
(iv) Coordinating and using other therapies, interventions, or services with assistive technology devices, such as those associated with existing education and rehabilitation plans and programs;
(v) Training or technical assistance for an individual with disabilities, or, if appropriate, the family of an individual with disabilities;
(vi) Training or technical assistance for professionals (including individuals providing education and rehabilitation services), employers, or other individuals who provide services to, employ, or are otherwise substantially involved in the major life functions of individuals with disabilities; and
(vii) A service consisting of expanding the availability of access to technology, including electronic and information technology, to individuals with disabilities.
Community rehabilitation program
means a program that provides directly or facilitates the provision of vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities, and that provides, singly or in combination, for an individual with a disability to enable the individual to maximize opportunities for employment, including career advancement—
(i) Medical, psychiatric, psychological, social, and vocational services that are provided under one management;
(ii) Testing, fitting, or training in the use of prosthetic and orthotic devices;
(iii) Recreational therapy;
(iv) Physical and occupational therapy;
(v) Speech, language, and hearing therapy;
(vi) Psychiatric, psychological, and social services, including positive behavior management;
(vii) Assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs;
(viii) Rehabilitation technology;
(ix) Job development, placement, and retention services;
(x) Evaluation or control of specific disabilities;
(xi) Orientation and mobility services for individuals who are blind;
(xii) Extended employment;
(xiii) Psychosocial rehabilitation services;
(xiv) Supported employment services and extended services;
(xv) Services to family members when necessary to the vocational rehabilitation of the individual;
(xvi) Personal assistance services; or
(xvii) Services similar to the services described in paragraphs (i) through (xvi) of this definition.
Designated State agency
means an agency designated under section 7(8) and 101(a)(2)(A) of the Act.
Designated State unit
means
(i) Any State agency unit required under section 7(8) and 101(a)(2)(B) of the Act, or
(ii) In cases in which no State agency unit is required, the State agency described in section 101(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act.
Independent living core services
means—
(i) Information and referral services;
(ii) Independent living skills training;
(iii) Peer counseling, including cross-disability peer counseling; and
(iv) Individual and systems advocacy.
Independent living services
includes—
(i) Independent living core services; and
(ii)(A) Counseling services, including psychological, psychotherapeutic, and related services;
(B) Services related to securing housing or shelter, including services related to community group living, and supportive of the purposes of this Act and of the titles of this Act, and adaptive housing services (including appropriate accommodations to and modifications of any space used to serve, or occupied by, individuals with disabilities);
(C) Rehabilitation technology;
(D) Mobility training;
(E) Services and training for individuals with cognitive and sensory disabilities, including life skills training, and interpreter and reader services;
(F) Personal assistance services, including attendant care and the training of personnel providing these services;
(G) Surveys, directories, and other activities to identify appropriate housing, recreation opportunities, and accessible transportation, and other support services;
(H) Consumer information programs on rehabilitation and independent living services available under this Act, especially for minorities and other individuals with disabilities who have traditionally been unserved or underserved by programs under this Act;
(I) Education and training necessary for living in the community and participating in community activities;
(J) Supported living;
(K) Transportation, including referral and assistance for transportation;
(L) Physical rehabilitation;
(M) Therapeutic treatment;
(N) Provision of needed prostheses and other appliances and devices;
(O) Individual and group social and recreational services;
(P) Training to develop skills specifically designed for youths who are individuals with disabilities to promote self-awareness and esteem, develop advocacy and self-empowerment skills, and explore career options;
(Q) Services for children;
(R) Services under other Federal, State, or local programs designed to provide resources, training, counseling, or other assistance of substantial benefit in enhancing the independence, productivity, and quality of life of individuals with disabilities;
(S) Appropriate preventive services to decrease the need of individuals assisted under this Act for similar services in the future;
(T) Community awareness programs to enhance the understanding and integration of individuals with disabilities; and
(U) Such other services as may be necessary and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
Individual with a disability
means any individual who—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment, which for that individual constitutes or results in a substantial impediment to employment;
(ii) Can benefit in terms of an employment outcome from vocational rehabilitation services provided pursuant to title I, III, or VI of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; and
(iii) Has a disability as defined in section 7(20)(B) of the Act.
Individual with a significant disability
means an individual with a disability—
(i) Who has a severe physical or mental impairment that seriously limits one or more functional capacities (such as mobility, communication, self-care, self-direction, interpersonal skills, work tolerance, or work skills) in terms of an employment outcome;
(ii) Whose vocational rehabilitation can be expected to require multiple vocational rehabilitation services over an extended period of time; and
(iii) Who has one or more physical or mental disabilities resulting from amputation, arthritis, autism, blindness, burn injury, cancer, cerebral palsy, cystic fibrosis, deafness, head injury, heart disease, hemiplegia, hemophilia, intellectual disability, respiratory or pulmonary dysfunction, mental illness, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, musculo-skeletal disorders, neurological disorders (including stroke and epilepsy), paraplegia, quadriplegia and other spinal cord conditions, sickle-cell anemia, specific learning disabilities, end-stage renal disease, or another disability or combination of disabilities determined on the basis of an assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs.
Institution of higher education
has the meaning given the term in section
101(a) of the Higher Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
Personal assistance services
means a range of services provided by one or more persons designed to assist an individual with a disability to perform daily living activities on or off the job that the individual would typically perform if the individual did not have a disability. The services shall be designed to increase the individual's control in life and ability to perform everyday activities on or off the job.
Qualified personnel.
(i) For designated State agencies or designated State units, means personnel who have met standards that are consistent with existing national or State approved or recognized certification, licensing, registration, or other comparable requirements that apply to the area in which such personnel are providing vocational rehabilitation services.
(ii) For other than designated State agencies or designated State units, means personnel who have met existing State certification or licensure requirements, or, in the absence of State requirements, have met professionally accepted requirements established by national certification boards.
Rehabilitation services
means services, including vocational, medical, social, and psychological rehabilitation services and other services under the Rehabilitation Act, provided to individuals with disabilities in performing functions necessary in preparing for, securing, retaining, or regaining an employment or independent living outcome.
Rehabilitation technology
means the systematic application of technologies, engineering methodologies, or scientific principles to meet the needs of and address the barriers confronted by individuals with disabilities in areas that include education, rehabilitation, employment, transportation, independent living, and recreation. The term includes rehabilitation engineering, assistive technology devices, and assistive technology services.
State
includes, in addition to each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Stipend
means financial assistance on behalf of individuals in support of their training, as opposed to salary payment for services provided within the project.
Supported employment
means competitive integrated employment, including customized employment, or employment in an integrated work setting in which individuals are working on a short-term basis toward competitive integrated employment, that is individualized and customized consistent with the strengths, abilities, interests, and informed choice of the individuals involved, for individuals with the most severe disabilities—
(i)(A) For whom competitive integrated employment has not traditionally occurred; or
(B) For whom competitive employment has been interrupted or intermittent as a result of a severe disability; and
(ii) Who, because of the nature and severity of their disability, need intensive supported employment services from the designated State unit and extended services after transition in order to perform the work involved.
Supported employment services
means ongoing support services, including customized employment, and other appropriate services needed to support and maintain an individual with most severe disability in supported employment, that are—
(i) Provided singly or in combination and are organized and made available in such a way as to assist an eligible individual in entering or maintaining integrated, competitive employment;
(ii) Based on a determination of the needs of an eligible individual, as specified in an individualized written rehabilitation program; and
(iii) Provided by the designated State unit for a period of time not more than 24 months, unless under special circumstances the eligible individual and the rehabilitation counselor or coordinator jointly agree to extend the time in order to achieve the rehabilitation objectives identified in the individualized plan for employment.
Vocational rehabilitation services
means services provided to an individual with a disability in preparing for, securing, retaining, or regaining an
employment outcome that is consistent with the strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice of the individual, and services provided for the benefit of groups of individuals with disabilities. Vocational Rehabilitation Services for an individual with a disability may include—
(i) An assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs by qualified personnel, including, if appropriate, an assessment by personnel skilled in rehabilitation technology;
(ii) Counseling and guidance, including information and support services to assist an individual in exercising informed choice;
(iii) Referral and other services to secure needed services from other agencies;
(iv) Job-related services, including job search and placement assistance, job retention services, follow-up services, and follow-along services;
(v) Vocational and other training services, including the provision of personal and vocational adjustment services, books, tools, and other training materials;
(vi) Diagnosis and treatment of physical and mental impairments;
(vii) Maintenance for additional costs incurred while the individual is receiving services;
(viii) Transportation;
(ix) On-the-job or other related personal assistance services;
(x) Interpreter and reader services;
(xi) Rehabilitation teaching services, and orientation and mobility services;
(xii) Occupational licenses, tools, equipment, and initial stocks and supplies;
(xiii) Technical assistance and other consultation services to conduct market analysis, develop business plans, and otherwise provide resources to eligible individuals who are pursuing self-employment or telecommuting or establishing a small business operation as an employment outcome;
(xiv) Rehabilitation technology, including telecommunications, sensory, and other technological aids and devices;
(xv) Transition services for individuals with disabilities that facilitate the achievement of employment outcomes;
(xvi) Supported employment services;
(xvii) Services to the family of an individual with a disability necessary to assist the individual to achieve an employment outcome;
(xviii) Post-employment services necessary to assist an individual with a disability to retain, regain, or advance in employment; and
(xix) Expansion of employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities, which includes, but is not limited to—
(A) Self-employment, business ownership, and entrepreneurship;
(B) Non-traditional jobs, professional employment, and work settings;
(C) Collaborating with employers, Economic Development Councils, and others in creating new jobs and career advancement options in local job markets through the use of job restructuring and other methods; and
(D) Other services as identified by the Secretary and published in the
Federal Register
.
[81 FR 55614, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 31913, July 11, 2017]
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—How Does One Apply for a Grant?
§ 385.20
What are the application procedures for these programs?
The Secretary gives the designated State agency an opportunity to review and comment on applications submitted from within the State that it serves. The procedures to be followed by the applicant and the State are in 34 CFR 75.155 through 75.159.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
§ 385.30
[Reserved]
§ 385.31
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?
(a) The Secretary evaluates applications under the procedures in 34 CFR part 75.
(b) The Secretary evaluates each application using selection criteria identified in parts 386, 387, and 390, as appropriate.
(c) In addition to the selection criteria described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary evaluates each application using—
(1) Selection criteria in 34 CFR 75.210;
(2) Selection criteria established under 34 CFR 75.209; or
(3) A combination of selection criteria established under 34 CFR 75.209 and selection criteria in 34 CFR 75.210.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 385.33
What other factors does the Secretary consider in reviewing an application?
In addition to the selection criteria listed in § 75.210 and parts 386, 387, and 390, the Secretary, in making awards under this program, considers such factors as—
(a) The geographical distribution of projects in each Rehabilitation Training Program category throughout the country; and
(b) The past performance of the applicant in carrying out similar training activities under previously awarded grants, as indicated by such factors as compliance with grant conditions, soundness of programmatic and financial management practices and attainment of established project objectives.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(b))

# Subpart E—What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
§ 385.40
What are the requirements pertaining to the membership of a project advisory committee?
If a project establishes an advisory committee, its membership must include individuals with disabilities or parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or other authorized representatives of the individuals; members of minority groups; trainees; and providers of vocational rehabilitation and independent living rehabilitation services.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 385.41
What are the requirements affecting the collection of data from designated State agencies?
If the collection of data is necessary from individuals with disabilities being served by two or more designated State agencies or from employees of two or more of these agencies, the project director must submit requests for the data to appropriate representatives of the affected agencies, as determined by the Secretary. This requirement also applies to employed project staff and individuals enrolled in courses of study supported under these programs.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 385.42
What are the requirements affecting the dissemination of training materials?
A set of any training materials developed under the Rehabilitation Training Program must be submitted to any information clearinghouse designated by the Secretary.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 385.43
What requirements apply to the training of rehabilitation counselors and other rehabilitation personnel?
Any grantee who provides training of rehabilitation counselors or other rehabilitation personnel must train those counselors and personnel on the services provided under this Act, and, in
particular, services provided in accordance with amendments made to the Rehabilitation Act by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014. The grantee must also furnish training to these counselors and personnel regarding applications of rehabilitation technology in vocational rehabilitation services, the applicability of section 504 of this Act, title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the provisions of titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act that are related to work incentives for individuals with disabilities.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 101(a), and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a) and 772)
§ 385.44
What requirement applies to the training of individuals with disabilities?
Any grantee or contractor who provides training shall give due regard to the training of individuals with disabilities as part of its effort to increase the number of qualified personnel available to provide rehabilitation services.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c)
§ 385.45
What additional application requirements apply to the training of individuals for rehabilitation careers?
(a) All applicants for a grant or contract to provide training shall demonstrate how the training they plan to provide will prepare rehabilitation professionals to address the needs of individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds.
(b) All applicants for a grant shall include a detailed description of strategies that will be utilized to recruit and train persons so as to reflect the diverse populations of the United States, as part of the effort to increase the number of individuals with disabilities, individuals who are members of minority groups, who are available to provide rehabilitation services.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0018)
(Authority: Sections 21(a) and (b) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 718(a) and (b) and 772)
§ 385.46
What limitations apply to the rate of pay for experts or consultants appointed or serving under contract under the Rehabilitation Training program?
An expert or consultant appointed or serving under contract pursuant to this section shall be compensated at a rate subject to approval of the Commissioner which shall not exceed the daily equivalent of the rate of pay for level 4 of the Senior Executive Service Schedule under section 5382 of title 5, United States Code. Such an expert or consultant may be allowed travel and transportation expenses in accordance with section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
(Authority: Section 302(b)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 772(b)(3))
Pt. 386

# PART 386—REHABILITATION TRAINING: REHABILITATION LONG-TERM TRAINING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
386.1
What is the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program?
386.2
Who is eligible for an award?
386.3
What regulations apply?
386.4
What definitions apply?
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—How Does the Secretary Make an Award?
386.20
What additional selection criteria are used under this program?
386.21
What are the application procedures for these programs?

# Subpart D—What Conditions Must Be Met After an Award?
386.30
What are the matching requirements?
386.31
What are the requirements for directing grant funds?
386.32
What are allowable costs?
386.33
What are the requirements for grantees in disbursing scholarships?
386.34
What assurances must be provided by a grantee that intends to provide scholarships?
386.35
What information must be provided by a grantee that is an institution of higher education to assist designated State agencies?
386.36
What is a grantee's liability for failing to provide accurate and complete scholar information to the Department?

# Subpart E—What Conditions Must Be Met by a Scholar?
386.40
What are the requirements for scholars?
386.41
Under what circumstances does the Secretary grant a deferral or exception to performance or repayment under a scholarship agreement?
386.42
What must a scholar do to obtain an exception or a deferral to performance or repayment under a scholarship agreement?
386.43
What are the consequences of a scholar's failure to meet the terms and conditions of a scholarship agreement?

# Authority:
Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55619, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 386.1
What is the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program?
(a) The Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program provides financial assistance for—
(1) Projects that provide basic or advanced training leading to an academic degree in one of those fields of study identified in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Projects that provide a specified series of courses or program of study leading to award of a certificate in one of those fields of study identified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(3) Projects that provide support for medical residents enrolled in residency training programs in the specialty of physical medicine and rehabilitation.
(b) The Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program is designed to provide academic training that leads to an academic degree or academic certificate in areas of personnel shortages identified by the Secretary and published in a notice in the
Federal Register.
These areas may include—
(1) Assisting and supporting individuals with disabilities pursuing self-employment, business ownership, and telecommuting;
(2) Vocational rehabilitation counseling;
(3) Rehabilitation technology, including training on its use, applications, and benefits;
(4) Rehabilitation medicine;
(5) Rehabilitation nursing;
(6) Rehabilitation social work;
(7) Rehabilitation psychiatry;
(8) Rehabilitation psychology;
(9) Rehabilitation dentistry;
(10) Physical therapy;
(11) Occupational therapy;
(12) Speech pathology and audiology;
(13) Physical education;
(14) Therapeutic recreation;
(15) Community rehabilitation program personnel;
(16) Prosthetics and orthotics;
(17) Rehabilitation of individuals who are blind or visually impaired, including rehabilitation teaching and orientation and mobility;
(18) Rehabilitation of individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing;
(19) Rehabilitation of individuals who are mentally ill;
(20) Undergraduate education in the rehabilitation services;
(21) Independent living;
(22) Client assistance;
(23) Administration of community rehabilitation programs;
(24) Rehabilitation administration;
(25) Vocational evaluation and work adjustment;
(26) Services to individuals with specific disabilities or specific impediments to rehabilitation, including individuals who are members of populations that are unserved or underserved by programs under this Act;
(27) Job development and job placement services to individuals with disabilities;
(28) Supported employment services and customized employment services for individuals with the most significant disabilities;
(29) Specialized services for individuals with significant disabilities;
(30) Other fields contributing to the rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities.
(Authority: Sections 12 and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709 and 772)
§ 386.2
Who is eligible for an award?
Those agencies and organizations eligible for assistance under this program are described in 34 CFR 385.2.
(Authority: Section 302(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 772(a))
§ 386.3
What regulations apply?
The following regulations apply to the Rehabilitation Training: Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program:
(a) The regulations in this part 386.
(b) The regulations in 34 CFR part 385.
(Authority: Section 302(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 772(a))
§ 386.4
What definitions apply?
The following definitions apply to this program:
(a) Definitions in 34 CFR 385.4.
(b)
Other definitions.
The following definitions also apply to this part:
Academic year
means a full-time course of study—
(i) Taken for a period totaling at least nine months; or
(ii) Taken for the equivalent of at least two semesters, two trimesters, or three quarters.
Certificate
means a recognized educational credential awarded by a grantee under this part that attests to the completion of a specified series of courses or program of study.
Professional corporation or professional practice
means—
(i) A professional service corporation or practice formed by one or more individuals duly authorized to render the same professional service, for the purpose of rendering that service; and
(ii) The corporation or practice and its members are subject to the same supervision by appropriate State regulatory agencies as individual practitioners.
Related agency
means—
(i) An American Indian rehabilitation program; or
(ii) Any of the following agencies that provide services to individuals with disabilities under an agreement or other arrangement with a designated State agency in the area of specialty for which training is provided:
(A) A Federal, State, or local agency.
(B) A nonprofit organization.
(C) A professional corporation or professional practice group.
Scholar
means an individual who is enrolled in a certificate or degree granting course of study in one of the areas listed in § 386.1(b) and who receives scholarship assistance under this part.
Scholarship
means an award of financial assistance to a scholar for training and includes all disbursements or credits for student stipends, tuition and fees, books and supplies, and student travel in conjunction with training assignments.
State vocational rehabilitation agency
means the designated State agency as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(13).
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))f
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—How Does the Secretary Make an Award?
§ 386.20
What additional selection criteria are used under this program?
In addition to the criteria in 34 CFR 385.31(c), the Secretary uses the following additional selection criteria to evaluate an application:
(a)
Relevance to State-Federal vocational rehabilitation service program.
(1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the proposed project appropriately relates to the mission of the State-Federal vocational rehabilitation service program.
(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows that the project can be expected either—
(i) To increase the supply of trained personnel available to State and other public or nonprofit agencies involved in the rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities through degree or certificate granting programs; or
(ii) To improve the skills and quality of professional personnel in the rehabilitation field in which the training is to be provided through the granting of a degree or certificate.
(b)
Nature and scope of curriculum.
(1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that demonstrates the adequacy of the proposed curriculum.
(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—
(i) The scope and nature of the coursework reflect content that can be expected to enable the achievement of the established project objectives;
(ii) The curriculum and teaching methods provide for an integration of theory and practice relevant to the educational objectives of the program;
(iii) For programs whose curricula require them, there is evidence of educationally focused practical and other field experiences in settings that ensure student involvement in the provision of vocational rehabilitation, supported employment, customized employment, pre-employment transition services, transition services, or independent living rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities, especially individuals with significant disabilities;
(iv) The coursework includes student exposure to vocational rehabilitation, supported employment, customized employment, employer engagement, and independent living rehabilitation processes, concepts, programs, and services; and
(v) If applicable, there is evidence of current professional accreditation by the designated accrediting agency in the professional field in which grant support is being requested.
(Authority: Section 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 386.21
What are the application procedures for these programs?
(a)
Application.
No grant shall be awarded or contract entered into under the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program unless the applicant has submitted to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, in accordance with such procedures identified by the Secretary and, and including such information as the Secretary may require, including—
(1) A description of how the designated State unit or units will participate in the project to be funded under the grant or contract, including, as appropriate, participation on advisory committees, as practicum sites, in curriculum development, and in other ways so as to build closer relationships between the applicant and the designated State unit and to encourage students to pursue careers in public vocational rehabilitation programs;
(2) The identification of potential employers that provide employment that meets the requirements in § 386.33(c); and
(3) An assurance that data on the employment of graduates or trainees who participate in the project is accurate.
(b) The Secretary gives the designated State agency an opportunity to review and comment on applications submitted from within the State that it serves. The procedures to be followed by the applicant and the State are in 34 CFR 75.155-75.159.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(b)(2) and (d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(b)(2) and (d))

# Subpart D—What Conditions Must Be Met After an Award?
§ 386.30
What are the matching requirements?
The grantee is required to contribute at least ten percent of the total cost of a project under this program. However, if the grantee can demonstrate that it has insufficient resources to contribute the entire match but that it can fulfill all other requirements for receiving an award, the Secretary may waive part of the non-Federal share of the cost of the project after negotiations with Department staff.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))
§ 386.31
What are the requirements for directing grant funds?
(a) A grantee must use at least 65 percent of the total cost of a project under this program for scholarships as defined in § 386.4.
(b) The Secretary may waive the requirement in (a) and award grants that use less than 65 percent of the total cost of the project for scholarships based upon the unique nature of the project, such as the establishment of a new training program or long-term training in an emerging field that does not award degrees or certificates.
(c) Before providing a scholarship to a scholar, a grantee must make good faith efforts to determine that the
scholar is not concurrently receiving more than one scholarship under this program for the same academic term.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 386.32
What are allowable costs?
In addition to those allowable costs established in the Education Department General Administrative Regulations in 34 CFR 75.530 through 75.562, the following items are allowable under long-term training projects:
(a) Student stipends.
(b) Tuition and fees.
(c) Books and supplies.
(d) Student travel in conjunction with training assignments.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 386.33
What are the requirements for grantees in disbursing scholarships?
Before disbursement of scholarship assistance to an individual, a grantee—
(a)(1) Must obtain documentation that the individual is—
(i) A U.S. citizen or national; or
(ii) A permanent resident of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands;
(2) Must confirm from documentation issued to the individual by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security that he or she—
(i) Is a lawful permanent resident of the United States; or
(ii) Is in the United States for other than a temporary purpose with the intention of becoming a citizen or permanent resident; and
(b) Must confirm that the applicant has expressed interest in a career in clinical practice, administration, supervision, teaching, or research in the vocational rehabilitation, supported employment, or independent living rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities, especially individuals with significant disabilities;
(c) Must obtain documentation, as described in § 386.40(a)(7), that the individual expects to seek and maintain employment in a designated State agency or in a related agency as defined in § 386.4 where
(1) The employment is in the field of study in which the training was received or
(2) Where the job functions are directly relevant to the field of study in which the training was received.
(d) Must ensure that the scholarship, when added to the amount of financial aid the scholar receives for the same academic year under title IV of the Higher Education Act, does not exceed the scholar's cost of attendance;
(e) Must limit scholarship assistance to no more than four academic years, unless the grantee provides an extension consistent with the institution's accommodations under section 504 of the Act; and
(f) Must obtain a Certification of Eligibility for Federal Assistance from each scholar as prescribed in 34 CFR 75.60, 75.61, and 75.62.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0018)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(b))
§ 386.34
What assurances must be provided by a grantee that intends to provide scholarships?
A grantee under this part that intends to grant scholarships for any academic year must provide the following assurances before an award is made:
(a)
Requirement for agreement.
No individual will be provided a scholarship without entering into a written agreement containing the terms and conditions required by this section. An individual will sign and date the agreement prior to the initial disbursement of scholarship funds to the individual for payment of the individual's expenses. An agreement must be executed between the grantee and scholar for each subsequent year that scholarship funds are disbursed and must contain the terms and conditions required by this section.
(b)
Disclosure to applicants.
The terms and conditions of the agreement between the grantee and a scholar will be fully disclosed in the application for scholarship.
(c)
Form and terms of agreement.
Prior to granting each year of a scholarship, the grantee will require each scholar to enter into a signed written agreement in which the scholar agrees to the terms and conditions set forth in § 386.40. This agreement must be in the form and contain any additional terms and conditions that the Secretary may require.
(d)
Executed agreement.
The grantee will provide an original signed executed payback agreement upon request to the Secretary.
(e)
Standards for satisfactory progress.
The grantee will establish, publish, and apply reasonable standards for measuring whether a scholar is maintaining satisfactory progress in the scholar's course of study. The Secretary considers an institution's standards to be reasonable if the standards—
(1) Conform with the standards of satisfactory progress of the nationally recognized accrediting agency that accredits the institution's program of study, if the institution's program of study is accredited by such an agency, and if the agency has those standards;
(2) For a scholar enrolled in an eligible program who is to receive assistance under the Rehabilitation Act, are the same as or stricter than the institution's standards for a student enrolled in the same academic program who is not receiving assistance under the Rehabilitation Act; and
(3) Include the following elements:
(i) Grades, work projects completed, or comparable factors that are measurable against a norm.
(ii) A maximum timeframe in which the scholar must complete the scholar's educational objective, degree, or certificate.
(iii) Consistent application of standards to all scholars within categories of students;
e.g.
, full-time, part-time, undergraduates, graduate students, and students attending programs established by the institution.
(iv) Specific policies defining the effect of course incompletes, withdrawals, repetitions, and noncredit remedial courses on satisfactory progress.
(v) Specific procedures for appeal of a determination that a scholar is not making satisfactory progress and for reinstatement of aid.
(f)
Exit certification.
(1) At the time of exit from the program, the grantee will provide the following information to the scholar:
(i) The name of the institution and the number of the Federal grant that provided the scholarship.
(ii) the total amount of scholarship assistance received subject to § 386.40(a)(7).
(iii) The scholar's field of study and the obligation of the scholar to perform the service obligation with employment that meets the requirements in § 386.40(a)(7)(i).
(iv) The number of years the scholar needs to work to satisfy the work requirements in § 386.40(a)(7)(ii).
(v) The time period during which the scholar must satisfy the work requirements in § 386.40(a)(8).
(vi) As applicable, all other obligations of the scholar in § 386.40.
(2) Upon receipt of this information from the grantee, the scholar must provide written and signed certification to the grantee that the information is correct.
(g)
Tracking system.
The grantee has established policies and procedures to determine compliance of the scholar with the terms of the signed payback agreement. In order to determine whether a scholar has met the terms and conditions set forth in § 386.40, the tracking system must include for each employment position maintained by the scholar—
(1) Documentation of the employer's name, address, dates of the scholar's employment, name of supervisor, position title, a description of the duties the scholar performed, and whether the employment is full- or part-time;
(2) Documentation of how the employment meets the requirements in § 386.40(a)(7); and
(3) In the event a grantee is experiencing difficulty locating a scholar, documentation that the grantee has checked with existing tracking systems operated by alumni organizations.
(h)
Reports.
The grantee will make annual reports to the Secretary, unless more frequent reporting is required by the Secretary, that are necessary to
carry out the Secretary's functions under this part.
(i)
Repayment status.
The grantee will immediately report to the Secretary whenever a scholar has entered repayment status under § 386.43(e) and provide all necessary documentation in support thereof.
(j)
Records.
The grantee will maintain accurate and complete records as outlined in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section for a period of time not less than one year beyond the date that all scholars provided financial assistance under the grant—
(1) Have completed their service obligation or
(2) Have entered into repayment status pursuant to § 386.43(e).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0018)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(b))
§ 386.35
What information must be provided by a grantee that is an institution of higher education to assist designated State agencies?
A grantee that is an institution of higher education provided assistance under this part must cooperate with the following requests for information from a designated State agency:
(a) Information required by section 101(a)(7) of the Act which may include, but is not limited to—
(1) The number of students enrolled by the grantee in rehabilitation training programs; and
(2) The number of rehabilitation professionals trained by the grantee who graduated with certification or licensure, or with credentials to qualify for certification or licensure, during the past year.
(b) Information on the availability of rehabilitation courses leading to certification or licensure, or the credentials to qualify for certification or licensure, to assist State agencies in the planning of a program of staff development for all classes of positions that are involved in the administration and operation of the State vocational rehabilitation program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0018)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 386.36
What is a grantee's liability for failing to provide accurate and complete scholar information to the Department?
The Department may recover, in whole or in part, from the grantee the debt amount and any collection costs described in §§ 386.40(d) and 386.43, if the Department:
(a) Is unable to collect, or improperly collected, some or all of these amounts or costs from a scholar and
(b) Determines that the grantee failed to provide to the Department accurate and complete documentation described in § 386.34.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)

# Subpart E—What Conditions Must Be Met by a Scholar?
§ 386.40
What are the requirements for scholars?
(a) A scholar must—
(1) Be enrolled in a course of study leading to a certificate or degree in one of the fields designated in § 386.1(b);
(2) Receive the training at the educational institution or agency designated in the scholarship;
(3) Not accept payment of educational allowances from any other entity if that allowance conflicts with the scholar's obligation under section 302 of the Act and this part;
(4) Not receive concurrent scholarships for the same academic term from more than one project under this program;
(5) Enter into a signed written agreement with the grantee, prior to the receipt of scholarship funds, as required in § 386.34(c);
(6) Maintain satisfactory progress toward the certificate or degree as determined by the grantee;
(7) Upon exiting the training program under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, subsequently maintain employment on
a full- or part-time basis subject to the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section—
(i)(A) In a State vocational rehabilitation agency or related agency as defined in § 386.4; and
(B)(
1
) In the field of study for which training was received, or
(
2
) Where the field of study is directly relevant to the job functions performed; and
(ii) For a period of at least the full-time equivalent of two years for every academic year for which assistance under this section was received subject to the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section for part-time coursework;
(8) Complete the service obligation within a period, beginning after the recipient exits the training program for which the scholarship was awarded, of not more than the sum of the number of years in the period described in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section and two additional years;
(9) Repay all or part of any scholarship received, plus interest, if the individual does not fulfill the requirements of this section, except as provided for in § 386.41 for exceptions and deferrals; and
(10) Provide the grantee all requested information necessary for the grantee to meet the exit certification requirements in § 386.34(f) and, as necessary, thereafter for any changes necessary for the grantee to monitor the scholar's service obligation under this section.
(b)(1) The period of qualifying employment that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(7) of this section may begin—
(i) For courses of study of at least one year, only subsequent to the completion of one academic year of the training for which the scholarship assistance was received.
(ii) For courses of study of less than one year, only upon completion of the training for which the scholarship assistance was received.
(2) The work completed as part of an internship, practicum, or any other work-related requirement necessary to complete the educational program is not considered qualifying employment.
(c) If the scholar is pursuing coursework on a part-time basis, the service obligation for these part-time courses is based on the equivalent total of actual academic years of training received.
(d) If a scholar fails to provide the information in paragraph (a)(10) of this section or otherwise maintain contact with the grantee pursuant to the terms of the signed payback agreement and enters into repayment status pursuant to § 386.43, the scholar will be held responsible for any costs assessed in the collection process under that section even if that information is subsequently provided.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(b))
§ 386.41
Under what circumstances does the Secretary grant a deferral or exception to performance or repayment under a scholarship agreement?
Based upon sufficient evidence to substantiate the grounds as detailed in § 386.42, a repayment exception to or deferral of the requirements of § 386.40(a)(7) may be granted, in whole or in part, by the Secretary as follows:
(a) Repayment is not required if the scholar—
(1) Is unable to continue the course of study or perform the work obligation because of a permanent disability that meets one of the following conditions:
(i) The disability had not been diagnosed at the time the scholar signed the agreement in § 386.34(c); or
(ii) The disability did not prevent the scholar from performing the requirements of the course of study or the work obligation at the time the scholar signed the agreement in § 386.34(c) but subsequently worsened; or
(2) Has died.
(b) Repayment of a scholarship may be deferred during the time the scholar is—
(1) Engaging in a full-time course of study in the field of rehabilitation at an institution of higher education;
(2) Serving on active duty as a member of the armed services of the United States for a period not in excess of four years;
(3) Serving as a volunteer under the Peace Corps Act;
(4) Serving as a full-time volunteer under title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973;
(5) Experiencing a temporary disability that affects the scholar's ability to continue the course of study or perform the work obligation, for a period not to exceed three years; or
(c) Under limited circumstances as determined by the Secretary and based upon credible evidence submitted on behalf of the scholar, the Secretary may grant an exception to, or deferral of, the requirement to repay a scholarship in instances not specified in this section. These instances could include, but are not limited to, the care of a disabled spouse, partner, or child or the need to accompany a spouse or partner on active duty in the Armed Forces.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(b))
§ 386.42
What must a scholar do to obtain an exception or a deferral to performance or repayment under a scholarship agreement?
To obtain an exception or a deferral to performance or repayment under a scholarship agreement under § 386.41, a scholar must provide the following:
(a)
Written application.
A written application must be made to the Secretary to request a deferral or an exception to performance or repayment of a scholarship.
(b)
Documentation.
Sufficient documentation must be provided to substantiate the grounds for all deferrals or exceptions, including the following, as appropriate.
(1) Documentation necessary to substantiate an exception under § 386.41(a)(1) or a deferral under § 386.41(b)(5) must include a letter from a qualified physician or other medical professional, on official stationery, attesting how the disability affects the scholar in completing the course of study or performing the work obligation. The documentation must be less than three months old and include the scholar's diagnosis and prognosis and ability to complete the course of study or work with accommodations.
(2) Documentation to substantiate an exception under § 386.41(a)(2) must include a death certificate or other evidence conclusive under State law.
(3) Documentation necessary to substantiate a deferral or exception under 386.41(c) based upon the disability of a spouse, partner, or child must meet the criteria, as relevant, in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0018)
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 386.43
What are the consequences of a scholar's failure to meet the terms and conditions of a scholarship agreement?
In the event of a failure to meet the terms and conditions of a scholarship agreement or to obtain a deferral or an exception as provided in § 386.41, the scholar must repay all or part of the scholarship as follows:
(a)
Amount.
The amount of the scholarship to be repaid is proportional to the employment obligation not completed.
(b)
Interest rate.
The Secretary charges the scholar interest on the unpaid balance owed in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(c)
Interest accrual.
(1) Interest on the unpaid balance accrues from the date the scholar is determined to have entered repayment status under paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Any accrued interest is capitalized at the time the scholar's repayment schedule is established.
(3) No interest is charged for the period of time during which repayment has been deferred under § 386.41.
(d)
Collection costs.
Under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3717, the Secretary may impose reasonable collection costs.
(e)
Repayment status.
A scholar enters repayment status on the first day of the first calendar month after the earliest of the following dates, as applicable:
(1) The date the scholar informs the Secretary he or she does not plan to fulfill the employment obligation under the agreement.
(2) Any date when the scholar's failure to begin or maintain employment makes it impossible for that individual
to complete the employment obligation within the number of years required in § 386.40(a)(8).
(f)
Amounts and frequency of payment.
The scholar shall make payments to the Secretary that cover principal, interest, and collection costs according to a schedule established by the Secretary.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(b))
Pt. 387

# PART 387—INNOVATIVE REHABILITATION TRAINING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
387.1
What is the Innovative Rehabilitation Training program?
387.2
Who is eligible for assistance under this program?
387.3
What regulations apply to this program?
387.4
What definitions apply to this program?
387.5
What types of projects are authorized under this program?
Subparts B-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
387.30
What additional selection criteria are used under this program?

# Subpart E—What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
387.40
What are the matching requirements?
387.41
What are allowable costs?

# Authority:
Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), and 772, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55623, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 387.1
What is the Innovative Rehabilitation Training program?
This program is designed—
(a) To develop new types of training programs for rehabilitation personnel and to demonstrate the effectiveness of these new types of training programs for rehabilitation personnel in providing rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities;
(b) To develop new and improved methods of training rehabilitation personnel so that there may be a more effective delivery of rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities by designated State rehabilitation agencies and designated State rehabilitation units or other public or non-profit rehabilitation service agencies or organizations; and
(c) To develop new innovative training programs for vocational rehabilitation professionals and paraprofessionals to have a 21st century understanding of the evolving labor force and the needs of individuals with disabilities so they can more effectively provide vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 121(a)(7), and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 721(a)(7), and 772)
§ 387.2
Who is eligible for assistance under this program?
Those agencies and organizations eligible for assistance under this program are described in 34 CFR 385.2.
(Authority: Section 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 387.3
What regulations apply to this program?
(a) 34 CFR part 385 (Rehabilitation Training); and
(b) The regulations in this part 387.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 387.4
What definitions apply to this program?
The definitions in 34 CFR part 385 apply to this program.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772))
§ 387.5
What types of projects are authorized under this program?
The Innovative Rehabilitation Training Program supports time-limited pilot projects through which new types of rehabilitation workers may be trained or through which innovative
methods of training rehabilitation personnel may be demonstrated.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772))
Subparts B-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
§ 387.30
What additional selection criteria are used under this program?
In addition to the criteria in 34 CFR 385.31(c), the Secretary uses the following additional selection criteria to evaluate an application:
(a)
Relevance to State-Federal rehabilitation service program.
(1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the proposed project appropriately relates to the mission of the State-Federal rehabilitation service program.
(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows that the project can be expected either—
(i) To increase the supply of trained personnel available to public and private agencies involved in the rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities; or
(ii) To maintain and improve the skills and quality of rehabilitation personnel.
(b)
Nature and scope of curriculum.
(1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that demonstrates the adequacy and scope of the proposed curriculum.
(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows that—
(i) The scope and nature of the training content can be expected to enable the achievement of the established project objectives of the training project;
(ii) The curriculum and teaching methods provide for an integration of theory and practice relevant to the educational objectives of the program;
(iii) There is evidence of educationally focused practicum or other field experiences in settings that assure student involvement in the provision of vocational rehabilitation or independent living rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities, especially individuals with significant disabilities; and
(iv) The didactic coursework includes student exposure to vocational rehabilitation processes, concepts, programs, and services.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)

# Subpart E—What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
§ 387.40
What are the matching requirements?
A grantee must contribute to the cost of a project under this program in an amount satisfactory to the Secretary. The part of the costs to be borne by the grantee is determined by the Secretary at the time of the grant award.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 387.41
What are allowable costs?
In addition to those allowable costs established under 34 CFR 75.530-75.562, the following items are allowable under Innovative Rehabilitation training projects—
(a) Student stipends;
(b) Tuition and fees; and
(c) Student travel in conjunction with training assignments.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
PARTS 388-389 [RESERVED]
Pt. 390

# PART 390—REHABILITATION SHORT-TERM TRAINING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
390.1
What is the Rehabilitation Short-Term Training program?
390.2
Who is eligible for assistance under this program?
390.3
What regulations apply to this program?
390.4
What definitions apply to this program?

# Subpart B—What Kinds of Projects Does the Department of Education Assist Under This Program?
390.10
What types of projects are authorized under this program?
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
390.30
What additional selection criterion is used under this program?

# Subpart E—What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
390.40
What are the matching requirements?
390.41
What are allowable costs?

# Authority:
Sections 12(a) and (c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(a) and (c) and 772, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55624, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 390.1
What is the Rehabilitation Short-Term Training program?
This program is designed for the support of special seminars, institutes, workshops, and other short-term courses in technical matters relating to the vocational, medical, social, and psychological rehabilitation programs, independent living services programs, and client assistance programs.
(Authority: Sections 12(a)(2) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(a)(2) and 772)
§ 390.2
Who is eligible for assistance under this program?
Those agencies and organizations eligible for assistance under this program are described in 34 CFR 385.2.
(Authority: Section 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 772)
§ 390.3
What regulations apply to this program?
(a) 34 CFR part 385 (Rehabilitation Training); and
(b) The regulations in this part 390.
(Authority: Section 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 772)
§ 390.4
What definitions apply to this program?
The definitions in 34 CFR part 385 apply to this program.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c)

# Subpart B—What Kinds of Projects Does the Department of Education Assist Under This Program?
§ 390.10
What types of projects are authorized under this program?
(a) Projects under this program are designed to provide short-term training and technical instruction in areas of special significance to the vocational, medical, social, and psychological rehabilitation programs, supported employment programs, independent living services programs, and client assistance programs.
(b) Short-term training projects may be of regional or national scope.
(c) Conferences and meetings in which training is not the primary focus may not be supported under this program.
(Authority: Section 12(a)(2) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(a)(2) and 772)
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
§ 390.30
What additional selection criterion is used under this program?
In addition to the criteria in 34 CFR 385.31(c), the Secretary uses the following additional selection criterion to evaluate an application:
(a)
Relevance to State-Federal rehabilitation service program.
(1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the proposed project appropriately relates to the mission of the State-Federal rehabilitation service programs.
(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows that the proposed project can be expected to improve the skills and competence of—
(i) Personnel engaged in the administration or delivery of rehabilitation services; and
(ii) Others with an interest in the delivery of rehabilitation services.
(b)
Evidence of training needs.
The Secretary reviews each application for evidence of training needs as identified through training needs assessment conducted by the applicant or by designated State agencies or designated State units or any other public and private nonprofit rehabilitation service agencies or organizations that provide rehabilitation services and other services authorized under the Act, whose personnel will receive the training.
(Authority: Section 12(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c))

# Subpart E—What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
§ 390.40
What are the matching requirements?
A grantee must contribute to the cost of a project under this program in an amount satisfactory to the Secretary. The part of the costs to be borne by the grantee is determined by the Secretary at the time of the award.
(Authority: Section 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
§ 390.41
What are allowable costs?
(a) In addition to those allowable costs established in 34 CFR 75.530-75.562, the following items are allowable under short-term training projects:
(1) Trainee per diem costs;
(2) Trainee travel in connection with a training course;
(3) Trainee registration fees; and
(4) Special accommodations for trainees with handicaps.
(b) The preparation of training materials may not be supported under a short-term training grant unless the materials are essential for the conduct of the seminar, institute, workshop or other short course for which the grant support has been provided.
(Authority: Section 12(c) and 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772)
Pt. 395

# PART 395—VENDING FACILITY PROGRAM FOR THE BLIND ON FEDERAL AND OTHER PROPERTY

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
395.1
Terms.

# Subpart B—The State Licensing Agency
395.2
Application for designation as a State licensing agency; general.
395.3
Application for designation as State licensing agency; content.
395.4
State rules and regulations.
395.5
Approval of application for designation as State licensing agency.
395.6
Vendor ownership of vending facilities.
395.7
The issuance and conditions of licenses.
395.8
Distribution and use of income from vending machines on Federal property.
395.9
The setting aside of funds by the State licensing agency.
395.10
The maintenance and replacement of vending facility equipment.
395.11
Training program for blind individuals.
395.12
Access to program and financial information.
395.13
Evidentiary hearings and arbitration of vendor complaints.
395.14
The State Committee of Blind Vendors.
395.15
Use of nominee agreements.
395.16
Permit for the establishment of vending facilities.
395.17
Suspension of designation as State licensing agency.

# Subpart C—Federal Property Management
395.30
The location and operation of vending facilities for blind vendors on Federal property.
395.31
Acquisition and occupation of Federal property.
395.32
Collection and distribution of vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property.
395.33
Operation of cafeterias by blind vendors.
395.34
Application for permits.
395.35
Terms of permit.
395.36
Enforcement procedures.
395.37
Arbitration of State licensing agency complaints.
395.38
Reports.

# Authority:
Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 1559, as amended; 20 U.S.C. 107a.

# Source:
42 FR 15802, Mar. 23, 1977, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 45 FR 77369, Nov. 21, 1980, and further redesignated at 46 FR 5417, Jan. 19, 1981.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 395.1
Terms.
Unless otherwise indicated in this part, the terms below are defined as follows:
(a)
Act
means the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Stand Act (Pub. L. 74-732), as amended by Pub. L. 83-565 and Pub. L. 93-516, 20 U.S.C., ch. 6A, Sec 107.
(b)
Blind licensee
means a blind person licensed by the State licensing agency to operate a vending facility on Federal or other property.
(c)
Blind person
means a person who, after examination by a physician skilled in diseases of the eye or by an optometrist, whichever such person shall select, has been determined to have
(1) Not more than 20/200 central visual acuity in the better eye with correcting lenses, or
(2) An equally disabling loss of the visual field as evidenced by a limitation to the field of vision in the better eye to such a degree that its widest diameter subtends an angle of no greater than 20°.
(d)
Cafeteria
means a food dispensing facility capable of providing a broad variety of prepared foods and beverages (including hot meals) primarily through the use of a line where the customer serves himself from displayed selections. A cafeteria may be fully automatic or some limited waiter or waitress service may be available and provided within a cafeteria and table or booth seating facilities are always provided.
(e)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Rehabilitation Services Administration.
(f)
Direct competition
means the presence and operation of a vending machine or a vending facility on the same premises as a vending facility operated by a blind vendor, except that vending machines or vending facilities operated in areas serving employees the majority of whom normally do not have direct access (in terms of uninterrupted ease of approach and the amount of time required to patronize the vending facility) to the vending facility operated by a blind vendor shall not be considered to be in direct competition with the vending facility operated by a blind vendor.
(g)
Federal property
means any building, land, or other real property owned, leased, or occupied by any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States (including the Department of Defense and the U.S. Postal Service), or any other instrumentality wholly owned by the United States, or by any department or agency of the District of Columbia or any territory or possession of the United States.
(h)
Individual location installation or facility
means a single building or a self-contained group of buildings. In order for two or more buildings to be considered to be a self-contained group of buildings, such buildings must be located in close proximity to each other, and a majority of the Federal employees housed in any such building must regularly move from one building to another in the course of official business during normal working days.
(i)
License
means a written instrument issued by the State licensing agency to a blind person, authorizing such person to operate a vending facility on Federal or other property.
(j)
Management services
means supervision, inspection, quality control, consultation, accounting, regulating, in-service training, and other related services provided on a systematic basis to support and improve vending facilities operated by blind vendors.
Management services
does not include those services or costs which pertain to the on-going operation of an individual facility after the initial establishment period.
(k)
Net proceeds
means the amount remaining from the sale of articles or services of vending facilities, and any vending machine or other income accruing to blind vendors after deducting the cost of such sale and other expenses (excluding set-aside charges required to be paid by such blind vendors).
(l)
Nominee
means a nonprofit agency or organization designated by the State licensing agency through a written agreement to act as its agent in the provision of services to blind licensees under the State's vending facility program.
(m)
Normal working hours
means an eight hour work period between the approximate hours of 8:00 a.m., to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(n)
Other property
means property which is not Federal property and on which vending facilities are established or operated by the use of any funds derived in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from the operation of vending facilities on any Federal property.
(o)
Permit
means the official approval given a State licensing agency by a department, agency or instrumentality in control of the maintenance, operation, and protection of Federal property, or person in control of other property, whereby the State licensing agency is authorized to establish a vending facility.
(p)
Program
means all the activities of the licensing agency under this part related to vending facilities on Federal and other property.
(q)
Satisfactory site
means an area fully accessible to vending facility patrons and having:
(1) Effective on March 23, 1977 a minimum of 250 square feet available for the vending and storage of articles necessary for the operation of a vending facility; and
(2) Sufficient electrical plumbing, heating, and ventilation outlets for the location and operation of a vending facility in accordance with applicable health laws and building codes.
(r)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Education.
(s)
Set-aside funds
means funds which accrue to a State licensing agency from an assessment against the net proceeds of each vending facility in the State's vending facility program and any income from vending machines on Federal property which accrues to the State licensing agency.
(t)
State
means a State, territory, possession, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
(u)
State vocational rehabilitation agency
means that agency in the State providing vocational rehabilitation services to the blind as the sole State agency under a State plan for vocational rehabilitation services approved pursuant to the provisions of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C., ch. 16).
(v)
State licensing agency
means the State agency designated by the Secretary under this part to issue licenses to blind persons for the operation of vending facilities on Federal and other property.
(w)
United States
includes the several States, territories, and possessions of the United States, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia.
(x)
Vending facility
means automatic vending machines, cafeterias, snack bars, cart service, shelters, counters, and such other appropriate auxiliary equipment which may be operated by blind licensees and which is necessary for the sale of newspapers, periodicals, confections, tobacco products, foods, beverages, and other articles or services dispensed automatically or manually and prepared on or off the premises in accordance with all applicable health laws, and including the vending or exchange of changes for any lottery authorized by State law and conducted by an agency of a State within such State.
(y)
Vending machine,
for the purpose of assigning vending machine income under this part, means a coin or currency operated machine which dispenses articles or services, except that those machines operated by the United States Postal Service for the sale of postage stamps or other postal products and services, machines providing services of a recreational nature, and telephones shall not be considered to be vending machines.
(z)
Vending machine income
means receipts (other than those of a blind vendor) from vending machine operations on Federal property, after deducting the cost of goods sold (including reasonable service and maintenance costs in accordance with customary business practices of commercial vending concerns, where the machines are operated, serviced, or maintained by, or with the approval of, a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, or commissions paid (other than to a blind vendor) by a commercial vending concern which operates, services, and maintains vending machines on Federal property for, or with the approval of, a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States.
(aa)
Vendor
means a blind licensee who is operating a vending facility on Federal or other property.
(bb)
Vocational rehabilitation services
means those services as defined in § 1361.1(ee) (1) and (2) of this chapter.

# Subpart B—The State Licensing Agency
§ 395.2
Application for designation as a State licensing agency; general.
(a) An application for designation as a State licensing agency may be submitted only by the State vocational rehabilitation agency providing vocational rehabilitation services to the blind under an approved State plan for vocational rehabilitation services under part 1361 of this chapter.
(b) Such application shall be:
(1) Submitted in writing to the Secretary;
(2) Approved by the chief executive of the State; and
(3) Transmitted over the signature of the administrator of the State agency making application.
§ 395.3
Application for designation as State licensing agency; content.
(a) An application for designation as a State licensing agency under § 395.2 shall indicate:
(1) The State licensing agency's legal authority to administer the program, including its authority to promulgate rules and regulations to govern the program;
(2) The State licensing agency's organization for carrying out the program, including a description of the methods for coordinating the State's vending facility program and the State's vocational rehabilitation program, with special reference to the provision of such post-employment services necessary to assure that the maximum vocational potential of each blind vendor is achieved;
(3) The policies and standards to be employed in the selection of suitable locations for vending facilities;
(4) The methods to be used to ensure the continuing and active participation of the State Committee of Blind Vendors in matters affecting policy and program development and administration.
(5) The policies to be followed in making suitable vending facility equipment and adequate initial stock available to a vendor;
(6) The sources of funds for the administration of the program;
(7) The policies and standards governing the relationship of the State licensing agency to the vendors, including their selection, duties, supervision, transfer, promotion, financial participation, rights to a full evidentiary hearing concerning a State licensing agency action, and, where necessary, rights for the submittal of complaints to an arbitration panel;
(8) The methods to be followed in providing suitable training, including on-the-job training and, where appropriate, upward mobility training, to blind vendors;
(9) The arrangements made or contemplated, if any, for the utilization of the services of any nominee under § 395.15; the agreements therefor and the services to be provided; the procedures for the supervision and control of the services provided by such nominee and the methods used in evaluating services received, the basis for remuneration, and the fiscal controls and accounting procedures;
(10) The arrangements made or contemplated, if any, for the vesting in accordance with the laws of the State, of the right, title to, and interest in vending facility equipment or stock (including vending machines), used in the program, in a nominee to hold such right, title to, and interest for program purposes; and
(11) The assurances of the State licensing agency that it will:
(i) Cooperate with the Secretary in applying the requirements of the Act in a uniform manner;
(ii) Take effective action, including the termination of licenses, to carry out full responsibility for the supervision and management of each vending facility in its program in accordance with its established rules and regulations, this part, and the terms and conditions governing the permit;
(iii) Submit promptly to the Secretary for approval a description of any changes in the legal authority of the State licensing agency, its rules and regulations, blind vendor agreements,
schedules for the setting aside of funds, contractual arrangements for the furnishing of services by a nominee, arrangements for carrying general liability and product liability insurance, and any other matters which form a part of the application;
(iv) If it intends to set aside, or cause to be set aside, funds from the net proceeds of the operation of vending facilities, obtain a prior determination by the Secretary that the amount of such funds to be set aside is reasonable;
(v) Establish policies against discrimination of any blind vendor on the basis of sex, age, physical or mental impairment, creed, color, national origin, or political affiliation;
(vi) Furnish each vendor a copy of its rules and regulations and a description of the arrangements for providing services, and take adequate steps to assure that each vendor understands the provisions of the permit and any agreement under which he operates, as evidenced by his signed statements:
(vii) Submit to an arbitration panel those grievances of any vendor unresolved after a full evidentiary hearing;
(viii) Adopt accounting procedures and maintain financial records in a manner necessary to provide for each vending facility and for the State's vending facility program a classification of financial transactions in such detail as is sufficient to enable evaluation of performance; and
(ix) Maintain records and make reports in such form and containing such information as the Secretary may require, make such records available for audit purposes, and comply with such provisions as the Secretary may find necessary to assure the correctness and verification of such reports.
(b) An application submitted under § 395.2 shall be accompanied by a copy of State rules and regulations affecting the administration and operation of the State's vending facility program.
§ 395.4
State rules and regulations.
(a) The State licensing agency shall promulgate rules and regulations which have been approved by the Secretary and which shall be adequate to assure the effective conduct of the State's vending facility program (including State licensing agency procedures covering the conduct of full evidentiary hearings) and the operation of each vending facility in accordance with this part and with the requirements and conditions of each department, agency, and instrumentality in control of the maintenance, operation, and protection of Federal property, including the conditions contained in permits, as well as in all applicable Federal and State laws, local ordinances and regulations.
(b) Such rules and regulations and amendments thereto shall be filed or published in accordance with State law.
(c) Such rules and regulations shall include provisions adequate to insure that the right, title to, and interest in each vending facility used in the program and the stock will be vested in accordance with the laws of the State in only the following:
(1) The State licensing agency; or
(2) Its nominee, subject to the conditions specified in § 395.15(b); or
(3) The vendor, in accordance with State determination.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, any right, title to, or interest which existed on June 30, 1955, in stock may continue so long as:
(1) The interest is in the stock of a facility established under the program prior to July 1, 1955, and
(2) The vendor was licensed in the program (whether or not for the operation of the vending facility in question) prior to July 1, 1955.
§ 395.5
Approval of application for designation as State licensing agency.
When the Secretary determines that an application submitted by a State vocational rehabilitation agency under § 395.2, and the accompanying rules and regulations indicate a plan of program operations which will stimulate and enlarge the economic opportunities for the blind, and which will meet all other requirements of this part, he shall approve the application and shall designate the applying State vocational rehabilitation agency as the State licensing agency.
§ 395.6
Vendor ownership of vending facilities.
(a) If a State licensing agency determines under § 395.4(c) that the right, title to, and interest in a vending facility may be vested in the blind vendor, the State licensing agency shall enter into a written agreement with each vendor who is to have such ownership. Such agreement shall contain in full the terms and conditions governing such ownership in accordance with criteria in the State licensing agency's regulations, this part, and the terms and conditions of the permit. The criteria established to govern the determination that the title may be so vested shall contain reasonable provisions to enable a vendor to purchase vending facility equipment and to ensure that no individual will be denied the opportunity to become a vendor because of his inability to purchase the vending facility equipment or the initial stock;
(b) The State licensing agency shall establish in writing and maintain policies determining whether the vendor-owner or the State licensing agency shall be required to maintain the vending facility in good repair and in an attractive condition and replace worn-out or obsolete equipment; and if the former, such policies shall provide that upon such vendor-owner's failure to do so, the State licensing agency may make the necessary maintenance, replacement, or repairs and make equitable arrangements for reimbursement;
(c) Where the vendor owns such equipment and is required to maintain the vending facility in good repair and in an attractive condition and replace worn-out or obsolete equipment, or agrees to purchase additional new equipment, service charges for such purposes shall be equitably reduced and the method for determining such amount shall be established by the State licensing agency in writing;
(d) Where the vendor owns such equipment, the State licensing agency shall retain a first option to repurchase such equipment, and in the event the vendor-owner dies, or for any other reason ceases to be a licensee, or transfers to another vending facility, ownership of such equipment shall become vested in the State licensing agency for transfer to a successor licensee subject to an obligation on its part to pay to such vendor-owner or his estate, the fair value therein; and
(e) The vendor-owner, his personal representative or next of kin shall be entitled to an opportunity for a full evidentiary hearing with respect to the determination of the amount to be paid by the State licensing agency for a vendor's ownership in the equipment. When the vendor-owner is dissatisfied with any decision rendered as a result of such hearing, he may file a complaint with the Secretary under § 395.13 to request the convening of an ad hoc arbitration panel.
§ 395.7
The issuance and conditions of licenses.
(a) The State licensing agency shall establish in writing and maintain objective criteria for licensing qualified applicants, including a provision for giving preference to blind persons who are in need of employment. Such criteria shall also include provisions to assure that licenses will be issued only to persons who are determined by the State licensing agency to be:
(1) Blind;
(2) Citizens of the United States; and
(3) Certified by the State vocational rehabilitation agency as qualified to operate a vending facility.
(b) The State licensing agency shall provide for the issuance of licenses for an indefinite period but subject to suspension or termination if, after affording the vendor an opportunity for a full evidentiary hearing, the State licensing agency finds that the vending facility is not being operated in accordance with its rules and regulations, the terms and conditions of the permit, and the terms and conditions of the agreement with the vendor.
(c) The State licensing agency shall further establish in writing and maintain policies which have been developed with the active participation of the State Committee of Blind Vendors and which govern the duties, supervision, transfer, promotion, and financial participation of the vendors. The State licensing agency shall also establish procedures to assure that such policies have been explained to each blind vendor.
§ 395.8
Distribution and use of income from vending machines on Federal property.
(a) Vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property which has been disbursed to the State licensing agency by a property managing department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States under § 395.32 shall accrue to each blind vendor operating a vending facility on such Federal property in each State in an amount not to exceed the average net income of the total number of blind vendors within such State, as determined each fiscal year on the basis of each prior year's operation, except that vending machine income shall not accrue to any blind vendor in any amount exceeding the average net income of the total number of blind vendors in the United States. No blind vendor shall receive less vending machine income than he was receiving during the calendar year prior to January 1, 1974, as a direct result of any limitation imposed on such income under this paragraph. No limitation shall be imposed on income from vending machines, combined to create a vending facility, when such facility is maintained, serviced, or operated by a blind vendor. Vending machine income disbursed by a property managing department, agency or instrumentality of the United States to a State licensing agency in excess of the amounts eligible to accrue to blind vendors in accordance with this paragraph shall be retained by the appropriate State licensing agency.
(b) The State licensing agency shall disburse vending machine income to blind vendors within the State on at least a quarterly basis.
(c) Vending machine income which is retained under paragraph (a) of this section by a State licensing agency shall be used by such agency for the establishment and maintenance of retirement or pension plans, for health insurance contributions, and for the provision of paid sick leave and vacation time for blind vendors in such State, if it is so determined by a majority vote of blind vendors licensed by the State licensing agency, after such agency has provided to each such vendor information on all matters relevant to such purposes. Any vending machine income not necessary for such purposes shall be used by the State licensing agency for the maintenance and replacement of equipment, the purchase of new equipment, management services, and assuring a fair minimum return to vendors. Any assessment charged to blind vendors by a State licensing agency shall be reduced pro rata in an amount equal to the total of such remaining vending machine income.
§ 395.9
The setting aside of funds by the State licensing agency.
(a) The State licensing agency shall establish in writing the extent to which funds are to be set aside or caused to be set aside from the net proceeds of the operation of the vending facilities and, to the extent applicable, from vending machine income under § 395.8(c) in an amount determined by the Secretary to be reasonable.
(b) Funds may be set aside under paragraph (a) of this section only for the purposes of:
(1) Maintenance and replacement of equipment;
(2) The purchase of new equipment;
(3) Management services;
(4) Assuring a fair minimum of return to vendors; or
(5) The establishment and maintenance of retirement or pension funds, health insurance contributions, and provision for paid sick leave and vacation time, if it is so determined by a majority vote of blind vendors licensed by the State licensing agency, after such agency provides to each such vendor information on all matters relevant to such proposed purposes.
(c) The State licensing agency shall further set out the method of determining the charge for each of the above purposes listed in paragraph (b) of this section, which will be determined with the active participation of the State Committee of Blind Vendors and which will be designed to prevent, so far as is practicable, a greater charge for any purpose than is reasonably required for that purpose. The State licensing agency shall maintain adequate records to support the reasonableness of the charges for each of the purposes listed in this section, including any reserves
necessary to assure that such purposes can be achieved on a consistent basis.
§ 395.10
The maintenance and replacement of vending facility equipment.
The State licensing agency shall maintain (or cause to be maintained) all vending facility equipment in good repair and in an attractive condition and shall replace or cause to be replaced worn-out and obsolete equipment as required to ensure the continued successful operation of the facility.
§ 395.11
Training program for blind individuals.
The State licensing agency shall ensure that effective programs of vocational and other training services, including personal and vocational adjustment, books, tools, and other training materials, shall be provided to blind individuals as vocational rehabilitation services under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516). Such programs shall include on-the-job training in all aspects of vending facility operation for blind persons with the capacity to operate a vending facility, and upward mobility training (including further education and additional training or retraining for improved work opportunities) for all blind licensees. The State licensing agency shall further ensure that post-employment services shall be provided to blind vendors as vocational rehabilitation services as necessary to assure that the maximum vocational potential of such vendors is achieved and suitable employment is maintained within the State's vending facility program.
§ 395.12
Access to program and financial information.
Each blind vendor under this part shall be provided access to all financial data of the State licensing agency relevant to the operation of the State vending facility program, including quarterly and annual financial reports, provided that such disclosure does not violate applicable Federal or State laws pertaining to the disclosure of confidential information. Insofar as practicable, such data shall be made available in braille or recorded tape. At the request of a blind vendor State licensing agency staff shall arrange a convenient time to assist in the interpretation of such financial data.
§ 395.13
Evidentiary hearings and arbitration of vendor complaints.
(a) The State licensing agency shall specify in writing and maintain procedures whereby such agency affords an opportunity for a full evidentiary hearing to each blind vendor (which procedures shall also apply to cases under § 395.6(e)) dissatisfied with any State licensing agency action arising from the operation or administration of the vending facility program. When such blind vendor is dissatisfied with any action taken or decision rendered as a result of such hearing, he may file a complaint with the Secretary. Such complaint shall be accompanied by all available supporting documents, including a statement of the decision which was rendered and the reasons in support thereof.
(b) The filing of a complaint under paragraph (a) of this section with either the State licensing agency or the Secretary shall indicate consent by the blind vendor for the release of such information as is necessary for the conduct of a full evidentiary hearing or the hearing of an ad hoc arbitration panel.
(c) Upon receipt of a complaint filed by a blind vendor which meets the requirements established by the Secretary, the Secretary shall convene an ad hoc arbitration panel which shall, in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 5, subchapter II, give notice, conduct a hearing, and render its decision which shall be final and binding on the parties except that such decision shall be subject to appeal and review as a final agency action for purposes of the provisions of 5 U.S.C. chapter 7.
(d) The arbitration panel convened by the Secretary to hear the grievances of blind vendors shall be composed of three members appointed as follows:
(1) One individual designated by the State licensing agency;
(2) One individual designated by the blind vendor; and
(3) One individual not employed by the State licensing agency or, where
appropriate, its parent agency, who shall be jointly designated by the other members of the panel and who shall serve as chairman of the panel.
(e) If either the State licensing agency or the blind vendor fails to designate a member of an arbitration panel, the Secretary shall designate such member on behalf of such party.
(f) The decisions of an arbitration panel convened by the Secretary under this section shall be matters of public record and shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(g) The Secretary shall pay all reasonable costs of arbitration under this section in accordance with a schedule of fees and expenses which shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(h) The provisions of this section shall not require the participation of grantors of permits for the operation of vending facilities on property other than Federal property.
§ 395.14
The State Committee of Blind Vendors.
(a) The State licensing agency shall provide for the biennial election of a State Committee of Blind Vendors which, to the extent possible, shall be fully representative of all blind vendors in the State program on the basis of such factors as geography and vending facility type with a goal of providing for proportional representation of blind vendors on Federal property and blind vendors on other property. Participation by any blind vendor in any election shall not be conditioned upon the payment of dues or any other fees.
(b) The State Committee of Blind Vendors shall:
(1) Actively participate with the State licensing agency in major administrative decisions and policy and program development decisions affecting the overall administration of the State's vending facility program;
(2) Receive and transmit to the State licensing agency grievances at the request of blind vendors and serve as advocates for such vendors in connection with such grievances;
(3) Actively participate with the State licensing agency in the development and administration of a State system for the transfer and promotion of blind vendors;
(4) Actively participate with the State licensing agency in the development of training and retraining programs for blind vendors; and
(5) Sponsor, with the assistance of the State licensing agency, meetings and instructional conferences for blind vendors within the State.
§ 395.15
Use of nominee agreements.
(a) The State licensing agency may enter into an agreement whereby another agency or organization undertakes to furnish services to blind vendors. Such agreement shall be in writing and shall contain provisions which:
(1) Clearly insure the retention by the State licensing agency of full responsibility for the administration and operation of all phases of the program;
(2) Specify the type and extent of the services to be provided under such agreement;
(3) Provide that no set-aside charges will be collected from blind vendors except as specified in such agreement;
(4) Specify that no nominee will be allowed to exercise any function with respect to funds for the purchase of new equipment or for assuring a fair minimum of return to vendors, except to collect and hold solely for disposition in accordance with the order of the State licensing agency any charges authorized for those purposes by the licensing agency; and
(5) Specify that only the State licensing agency shall have control with respect to selection, placement, transfer, financial participation and termination of the vendors, and the preservation, utilization, and disposition of program assets.
(b) If the State licensing agency permits any agency or organization other than a vendor to hold any right, title to, or interest in vending facilities or stock, the arrangement shall be one permitted by State law and shall specify in writing that all such right, title to, or interest is held by such agency or organization as the nominee of the State licensing agency for program purposes and subject to the paramount right of the State licensing agency to direct and control the use, transfer,
and disposition of such vending facilities or stock.
§ 395.16
Permit for the establishment of vending facilities.
Prior to the establishment of each vending facility, other than a cafeteria, the State licensing agency shall submit an application for a permit setting forth the location, the amount of space necessary for the operation of the vending facility; the type of facility and equipment, the number, location and type of vending machines and other terms and conditions desired to be included in the permit. Such application shall be submitted for the approval of the head of the Federal property managing department, agency, or instrumentality. When an application is not approved, the head of the Federal property managing department, agency, or instrumentality shall advise the State licensing agency in writing and shall indicate the reasons for the disapproval.
§ 395.17
Suspension of designation as State licensing agency.
(a) If the Secretary has reason to believe that, in the administration of the program, there is a failure on the part of any State licensing agency to comply substantially with the Act and this part, he shall so inform such agency in writing, setting forth, in detail, the areas in which there is such failure and giving it a reasonable opportunity to comply.
(b) If, after the lapse of a reasonable time, the Secretary is of the opinion that such failure to comply still continues and that the State licensing agency is not taking the necessary steps to comply, he shall offer to such agency, by reasonable notice in writing thereto and to the chief executive of the State, an opportunity for a hearing before the Secretary (or person designated by the Secretary) to determine whether there is a failure on the part of such agency to comply substantially with the provisions of the Act and of this part.
(c) If it is thereupon determined that there is a failure on the part of such agency to comply substantially with the Act and this part, appropriate written notice shall be given to such agency and to the chief executive of the State suspending such agency's designation as licensing agency effective 90 days from the date of such notice. A copy of such written notice shall be given to each department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States responsible for the maintenance, operation, and protection of Federal property on which vending machines subject to the requirements of § 395.32 are located in the State. Upon the suspension of such designation, vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property due for accrual to the State licensing agency under § 395.32 shall be retained in escrow by such department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States responsible for the maintenance, operation and protection of the Federal property on which such vending machines are located, pending redesignation of the State licensing agency or rescission of the suspension under paragraph (e) of this section.
(d) If, before the expiration of such 90 days, the Secretary (or person designated by him) determines that the State licensing agency is taking the necessary steps to comply, he may postpone the effective date of such suspension for such time as he deems necessary in the best interest of the program.
(e) If, prior to the effective date of such suspension, the Secretary (or person designated by him) finds that there is no longer a failure on the part of the State licensing agency to comply substantially with the provisions of the Act and this part, he shall so notify the agency, the chief executive of the State, and each Federal department, agency, or instrumentality required to place funds in escrow under paragraph (c) of this section, in which event the suspension of the designation shall not become effective and the requirement to place funds in escrow shall be terminated.

# Subpart C—Federal Property Management
§ 395.30
The location and operation of vending facilities for blind vendors on Federal property.
(a) Each department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States in control of the maintenance, operation, and protection of Federal property shall take all steps necessary to assure that, wherever feasible, in light of appropriate space and potential patronage, one or more vending facilities for operation by blind licensees shall be located on all Federal property
Provided
that the location or operation of such facility or facilities would not adversely affect the interests of the United States. Blind persons licensed by State licensing agencies shall be given priority in the operation of vending facilities on any Federal property.
(b) Any limitation on the location or operation of a vending facility for blind vendors by a department, agency or instrumentality of the United States based on a finding that such location or operation or type of location or operation would adversely affect the interests of the United States shall be fully justified in writing to the Secretary who shall determine whether such limitation is warranted. A determination made by the Secretary concerning such limitation shall be binding on any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States affected by such determination. The Secretary shall publish such determination in the
Federal Register
along with supporting documents directly relating to the determination.
(c) Priority in the operation of vending facilities in areas administered by the National Park Service or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall be given to blind vendors. Priority in the awarding of contracts for the operation of concessions in such areas when such concessions provide accommodations, facilities, and services of a scope or of a character not generally available in vending facilities operated by blind vendors shall be given in accordance with the provisions of the Concession Policy Act (Pub. L. 98-249, 16 U.S.C. 1) or the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (Pub. L. 85-568, 42 U.S.C. 2473). The provisions of this part shall not apply when all accommodations, facilities, or services in such areas are operated by a single responsible concessioner.
§ 395.31
Acquisition and occupation of Federal property.
(a) Effective January 2, 1975, no department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States shall undertake to acquire by ownership, rent, or lease, or to otherwise occupy, in whole or in part, any building unless it is determined that such building includes a satisfactory site or sites for the location and operation of a vending facility by a blind vendor. In those cases where a purchase contract, an agreement to lease, or other similar commitment was entered into prior to January 2, 1975, the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply.
(b) Effective January 2, 1975, no department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, shall undertake to occupy, in whole or in part, any building which is to be constructed, substantially altered, or renovated, or in the case of a building which is occupied on January 2, 1975 by a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, no such department, agency, or instrumentality shall undertake to substantially alter or renovate such building, unless it is determined that the design for such construction, substantial alteration, or renovation includes a satisfactory site or sites for the location and operation of a vending facility by a blind vendor. In those cases where a design contract or other similar commitment was entered into prior to January 2, 1975, the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply. For purposes of this paragraph,
substantial alteration or renovation of a building
means a permanent material change in the floor area of such building which would render such building appropriate for the location and operation of a vending facility by a blind vendor.
(c) The determination that a building contains a satisfactory site or sites under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be made after consultation between the State licensing agency and the head of the department, agency, or
instrumentality of the United States which is planning to acquire or otherwise occupy such building. In order to make such determination, effective on the publication date of this part each such department, agency, or instrumentality shall provide to the appropriate State licensing agency written notice of its intention to acquire or otherwise occupy such building. Such written notice shall be by certified or registered mail with return receipt and shall be provided as early as practicable but no later than 60 days prior to such intended action. The written notice shall indicate that a satisfactory site or sites for the location and operation of a vending facility by blind persons is included in the plans for the building to be acquired or otherwise occupied and shall further assure that the State licensing agency shall be afforded the opportunity to determine whether such building includes a satisfactory site or sites for a vending facility. The written notice shall further assure that the State licensing agency, subject to the approval of the head of the Federal property managing department, agency, or instrumentality, shall be offered the opportunity to select the location and type of vending facility to be operated by a blind vendor prior to the completion of the final space layout of the building. The receipt of such written notice shall be acknowledged in writing promptly by the State licensing agency but no later than within 30 days and the State licensing agency shall indicate at that time whether it is interested in establishing a vending facility. A copy of the written notice to the State licensing agency and the State licensing agency's acknowledgement shall be provided to the Secretary.
(d) When, after a written notice has been provided under paragraph (c) of this section, the State licensing agency determines that the number of persons using the Federal property is or will be insufficient to support a vending facility, and the Secretary concurs with such determination, the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply. The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall also not apply when fewer than 100 Federal Government employees are or will be located during normal working hours in the building to be acquired or otherwise occupied or when such building contains less than 15,000 square feet of interior space to be utilized for Federal Government purposes in the case of buildings in which services are to be provided to the public.
(e) The operation of a vending facility established under pre-existing arrangements shall not be affected by the provisions of this section. The provisions of this section shall further not preclude future arrangements under which vending facilities to be operated by blind vendors may be established in buildings of a size or with an employee population less than that specified in paragraph (d) of this section:
Provided,
That both the State licensing agency and the Federal property managing department, agency or instrumentality concur in such establishment.
(f) Each department, agency, and instrumentality of the United States, when leasing property in privately owned buildings, shall make every effort to lease property capable of accommodating a vending facility. When, however, such department, agency, or instrumentality is leasing part of a privately owned building in which prior to the execution of the lease, the lessor or any of his tenants had in operation or had entered into a contract for the operation of a restaurant or other food facility in a part of the building not included in such lease and the operation of a vending facility by a blind vendor would be in proximate and substantial direct competition with such restaurant or other food facility, the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall not apply.
§ 395.32
Collection and distribution of vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property.
(a) The on-site official responsible for the Federal property of each property managing department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, in accordance with established procedures of such department, agency, or instrumentality, shall be responsible for the collection of, and accounting for, vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property under his
control and shall otherwise ensure compliance with the provisions of this section.
(b) Effective January 2, 1975, 100 per centum of all vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property which are in direct competition with a vending facility operated by a blind vendor shall accure to the State licensing agency which shall disburse such income to such blind vendor operating such vending facility on such property provided that the total amount of such income accruing to such blind vendor does not exceed the maximum amount determined under § 395.8(a). In the event that there is income from such vending machines in excess of the maximum amount which may be disbursed to the blind vendor under § 395.8(a), such additional income shall accrue to the State licensing agency for purposes determined in accordance with § 395.8(c).
(c) Effective January 2, 1975, 50 per centum of all vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property which are not in direct competition with a vending facility operated by a blind vendor shall accrue to the State licensing agency which shall disburse such income to the blind vendor operating such vending facility on such property. In the event that there is no blind vendor, such income shall accrue to the State licensing agency, except as indicated under paragraph (d) of this section. The total amount of such income disbursed to such blind vendor shall not exceed the maximum amount determined under § 395.8(a). In the event that there is income from such vending machines in excess of the maximum amount which may accrue to the blind vendor under § 395.8(a), such additional income shall accrue to the State licensing agency for purposes determined in accordance with § 395.8(c).
(d) Effective January 2, 1975, 30 per centum of all vending machine income from vending machines, which are not in direct competition with a vending facility operated by a blind vendor and which are on Federal property at which at least 50 per centum of the total hours worked on the premises occurs during a period other than normal working hours, shall accrue to the State licensing agency which shall disburse such income to the blind vendor operating a vending facility on such property. In the event that there is no blind vendor on such property, such income shall accrue to the State licensing agency. The total amount of such income disbursed to such blind vendor shall not exceed the maximum amount determined under § 395.8(a). In the event that there is income from such vending machines in excess of the maximum amount which may be disbursed to the blind vendor under § 395.8(a), such additional income shall accrue to the State licensing agency for purposes determined in accordance with § 395.8(c).
(e) The determination that a vending machine on Federal property is in direct competition with a vending facility operated by a blind vendor shall be the responsibility of the on-site official responsible for the Federal property of each property managing department, agency or instrumentality of the United States, subject to the concurrence of the State licensing agency.
(f) In the case of vending machine income which, prior to the effective date of this part, has been disbursed to a blind vendor by a property managing department, agency, or instrumentality from proceeds which accrued from operations subsequent to January 2, 1975, pursuant to agreements in effect prior to such time, such income may be deducted, at the discretion of such property managing department, agency or instrumentality, from vending machine income due to the State licensing agency under paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section.
(g) The collection of vending machine income and its disbursement to the appropriate State licensing agency shall be conducted on at least a quarterly basis.
(h) All arrangements pertaining to the operation of vending machines on Federal property not covered by contract with, or by permits issued to, State licensing agencies, shall be renegotiated upon the expiration of the existing contract or other arrangement for consistency with the provisions of this section.
(i) The provisions of this section shall not apply to income from vending
machines within operated retail sales outlets under the control of post exchange or ships' stores systems authorized under title 10 U.S.C.; to income from vending machines operated by the Veterans Canteen Service; or to income from vending machines not in direct competition with a blind vending facility at individual locations, installations, or facilities on Federal property the total of which at such individual locations, installations, or facilities does not exceed $3,000 annually.
(j) The provisions of this section shall not operate to preclude pre-existing or future arrangements, or regulations of departments, agencies, or instrumentalities of the United States, under which blind vendors or State licensing agencies may:
(1) Receive a greater percentage or amount of vending machine income than that specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, or
(2) Receive vending machine income from individual locations, installations, or facilities on Federal property the total of which at such individual locations, installations, or facilities does not exceed $3,000 annually.
§ 395.33
Operation of cafeterias by blind vendors.
(a) Priority in the operation of cafeterias by blind vendors on Federal property shall be afforded when the Secretary determines, on an individual basis, and after consultation with the appropriate property managing department, agency, or instrumentality, that such operation can be provided at a reasonable cost, with food of a high quality comparable to that currently provided employees, whether by contract or otherwise. Such operation shall be expected to provide maximum employment opportunities to blind vendors to the greatest extent possible.
(b) In order to establish the ability of blind vendors to operate a cafeteria in such a manner as to provide food service at comparable cost and of comparable high quality as that available from other providers of cafeteria services, the appropriate State licensing agency shall be invited to respond to solicitations for offers when a cafeteria contract is contemplated by the appropriate property managing department, agency, or instrumentality. Such solicitations for offers shall establish criteria under which all responses will be judged. Such criteria may include sanitation practices, personnel, staffing, menu pricing and portion sizes, menu variety, budget and accounting practices. If the proposal received from the State licensing agency is judged to be within a competitive range and has been ranked among those proposals which have a reasonable chance of being selected for final award, the property managing department, agency, or instrumentality shall consult with the Secretary as required under paragraph (a) of this section. If the State licensing agency is dissatisfied with an action taken relative to its proposal, it may file a complaint with the Secretary under the provisions of § 395.37.
(c) All contracts or other existing arrangements pertaining to the operation of cafeterias on Federal property not covered by contract with, or by permits issued to, State licensing agencies shall be renegotiated subsequent to the effective date of this part on or before the expiration of such contracts or other arrangements pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(d) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, Federal property managing departments, agencies, and instrumentalities may afford priority in the operation of cafeterias by blind vendors on Federal property through direct negotiations with State licensing agencies whenever such department, agency, or instrumentality determines, on an individual basis, that such operation can be provided at a reasonable cost, with food of a high quality comparable to that currently provided employees:
Provided, however,
That the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall apply in the event that the negotiations authorized by this paragraph do not result in a contract.
§ 395.34
Application for permits.
Applications for permits for the operation of vending facilities other than cafeterias shall be made in writing on the appropriate form, and submitted for the review and approval of the head
of the Federal property managing department, agency, or instrumentality.
§ 395.35
Terms of permit.
Every permit shall describe the location of the vending facility including any vending machines located on other than the facility premises and shall be subject to the following provisions:
(a) The permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant State licensing agency which shall:
(1) Prescribe such procedures as are necessary to assure that in the selection of vendors and employees for vending facilities there shall be no discrimination because of sex, race, age, creed, color, national origin, physical or mental disability, or political affiliation; and
(2) Take the necessary action to assure that vendors do not discriminate against any person or persons in furnishing, or by refusing to furnish, to such person or persons the use of any vending facility, including any and all services, privileges, accommodations, and activities provided thereby, and comply with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and regulations issued pursuant thereto.
(b) The permit shall be issued for an indefinite period of time subject to suspension or termination on the basis of compliance with agreed upon terms.
(c) The permit shall provide that:
(1) No charge shall be made to the State licensing agency for normal cleaning, maintenance, and repair of the building structure in and adjacent to the vending facility areas;
(2) Cleaning necessary for sanitation, and the maintenance of vending facilities and vending machines in an orderly condition at all times, and the installation, maintenance, repair, replacement, servicing, and removal of vending facility equipment shall be without cost to the department, agency, or instrumentality responsible for the maintenance of the Federal property; and
(3) Articles sold at vending facilities operated by blind licensees may consist of newspapers, periodicals, publications, confections, tobacco products, foods, beverages, chances for any lottery authorized by State law and conducted by an agency of a State within such State, and other articles or services as are determined by the State licensing agency, in consultation with the on-site official responsible for the Federal property of the property managing department, agency or instrumentality, to be suitable for a particular location. Such articles and services may be dispensed automatically or manually and may be prepared on or off the premises in accordance with all applicable health laws.
(d) The permit shall further provide that vending facilities shall be operated in compliance with applicable health, sanitation, and building codes or ordinances.
(e) The permit shall further provide that installation, modification, relocation, removal, and renovation of vending facilities shall be subject to the prior approval and supervision of the on-site official responsible for the Federal property of the property managing department, agency, or instrumentality, and the State licensing agency; that costs of relocations initiated by the State licensing agency shall be paid by the State licensing agency; and that costs of relocations initiated by the department, agency, or instrumentality shall be borne by such department, agency, or instrumentality.
(f) The operation of a cafeteria by a blind vendor shall be covered by a contractual agreement and not by a permit.
§ 395.36
Enforcement procedures.
(a) The State licensing agency shall attempt to resolve day-to-day problems pertaining to the operation of the vending facility in an informal manner with the participation of the blind vendor and the on-site official responsible for the property of the property managing department, agency, or instrumentality as necessary.
(b) Unresolved disagreements concerning the terms of the permit, the Act, or the regulations in this part and any other unresolved matters shall be reported in writing to the State licensing agency supervisory personnel by the Regional or other appropriate official of the Federal property managing department, agency, or instrumentality in an attempt to resolve the issue.
§ 395.37
Arbitration of State licensing agency complaints.
(a) Whenever any State licensing agency determines that any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States which has control of the maintenance, operation, and protection of Federal property is failing to comply with the provisions of the Act or of this part and all informal attempts to resolve the issues have been unsuccessful, such licensing agency may file a complaint with the Secretary.
(b) Upon receipt of a complaint filed under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary shall convene an ad hoc arbitration panel which shall, in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ch. 5, subchapter II, give notice, conduct a hearing and render its decision which shall be final and binding on the parties except that such decision shall be subject to appeal and review as a final agency action for purposes of the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ch. 7. The arbitration panel convened by the Secretary to hear complaints filed by a State licensing agency shall be composed of three members appointed as follows:
(1) One individual designated by the State licensing agency;
(2) One individual designated by the head of the Federal department, agency, or instrumentality controlling the Federal property over which the dispute arose; and
(3) One individual, not employed by the Federal department, agency, or instrumentality controlling the Federal property over which the dispute arose, who shall be jointly designated by the other members of the panel and who shall serve as chairman of the panel.
(c) If either the State licensing agency or the head of the Federal department, agency, or instrumentality fails to designate a member of an arbitration panel, the Secretary shall designate such member on behalf of such party.
(d) If the panel finds that the acts or practices of any department, agency, or instrumentality are in violation of the Act or of this part, the head of any such department, agency, or instrumentality (subject to any appeal under paragraph (b) of this section) shall cause such acts or practices to be terminated promptly and shall take such other action as may be necessary to carry out the decision of the panel.
(e) The decisions of an arbitration panel convened by the Secretary under this section shall be matters of public record and shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(f) The Secretary shall pay all reasonable costs of arbitration under this section in accordance with a schedule of fees and expenses which shall be published in the
Federal Register.
§ 395.38
Reports.
At the end of each fiscal year, each property managing department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States shall report to the Secretary the total number of applications for vending facility locations received from State licensing agencies, the number accepted, the number denied, the number still pending, the total amount of vending machine income collected and the amount of such vending machine income disbursed to the State licensing agency in each State.
Pt. 396

# PART 396—TRAINING OF INTERPRETERS FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DEAF OR HARD OF HEARING AND INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DEAF-BLIND

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
396.1
What is the Training of Interpreters for Individuals Who Are Deaf or Hard of Hearing and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind program?
396.2
Who is eligible for an award?
396.3
What regulations apply?
396.4
What definitions apply?
396.5
What activities may the Secretary fund?
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—How Does One Apply for an Award?
396.20
What must be included in an application?

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make an Award?
396.30
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?
396.31
What additional selection criteria are used under this program?
396.32
What additional factors does the Secretary consider in making awards?
396.33
What priorities does the Secretary apply in making awards?
396.34
What are the matching requirements?

# Authority:
Sections 12(c) and 302(a) and (f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(a) and (f), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55625, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 396.1
What is the Training of Interpreters for Individuals Who Are Deaf or Hard of Hearing and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind program?
The Training of Interpreters for Individuals Who Are Deaf or Hard of Hearing and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind program is designed to establish interpreter training programs or to provide financial assistance for ongoing interpreter programs to train a sufficient number of qualified interpreters throughout the country in order to meet the communication needs of individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and individuals who are deaf-blind by—
(a) Training interpreters to effectively interpret and transliterate between spoken language and sign language and to transliterate between spoken language and oral or tactile modes of communication;
(b) Ensuring the maintenance of the interpreting skills of qualified interpreters; and
(c) Providing opportunities for interpreters to raise their skill level competence in order to meet the highest standards approved by certifying associations.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(a) and (f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(a) and (f))
§ 396.2
Who is eligible for an award?
Public and private nonprofit agencies and organizations, including institutions of higher education, are eligible for assistance under this program.
(Authority: Section 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 772(f))
§ 396.3
What regulations apply?
The following regulations apply to the Training of Interpreters for Individuals Who Are Deaf or Hard of Hearing and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind program:
(a) 34 CFR part 385 (Rehabilitation Training), sections—
(1) 385.3(a) and (d);
(2) 385.40 through 385.46; and
(b) The regulations under this part 396.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(f))
§ 396.4
What definitions apply?
(a)
Definitions in EDGAR.
The following terms defined in 34 CFR 77.1 apply to this part:
Applicant
Application
Award
Equipment
Grant
Nonprofit
Private
Project
Public
Secretary
Supplies
(b)
Definitions in the rehabilitation training regulations.
The following terms defined in 34 CFR 385.4(b) apply to this part:
Individual With a Disability
Institution of Higher Education
(c)
Other definitions.
The following definitions also apply to this part:
Existing program that has demonstrated its capacity for providing interpreter training services
means an established program with—
(i) A record of training qualified interpreters who are serving the deaf, hard of hearing, and deaf-blind communities; and
(ii) An established curriculum that uses evidence-based practices in the training of interpreters and promising practices when evidence-based practices are not available.
Individual who is deaf
means an individual who, in order to communicate, depends primarily upon visual modes, such as sign language, speech reading, and gestures, or reading and writing.
Individual who is deaf-blind
means an individual—
(i)(A) Who has a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with corrective lenses, or a field defect such that the peripheral diameter of visual field subtends an angular distance no greater than 20 degrees, or a progressive visual loss having a prognosis leading to one or both of these conditions;
(B) Who has a chronic hearing impairment so severe that most speech cannot be understood with optimum amplification, or a progressive hearing loss having a prognosis leading to this condition; and
(C) For whom the combination of impairments described in paragraphs (i)(A) and (B) of this definition causes extreme difficulty in attaining independence in daily life activities, achieving psychosocial adjustment, or obtaining a vocation;
(ii) Who, despite the inability to be measured accurately for hearing and vision loss due to cognitive or behavioral constraints, or both, can be determined through functional and performance assessment to have severe hearing and visual disabilities that cause extreme difficulty in attaining independence in daily life activities, achieving psychosocial adjustment, or obtaining vocational objectives; or
(iii) Who meets any other requirements that the Secretary may prescribe.
Individual who is hard of hearing
means an individual who, in order to communicate, needs to supplement auditory information by depending primarily upon visual modes, such as sign language, speech reading, and gestures, or reading and writing.
Interpreter for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing
means a qualified professional who uses sign language skills, cued speech, or oral interpreting skills, as appropriate to the needs of individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing, to facilitate communication between individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and other individuals.
Interpreter for individuals who are deaf-blind
means a qualified professional who uses tactile or other manual language or fingerspelling modes, as appropriate to the needs of individuals who are deaf-blind, to facilitate communication between individuals who are deaf-blind and other individuals.
Novice Interpreter
means an interpreter who has graduated from an interpreter education program or enters the field through an alternate pathway, is at the start of his or her professional career with some level of proficiency in American Sign Language, and is working toward becoming a qualified professional.
Qualified professional
means an individual who has—
(i) Met existing certification or evaluation requirements equivalent to the highest standards approved by certifying associations; and
(ii) Successfully demonstrated interpreting skills that reflect the highest standards approved by certifying associations through prior work experience.
Related agency
means—
(i) An American Indian rehabilitation program; or
(ii) Any of the following agencies that provide services to individuals with disabilities under an agreement or other arrangement with a designated State agency in the area of specialty for which training is provided:
(A) A Federal, State, or local agency.
(B) A nonprofit organization.
(C) A professional corporation or professional practice group.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended and Section 206 of Pub. L. 98-221; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(f) and 29 U.S.C 1905)
§ 396.5
What activities may the Secretary fund?
The Secretary may award grants to public or private nonprofit agencies or organizations, including institutions of higher educations, to provide assistance for establishment of interpreter training programs or for projects that provide training in interpreting skills for persons preparing to serve, and persons who are already serving, as interpreters for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing, and as interpreters for individuals who are deaf-blind in public and private agencies, schools, and other service-providing institutions.
(Authority: Section 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 772(f))
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—How Does One Apply for an Award?
§ 396.20
What must be included in an application?
Each applicant shall include in the application—
(a) A description of the manner in which the proposed interpreter training program will be developed and operated during the five-year period following the award of the grant;
(b) A description of the communication needs for training interpreters for the population(s) or in the geographical area(s) to be served by the project;
(c) A description of the applicant's capacity or potential for providing training of interpreters for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and interpreters for individuals who are deaf-blind that is evidence-based, and based on promising practices when evidence-based practices are not available;
(d) An assurance that any interpreter trained or retrained under this program shall meet those standards of competency for a qualified professional, that the Secretary may establish;
(e) An assurance that the project shall cooperate or coordinate its activities, as appropriate, with the activities of other projects funded under this program;
(f) The descriptions required in 34 CFR 385.45 with regard to the training of individuals with disabilities, including those from minority groups, for rehabilitation careers; and
(g) Such other information as the Secretary may require.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1820-0018)
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 21(c), and 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 718(c), and 772(f))

# Subpart D—How Does the Secretary Make an Award?
§ 396.30
How does the Secretary evaluate an application?
(a) The Secretary evaluates applications under the procedures in 34 CFR part 75.
(b) The Secretary evaluates each application using selection criteria in § 396.31.
(c) In addition to the selection criteria described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary evaluates each application using—
(1) Selection criteria in 34 CFR 75.210;
(2) Selection criteria established under 34 CFR 75.209; or
(3) A combination of selection criteria established under 34 CFR 75.209 and selection criteria in 34 CFR 75.210.
(Authority: Section 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 772(f))
§ 396.31
What additional selection criteria are used under this program?
In addition to the criteria in 34 CFR 396.30(c), the Secretary uses the following additional selection criterion to evaluate an application. The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which—
(a) The proposed interpreter training project was developed in consultation with State Vocational Rehabilitation agencies and their related agencies and consumers;
(b) The training is appropriate to the needs of both individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and individuals who are deaf-blind and to the needs of public and private agencies that provide services to either individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing or individuals who are deaf-blind in the geographical area to be served by the training project;
(c) Any curricula for the training of interpreters includes evidence-based practices and promising practices when evidence-based practices are not available;
(d) There is a working relationship between the interpreter training project and State Vocational Rehabilitation agencies and their related agencies, and consumers; and
(e) There are opportunities for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing
and individuals who are deaf-blind to provide input regarding the design and management of the training project.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(f))
§ 396.32
What additional factors does the Secretary consider in making awards?
In addition to the selection criteria listed in § 396.31 and 34 CFR 75.210, the Secretary, in making awards under this part, considers the geographical distribution of projects throughout the country, as appropriate, in order to best carry out the purposes of this program. To accomplish this, the Secretary may in any fiscal year make awards of regional or national scope.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(f))
§ 396.33
What priorities does the Secretary apply in making awards?
(a) The Secretary, in making awards under this part, gives priority to public or private nonprofit agencies or organizations, including institutions of higher education, with existing programs that have demonstrated their capacity for providing interpreter training.
(b) In announcing competitions for grants and contracts, the Secretary may give priority consideration to—
(1) Increasing the skill level of interpreters for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and individuals who are deaf-blind in unserved or underserved populations or in unserved or underserved geographic areas;
(2) Existing programs that have demonstrated their capacity for providing interpreter training services that raise the skill level of interpreters in order to meet the highest standards approved by certifying associations; and
(3) Specialized topical training based on the communication needs of individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and individuals who are deaf-blind.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 302(f)(1)(C) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(f)(1)(C))
§ 396.34
What are the matching requirements?
A grantee must contribute to the cost of a project under this program in an amount satisfactory to the Secretary. The part of the costs to be borne by the grantee is determined by the Secretary at the time of the grant award.
(Authority: Section 12(c) and 302(f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 772(f))
Pt. 397

# PART 397—LIMITATIONS ON USE OF SUBMINIMUM WAGE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
397.1
Purpose.
397.2
What is the Department of Education's jurisdiction under this part?
397.3
What rules of construction apply to this part?
397.4
What regulations apply?
397.5
What definitions apply?

# Subpart B—Coordinated Documentation Procedures Related to Youth with Disabilities
397.10
What documentation process must the designated State unit develop?

# Subpart C—Designated State Unit Responsibilities Prior to Youth with Disabilities Starting Subminimum Wage Employment
397.20
What are the responsibilities of a designated State unit to youth with disabilities who are known to be seeking subminimum wage employment?

# Subpart D—Local Educational Agency Responsibilities Prior to Youth with Disabilities Starting Subminimum Wage Employment
397.30
What are the responsibilities of a local educational agency to youth with disabilities who are known to be seeking subminimum wage employment?
397.31
What are the contracting limitations on educational agencies under this part?

# Subpart E—Designated State Unit Responsibilities to Individuals with Disabilities During Subminimum Wage Employment
397.40
What are the responsibilities of a designated State unit for individuals with disabilities, regardless of age, who are employed at subminimum wage?

# Subpart F—Review of Documentation
397.50
What is the role of the designated State unit in the review of documentation under this part?

# Authority:
Section 511 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 794g, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
81 FR 55785, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 397.1
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this part is to set forth requirements the designated State units and State and local educational agencies must satisfy to ensure that individuals with disabilities, especially youth with disabilities, have a meaningful opportunity to prepare for, obtain, maintain, advance in, or regain competitive integrated employment, including supported or customized employment.
(b) This part requires—
(1) A designated State unit to provide youth with disabilities documentation demonstrating that they have completed certain requirements, as described in this part, prior to starting subminimum wage employment with entities (as defined in § 397.5(d)) holding special wage certificates under section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 214(c));
(2) A designated State unit to provide, at certain prescribed intervals for the duration of such employment, career counseling and information and referral services, designed to promote opportunities for competitive integrated employment, to individuals with disabilities, regardless of age, who are known to be employed at subminimum wage; and
(3) A designated State unit, in consultation with the State educational agency, to develop a process or utilize an existing process, to document completion of required activities under this part by a youth with a disability known to be seeking employment at subminimum wage.
(c) This part authorizes a designated State unit, or a representative of a designated State unit, to review individual documentation required to be maintained by these entities under this part.
(d) The provisions in this part work in concert with requirements in 34 CFR parts 300, 361, and 363, and do not alter any requirements under those parts.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 511 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794g)
§ 397.2
What is the Department of Education's jurisdiction under this part?
(a) The Department of Education has jurisdiction under this part to implement guidelines for—
(1) Documentation requirements imposed on designated State units and local educational agencies, including the documentation process that the designated State unit must develop in consultation with the State educational agency;
(2) Requirements related to the services that designated State units must provide to individuals regardless of age who are employed at subminimum wage; and
(3) Requirements under § 397.31.
(b) Nothing in this part will be construed to grant to the Department of Education, or its grantees, jurisdiction over requirements set forth in the Fair Labor Standards Act, including those imposed on entities holding special wage certificates under section 14(c) of that Act, which is administered by the Department of Labor.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 511(b)(3), 511(c), and 511(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 709(c), 794g(b)(3), 794g(c), and 794g(d))
§ 397.3
What rules of construction apply to this part?
Nothing in this part will be construed to—
(a) Change the purpose of the Rehabilitation Act, which is to empower individuals with disabilities to maximize opportunities for achieving competitive integrated employment;
(b) Promote subminimum wage employment as a vocational rehabilitation strategy or employment outcome, as defined in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(15); or
(c) Be inconsistent with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act,
as amended before or after July 22, 2014.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 511(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794g(b))
§ 397.4
What regulations apply?
(a) The regulations in 34 CFR part 300 governing the definition of transition services, and the Individualized Education Program requirements related to the development of postsecondary goals and the transition services needed to assist the eligible child in reaching those goals (§§ 300.320(b), 300.321(b), 300.324(c), and 300.43).
(b) The regulations in 34 CFR part 361 governing the vocational rehabilitation program, especially those regarding protection and use of personal information in 34 CFR 361.38; eligibility determinations in 34 CFR 361.42; individualized plans for employment in 34 CFR 361.45 and 34 CFR 361.46; provision of vocational rehabilitation services, including pre-employment transition services, transition services, and supported employment services in 34 CFR 361.48; ineligibility determinations in 34 CFR 361.43; informed choice in 34 CFR 361.52; and case closures in 34 CFR 361.56.
(c) The regulations in 29 CFR part 525 governing the employment of individuals with disabilities at subminimum wage rates pursuant to a certificate issued by the Secretary of Labor.
(d) The regulations in this part 397.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 102(a) and (b), 103(a), and 113 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 722(a) and (b), 723(a), and 733; sections 601(34) and 614(d)(1)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401(34) and 1414(d)); and section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 214(c))
§ 397.5
What definitions apply?
(a) The following terms have the meanings given to them in 34 CFR 361.5(c):
(1) Act;
(2) Competitive integrated employment;
(3) Customized employment;
(4) Designated State unit;
(5) Extended services;
(6) Individual with a disability;
(7) Individual with a most significant disability;
(8) Individual's representative;
(9) Individualized plan for employment;
(10) Pre-employment transition services;
(11) Student with a disability;
(12) Supported employment;
(13) Vocational rehabilitation services; and
(14) Youth with a disability.
(b) The following terms have the meanings given to them in 34 CFR part 300:
(1) Local educational agency (§ 300.28);
(2) State educational agency (§ 300.41); and
(3) Transition services (§ 300.43).
(c) The following terms have the meanings given to them in 29 CFR 525.3 and section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)):
(1)
Federal minimum wage
has the meaning given to that term in section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)); and
(2)
Special wage certificate
means a certificate issued to an employer under section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 214(c)) and 29 CFR part 525 that authorizes payment of subminimum wages, wages less than the statutory minimum wage.
(d)
Entity
means an employer, or a contractor or subcontractor of that employer, that holds a special wage certificate described in section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 214(c)).
(Authority: Sections 7, 12(c), and 511(a) and (f) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705, 709(c), and 794g(a) and (f); sections 601 and 614(d) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. 1401 and 1414(d); section 901 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, 20 U.S.C. 7801; and sections 6(a)(1) and 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1) and 29 U.S.C. 214(c))

# Subpart B—Coordinated Documentation Procedures Related to Youth with Disabilities
§ 397.10
What documentation process must the designated State unit develop?
(a) The designated State unit, in consultation with the State educational agency, must develop a new process, or utilize an existing process, to document the completion of the actions described in § 397.20 and § 397.30 by a youth with a disability, as well as a process for the transmittal of that documentation from the educational agency to the designated State unit, consistent with confidentiality requirements of the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g(b) and 34 CFR 99.30 and 99.31) and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1417(c) and 34 CFR 300.622).
(1) Such documentation must, at a minimum, contain the—
(i) Youth's name;
(ii) Determination made, including a summary of the reason for the determination, or description of the service or activity completed;
(iii) Name of the individual making the determination or the provider of the required service or activity;
(iv) Date determination made or required service or activity completed;
(v) Signature of the designated State unit or educational personnel making the determination or documenting completion of the required services or activity;
(vi) Date of signature described in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section;
(vii) Signature of designated State unit personnel transmitting documentation to the youth with a disability; and
(viii) Date and method (
e.g.,
hand-delivered, faxed, mailed, emailed, etc.) by which document was transmitted to the youth.
(2) In the event a youth with a disability or, as applicable, the youth's parent or guardian, refuses, through informed choice, to participate in the activities required by this part, such documentation must, at a minimum, contain the—
(i) Youth's name;
(ii) Description of the refusal and the reason for such refusal;
(iii) Signature of the youth or, as applicable, the youth's parent or guardian;
(iv) Signature of the designated State unit or educational personnel documenting the youth's refusal;
(v) Date of signatures; and
(vi) Date and method (
e.g.,
hand-delivered, faxed, mailed, emailed, etc.) by which documentation was transmitted to the youth.
(3) The documentation process must include procedures for the designated State unit to retain a copy of all documentation required by this part in a manner consistent with the designated State unit's case management system and the requirements of 2 CFR 200.333.
(b) The documentation process must ensure that—
(1) A designated State unit provides, in the case of a student with a disability, documentation of completion of appropriate pre-employment transition services, in accordance with § 361.48(a) of this chapter and as required by § 397.20(a)(1);
(2) In the case of a student with a disability, for actions described in § 397.30—
(i) The appropriate school official, responsible for the provision of transition services, must provide the designated State unit documentation of completion of appropriate transition services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, including those provided under section 614(d)(1)(A)(i)(VIII) (20 U.S.C. 1414(d)(1)(A)(i)(VIII));
(ii) The designated State unit must provide documentation of completion of the transition services, as documented and provided by the appropriate school official in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, to the youth with a disability.
(c) The designated State unit must provide—
(1) Documentation required by this part in a form and manner consistent with this part and in an accessible format for the youth; and
(2)(i) Documentation required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section to a youth as soon as possible upon the
completion of each of the required actions, but no later than—
(A) 45 calendar days after the determination or completion of the required activity or service; or
(B) 90 calendar days, if additional time is necessary due to extenuating circumstances, after the determination or completion of each of the required actions in § 397.20 and § 397.30(a). Extenuating circumstances should be interpreted narrowly to include circumstances such as the unexpected lengthy absence of the educational or designated State unit personnel necessary for the production of the documentation or the transmittal of that documentation due to illness or family emergency, or a natural disaster.
(ii) Documentation required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, when a youth has refused to participate in an action required by this part, must be provided to the youth within 10 calendar days of the youth's refusal to participate.
(3) When transmitting documentation of the final determination or activity completed, as required by § 397.20 and § 397.30(a), the designated State unit must provide a coversheet that itemizes each of the documents that have been provided to the youth.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 511(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794g(d))

# Subpart C—Designated State Unit Responsibilities Prior to Youth With Disabilities Starting Subminimum Wage Employment
§ 397.20
What are the responsibilities of a designated State unit to youth with disabilities who are known to be seeking subminimum wage employment?
(a) A designated State unit must provide youth with disabilities documentation upon the completion of the following actions:
(1)(i) Pre-employment transition services that are available to a student with a disability under 34 CFR 361.48; or
(ii) Transition services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.
), such as transition services available to the individual under section 614(d) of that Act (20 U.S.C. 1414(d));
(2) Application for vocational rehabilitation services, in accordance with 34 CFR 361.41(b), with the result that the individual was determined—
(i) Ineligible for vocational rehabilitation services, in accordance with 34 CFR 361.43; or
(ii) Eligible for vocational rehabilitation services, in accordance with 34 CFR 361.42; and
(A) The youth with a disability had an approved individualized plan for employment, in accordance with 34 CFR 361.46;
(B) The youth with a disability was unable to achieve the employment outcome specified in the individualized plan for employment, as described in 34 CFR 361.5(c)(15) and 361.46, despite working toward the employment outcome with reasonable accommodations and appropriate supports and services, including supported employment services and customized employment services, for a reasonable period of time; and
(C) The youth with a disability's case record, which meets all of the requirements of 34 CFR 361.47, is closed.
(3)(i) Regardless of the determination made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the youth with a disability has received career counseling, and information and referrals from the designated State unit to Federal and State programs and other resources in the individual's geographic area that offer employment-related services and supports designed to enable the individual to explore, discover, experience, and attain competitive integrated employment.
(ii) The career counseling and information and referral services provided in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section must—
(A) Be provided by the designated State unit in a manner that facilitates informed choice and decision-making by the youth, or the youth's representative as appropriate;
(B) Not be for subminimum wage employment by an entity defined in § 397.5(d), and such employment-related services are not compensated at a subminimum wage and do not directly result in employment compensated at a
subminimum wage provided by such an entity; and
(C) Be provided within 30 calendar days of a determination under paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section for a youth known by the designated State unit to be seeking employment at subminimum wage.
(b) The following special requirements apply—
(1) For purposes of this part, all documentation provided by a designated State unit must satisfy the requirements for such documentation, as applicable, under 34 CFR part 361.
(2) The individualized plan for employment, required in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, must include a specific employment goal consistent with competitive integrated employment, including supported or customized employment.
(3)(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, a determination as to what constitutes a “reasonable period of time” must be consistent with the disability-related and vocational needs of the individual, as well as the anticipated length of time required to complete the services identified in the individualized plan for employment.
(ii) For an individual whose specified employment goal is in supported employment, such reasonable period of time is up to 24 months, unless under special circumstances the individual and the rehabilitation counselor jointly agree to extend the time to achieve the employment outcome identified in the individualized plan for employment.
(Authority: Sections 7(5), 7(39), 12(c), 102(a) and (b), 103(a), 113, and 511(a) and (d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 705(5), 705(39), 709(c), 722(a) and (b), 723(a), 733, and 794g(a) and (d))

# Subpart D—Local Educational Agency Responsibilities Prior to Youth With Disabilities Starting Subminimum Wage Employment
§ 397.30
What are the responsibilities of a local educational agency to youth with disabilities who are known to be seeking subminimum wage employment?
(a) Of the documentation to demonstrate a youth with a disability's completion of the actions described in § 397.20(a), a local educational agency, as defined in § 397.5(b)(1), must provide the designated State unit with documentation that the youth has received transition services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.
), such as transition services available to the individual under section 614(d) of that Act (20 U.S.C. 1414(d)). The documentation must be provided to the designated State unit in a manner that complies with confidentiality requirements of the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g(b) and 34 CFR 99.30 and 99.31) and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1417(c) and 34 CFR 300.622).
(b)(1) The documentation of completed services or activities required by paragraph (a) of this section must, at a minimum, contain the—
(i) Youth's name;
(ii) Description of the service or activity completed;
(iii) Name of the provider of the required service or activity;
(iv) Date required service or activity completed;
(v) Signature of educational personnel documenting completion of the required service or activity;
(vi) Date of signature described in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section; and
(vii) Signature of educational personnel transmitting documentation to the designated State unit; and
(viii) Date and method (
e.g.,
hand-delivered, faxed, mailed, emailed, etc.) by which document was transmitted to the designated State unit.
(2) In the event a youth with a disability or, as applicable, the youth's
parent or guardian, refuses, through informed choice, to participate in the activities required by this part, such documentation must, at a minimum, contain the—
(i) Youth's name;
(ii) Description of the refusal and the reason for such refusal;
(iii) Signature of the youth or, as applicable, the youth's parent or guardian;
(iv) Signature of the educational personnel documenting the youth's refusal;
(v) Date of signatures required by paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this section;
(vi) Signature of educational personnel transmitting documentation of the refusal to the designated State unit; and
(vii) Date and method (
e.g.,
hand-delivered, faxed, mailed, emailed, etc.) by which documentation was transmitted to the designated State unit.
(c)(1)(i) The educational personnel must transmit the documentation required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the designated State unit as soon as possible upon the completion of each of the required actions, but no later than—
(A) 30 calendar days after the completion of the required activity or service; or
(B) 60 calendar days, if additional time is necessary due to extenuating circumstances, after the completion of each of the required actions in paragraph (a) of this section. Extenuating circumstances should be interpreted narrowly to include the unexpected lengthy absence due to illness or family emergency of the educational personnel necessary to produce or transmit the documentation, or a natural disaster.
(ii) Documentation required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section, when a youth has refused to participate in an action required by this part, must be provided to the DSU within 5 calendar days of the youth's refusal to participate.
(2) When the educational personnel transmits the last documentation to the designated State unit regarding the services provided to the youth under paragraph (a) of this section, the educational personnel must provide a cover sheet that itemizes the documentation that has been provided to the designated State unit regarding that youth.
(d) The educational agency must retain a copy of all documentation provided to the designated State unit under this section in a manner consistent with the requirements of 2 CFR 200.333.
(Authority: Sections 12(c), 511(a)(2)(A), and 511(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c), 794g(a)(2)(A), and (d))
§ 397.31
What are the contracting limitations on educational agencies under this part?
Neither a local educational agency, as defined in § 397.5(b)(1), nor a State educational agency, as defined in § 397.5(b)(2), may enter into a contract or other arrangement with an entity, as defined in § 397.5(d), for the purpose of operating a program for a youth under which work is compensated at a subminimum wage.
(Authority: Section 511(b)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 794g(b)(2))

# Subpart E—Designated State Unit Responsibilities to Individuals With Disabilities During Subminimum Wage Employment
§ 397.40
What are the responsibilities of a designated State unit for individuals with disabilities, regardless of age, who are employed at a subminimum wage?
(a)
Counseling and information services.
(1) A designated State unit must provide career counseling and information and referral services, as described in § 397.20(a)(3), to individuals with disabilities, regardless of age, or the individual's representative as appropriate, who are known by the designated State unit to be employed by an entity, as defined in § 397.5(d), at a subminimum wage level.
(2) A designated State unit may know of an individual with a disability described in this paragraph through the vocational rehabilitation process, self-referral, or by referral from the client assistance program, another
agency, or an entity, as defined in § 397.5(d).
(3) The career counseling and information and referral services must be provided in a manner that—
(i) Is understandable to the individual with a disability; and
(ii) Facilitates independent decision-making and informed choice as the individual makes decisions regarding opportunities for competitive integrated employment and career advancement, particularly with respect to supported employment, including customized employment.
(4) The career counseling and information and referral services provided under this section may include benefits counseling, particularly with regard to the interplay between earned income and income-based financial, medical, and other benefits.
(b)
Other services.
(1) Upon a referral by an entity, as defined in § 397.5(d), that has fewer than 15 employees, of an individual with a disability who is employed at a subminimum wage by that entity, a designated State unit must also inform the individual within 30 calendar days of the referral by the entity, of self-advocacy, self-determination, and peer mentoring training opportunities available in the community.
(2) The services described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must not be provided by an
entity
as defined in § 397.5(d).
(c)
Required intervals.
(1) For individuals hired at subminimum wage on or after July 22, 2016, the services required by this section must be carried out once every six months for the first year of the individual's subminimum wage employment and annually thereafter for the duration of such employment.
(2) For individuals already employed at subminimum wage prior to July 22, 2016, the services required by this section must be carried out once by July 22, 2017, and annually thereafter for the duration of such employment.
(3)(i) With regard to the intervals required by paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for purposes of the designated State unit's responsibilities to provide certain services to individuals employed at subminimum wage, the applicable intervals will be calculated based upon the date the individual becomes known to the designated State unit.
(ii) An individual with a disability may become “known” to the designated State unit through self-identification by the individual with a disability, referral by a third-party (including an
entity
as defined in § 397.5(d)), through the individual's involvement with the vocational rehabilitation process, or any other method.
(d)
Documentation.
(1)(i) The designated State unit must provide documentation to the individual as soon as possible, but no later than—
(A) 45 calendar days after completion of the activities required under this section; or
(B) 90 calendar days, if additional time is necessary due to extenuating circumstances, after the completion of the required actions in this section. Extenuating circumstances should be interpreted narrowly to include circumstances such as the unexpected lengthy absence of the designated State unit personnel, due to illness or other family emergency, who is responsible for producing or transmitting the documentation to the individual with a disability, or a natural disaster.
(ii) Documentation required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section, when an individual has refused to participate in an activity required by this section, must be provided to the individual within 10 calendar days of the individual's refusal to participate.
(2) Such documentation must, at a minimum, contain the—
(i) Name of the individual;
(ii) Description of the service or activity completed;
(iii) Name of the provider of the required service or activity;
(iv) Date required service or activity completed;
(v) Signature of individual documenting completion of the required service or activity;
(vi) Date of signature described in paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section;
(vii) Signature of designated State unit personnel (if different from that in paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section) transmitting documentation to the individual with a disability; and
(viii) Date and method (
e.g.,
hand-delivered, faxed, mailed, emailed, etc.) by which document was transmitted to the individual.
(3) In the event an individual with a disability or, as applicable, the individual's representative, refuses, through informed choice, to participate in the activities required by this section, such documentation must, at a minimum, contain the—
(i) Name of the individual;
(ii) Description of the refusal and the reason for such refusal;
(iii) Signature of the individual or, as applicable, the individual's representative;
(iv) Signature of the designated State unit personnel documenting the individual's refusal;
(v) Date of signatures; and
(vi) Date and method (
e.g.,
hand-delivered, faxed, mailed, emailed, etc.) by which documentation was transmitted to the individual.
(4) The designated State unit must retain a copy of all documentation required by this part in a manner consistent with the designated State unit's case management system and the requirements of 2 CFR 200.333.
(e)
Provision of services.
Nothing in this section will be construed as requiring a designated State unit to provide the services required by this section directly. A designated State unit may contract with other entities,
i.e.,
other public and private service providers, as appropriate, to fulfill the requirements of this section. The contractor providing the services on behalf of the designated State unit may not be an entity holding a special wage certificate under section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 214(c)) as defined in 397.5(d).
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 511(c) and (d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794g(c) and (d))

# Subpart F—Review of Documentation
§ 397.50
What is the role of the designated State unit in the review of documentation under this part?
(a) The designated State unit, or a contractor working directly for the designated State unit, is authorized to engage in the review of individual documentation required under this part that is maintained by an
entity,
as defined in 397.5(d), under this part. The contractor referred in this section may not be an entity holding a special wage certificate under section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 214(c)).
(b) If deficiencies are noted during a documentation review conducted under paragraph (a) of this section, the designated State unit should report the deficiency to the U.S. Department of Labor's Wage and Hour Division.
(Authority: Sections 12(c) and 511(e)(2)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 709(c) and 794g(e)(2)(B))
PARTS 398-399 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2024)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Grants and Agreements
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2024)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
34 CFR (7-1-24 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2019 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2019
34 CFR
84 FR
Page
Chapter III
Chapter III Policy statement
39727, 39736, 47433
2020
34 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter III
Chapter III Policy statement
36329, 41379, 45525, 46538, 47651, 47656, 47664, 47668, 52920
Chapter III Waivers
39833, 47915, 49965, 57693
300 Notification
13523
300 Interpretation
31374
361 Policy statement
11848
361 Notification
13523
361 Comment period extended
33021
363 Notification
13523
367 Notification
13523
381 Notification
13523
2021
34 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter III
Chapter III Policy statement
14374, 19135, 32770, 36656
Chapter III Notification
39965
2022
34 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter III
Chapter III Policy statement
35415
361 Interpretation
15889
2023
34 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter III
Chapter III Policy statement
45340
Chapter III Notification
48129
Chapter III Waiver
67953, 67955
2024
(Regulations published from January 1, 2024, through July 1, 2024)
34 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter III
361.155 (a)(1)(vi) and (c)(6) revised
13848
361.190 (c) revised
13848
○
